i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-13	Mr President, I would like to Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me why I and the government prioritise these state preparedness jobs instead of jobs created by demand in the RUT industry. The government has invested in the RUT deduction by extending it to more sectors. Since 1 August this year, the RUT deduction also includes additional gardening, floating and IT services. Following the Government's proposal in the 2017 Budget Bill, the RUT deduction from the end of the year will also include repairs and maintenance of white goods. The Swedish Tax Agency's latest data indicate that the use of the RUT deduction is the highest ever. It is positive that people get a job in the regular labour market. While developments in the Swedish economy and in the labour market are very positive, there are still challenges due, among other things, to last year's record refugee reception. A significant proportion of newcomers who are now going to enter the labour market have a short education. For these people, a job with a subsidy can be a possible way into the labour market. Experience shows that it is mainly private companies that have used subsidised employment. The government believes that it is now time for the state, through the state authorities, to assume its responsibilities and offer jobs with lower qualification requirements to give more people who are far from the labour market a future job, work experience and salary. There are a number of tasks within the state authorities that are currently not carried out at all. Modern preparedness jobs in the state should consist of tasks with lower qualification requirements that are not currently carried out at all or to an insufficient extent.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-17	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for the answer to my interpellation, which I have written for various reasons. There is much discussion about everything from emergency work to other government-designed labour market efforts, which need not be so bad in all situations. However, the government has a target of 500 in 2017 and 5,000 by 2020. If those jobs will develop in the same way as other reforms that the government has launched, such as 35 000 promised standby jobs that became a couple of hundred after more than half the term of office has passed, it is not as good for those to whom the jobs relate. At the same time, we have seen that the reform of the RUT deduction has created many new jobs and new companies. For many people this means the first job, and for many it is also the first job in Sweden. The RUT deduction will cover more sectors. It's a good thing for the government that the Alliance is making demands. This issue was not driven by the government, and the government's budget partner, the Left Party, pursued a line that was quite the opposite. The government has reduced the amount of the RUT deduction. Right should be right. Therefore, the Moderates propose a triple in the RUT deduction budget. This proposal is not just because it is fun, but because we have seen that RUT gives effect, results, jobs and a way into the labour market for people who have been far removed from the labour market for a long time. We can certainly see that Sweden is doing well and especially for those who are close to the labour market and have it easy, but at the same time we see that those who are far from the labour market become more numerous and end up even further away from the labour market. I therefore find it difficult to understand why people choose to put gunpowder on state preparedness jobs rather than on real jobs in a growing industry. With the help of the RUT deduction, this industry has gone from being largely black to being white. The number of RUT deductions has increased constantly since it was introduced. But now we can see that the number is not increasing to the same extent, and there are clear indications from the industry that there is a concern about having to make cuts. It is therefore a question of 500 state preparedness jobs in 2017 and 5,000 by 2020. This should be in combination with trainee jobs and other things that have not been delivered. In addition, the so-called employment phase is being phased out. It has been replaced by exclusion rather than employment. What we can see from the government is a constant policy that leads to fewer jobs. All independent assessors make the assessment that the Government's budget leads to fewer jobs in Sweden. I would like to hear a little more from the Minister on these issues.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-24	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by reproducing an independent judge. The credit rating agency Moodys yesterday presented an assessment of Sweden. It was said that Sweden stands out as a country that has done virtually everything right in terms of increasing growth. Sweden is an oasis in a troubled world with a strong development in the labour market. There are other rankings where Sweden ends up very high when it comes to the willingness to invest and innovation power. There is a very high rate of investment in private business today. This shows confidence in the economic policy pursued by the government. It is therefore not true that a large number of independent assessors would condemn Swedish employment policy. On the contrary! The reality shows that there is a strong growth of new jobs, and Sweden is deemed to be a country with very strong competitiveness and with a good policy for growth. The most important thing is to create new real jobs in both the private and public sectors. This is happening at a very good pace at the moment. 120 000 more people have a job since this government took office. But there are also major challenges. These challenges have changed since the time of the alliance government to the present situation. When the old government ruled it was very high youth unemployment. Young people with upper secondary education also found it difficult to find a job. It's not like that anymore. Youth unemployment is falling very rapidly. In principle, young people with upper secondary skills will normally find employment soon. However, there is a new group with many new arrivals with very low and poor school background. This is, of course, a particular challenge when it comes to entering the Swedish labour market. The RUT deduction is a subsidy granted in the form of tax deductions, and it goes mainly to the private sector. That reform has been successful. The government is expanding, and RUT continues to grow. That's where a lot of people get their first job. People with lower qualifications can also enter the labour market that way. That's good! When I talk to private employers, they often say that they are happy to take responsibility for creating jobs for those who are far from the labour market. They welcome subsidies in the form of, for example, RUT deductions in order to improve the economy in this. They also say that the state must clean up its own door. The state is the worst at hiring people who are far from the labour market. We can't have that. That is why we are also setting up modern state preparedness jobs in order for the state to do its part to help also those who are far from the labour market get a job and a salary to earn a living on.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-32	Mr President, I would like to I just said that Sweden is doing well in many areas. We're in a boom. We had a responsible alliance government for eight years. Just read all the assessments that were made; it was not that the Finance Minister and other ministers were particularly criticized internationally during the then global financial crisis. There is still an important difference, Ylva Johansson, when we now have a boom. We see an increase in exclusion and an increasing number of people are far removed from the labour market while those who are close to the labour market get jobs. There's a difference when you have a global financial crisis. We know what it looked like in our surrounding world, where we saved ourselves from the crisis, while Sweden, through what we have done, had so stable finances that we could actually invest ourselves out of the crisis. One important thing was the job tax deductions, which Ylva Johansson and her party colleagues at each occasion chose to vote against: 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. But when you have to take responsibility for the country, you realize that they cannot be abolished, because they were good. It is fun that Ylva Johansson now says such positive things about the RUT deduction, because if you go back in history, neither social democrats, left-wing parties nor for that matter Ylva Johansson has personally praised the RUT deduction. There was talk of pig deductions and everything else that you didn't want. However, what you are doing now is undermining it in terms of money. On the other hand, the Alliance managed to put pressure on the government and make sure that it is extended to more areas, and I think it is very good that the government is in on it. So there are positive things about us being able to make agreements with the government, and that is why we are doing so while waiting for us to come into government. It is probably not a case of condemning Sweden as a country, but Sweden is still a good country. But it is de facto the case that when the government budget was presented, the independent assessors – if I do not remember correctly also the Financial Policy Council – meant that it would lead to fewer jobs. And when, at this time, you present a budget that is judged to lead to fewer jobs, you should probably be on guard. What the government is also doing is raising taxes. You make it more expensive and more risky to hire. In this respect, I see that it is more difficult for those who are far from the labour market in particular. It is good if the state, municipalities and county councils assume their responsibilities; municipalities and county councils usually belong to the largest employers. At the same time, most jobs are created in the private sector. In the RUT industry there are many people with low education who have been far from the labour market, are young and have come to Sweden recently. It worries me that instead of prioritising the RUT deduction and improving and simplifying it, priority is given to state preparedness jobs. I do not think that will solve the problems we face.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-41	Mr President, I would like to The concern of the Moderates is that their assessments rarely come true. It was said that if the social security contribution for young people were restored to a normal level instead of spending 20 billion per year on inefficient subsidies, youth unemployment would increase. We did, and youth unemployment has fallen. It was said that decent compensation for the unemployed in unemployment insurance would increase unemployment. We raised the ceiling in the unemployment fund and unemployment continues to fall. It has repeatedly wondered who will want to hire in Stefan Lövven Sweden, the Sweden that is governed by this red-green government. It is quite clear that very many people want to hire: 120 000 more people have jobs, and we have over 100 000 job vacancies, of which a majority are difficult to fill. There is obviously a pressing need for people with the right skills; many obviously want to employ. So the problem of the Moderates is that their doomsday prophecies do not prove to be in harmony with reality. It was the case, Christian Holm Barenfeld, that there was a surplus in public finances of 70 billion when you took over government power. You then handed over with a minus of 60 billion. That's the truth of your government's position. Now, 2015 and 2016, we have delivered surplus government finances despite Sweden receiving more refugees in 2015 than any OECD country has ever done, and despite the fact that we have made record-breaking efforts to strengthen welfare with 10 new welfare billions. We manage to both hold the money and ensure that we can invest in jobs and welfare. Mr President, I would like to Christian Holm Barenfeld is obviously dissatisfied with the Social Democracy in opposition. There we are in fact in agreement; I also think that the Social Democracy is much better in government than in opposition.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-47	Mr President, I would like to I think there may be shortcomings in the Social Democrats when they are in opposition, but I will do my utmost to allow them to return to that position in the future. But that is another thing, and we can also have a fiscal debate here on many different issues. Now we are in a boom, and there is some difference compared to when one has gone through the biggest global financial crisis in modern times. After all, that was what happened at the end of the Alliance's first term of office and then dominated quite a lot during the second. At the same time, the Alliance actually invested. We made sure that the worker kept more of his salary in his wallet, something that the government with Ylva Johansson – so far – still leaves behind. But we also grazed the public debt heavily. It is not gold and green forests today either, but there are many signs of concern in the state economy. If we focus on the labour market and the reports we see, we can see that unemployment is now falling in many areas, mainly due to the economic boom, but not for those who are far from it. At the same time, the indications are that this will not continue, but unemployment is starting to rise again at the end of the mandate. This is worrying, especially if there is a situation in which the government repeatedly presents proposals that make it less profitable to work and more profitable not to work, while also making it more difficult, more expensive and less attractive to run and set up a business and to hire. That worries me, and I think we should discuss this even more in the future.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-52	Mr President, I would like to It is also necessary, I believe, to have a discussion on economic policy when discussing jobs. Labour market policy will never be the solution to unemployment. There must be an economic policy and a coherent policy for strong growth and new jobs so that employers can and want to experience a lot of labour – it is A and O. Labour market policy also has its role to play in helping people to find work and in helping employers to find people with the right skills. But economic growth is absolutely necessary. It is not so, as Christian Holm Barenfeld wants to claim, that Sweden only rides on a wave. I come back again to the credit rating agency Moodys, who said yesterday that Sweden stands out in comparison with other countries by doing basically everything right, in area by area, in terms of creating growth. It does not give a picture of Sweden as slipping along with all the other countries that are doing well. Moodys also says that Sweden is like an oasis in a troubled world, where companies actually dare to invest. So yes, we have a boom, but the government is also pursuing the right policy so that we can take advantage of the boom and create as many jobs as possible. We have a very strong development, but it does not benefit everyone. Therefore, targeted efforts are also needed, such as subsidies for RUT services and subsidies for state-of-the-art preparedness jobs.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-57	Mr President, I would like to Christian Barenfeld has asked me what impact the new delegation will have on breaking long-term unemployment and making it easier for newcomers to get to work. The rapidly growing number of participants in the employment agency's start-up assignments means that the number in the labour force that has been in the country for a short time will increase. As it may take longer for newcomers to enter the labour market, this situation may counteract a decline in unemployment. The situation in which Sweden finds itself presents both challenges and opportunities. The government has identified a number of areas that need to be developed and strengthened in order to build a society that holds together and to counter segregation. These are long-term reforms, such as investment in jobs, education, housing, welfare and equality. In order to break segregation mechanisms and highlight socially vulnerable areas, the Government has initiated a reform programme that will run between 2017 and 2025. The reform programme contains five areas of development, one of which is the reduction of long-term unemployment. In 2017, the Government intends to appoint a delegation that will work to create jobs, reduce overcrowding and with other measures for improved welfare. The delegation's development work is only part of the government's efforts to combat long-term unemployment. Work is the key to the establishment of new arrivals in Sweden. Work provides, in addition to self-sufficiency, opportunities to develop knowledge of the Swedish language and of Swedish society. Since the government took office, employment has increased by 120 000 people. More than half of the growth has occurred among foreign born children. Despite good development, it is problematic that an increasing proportion of the unemployed are in a weak position on the labour market and are thus at risk of falling into long-term unemployment. This applies, in particular, to people born outside Europe and those who do not have completed upper secondary education. In the case of new arrivals, it is particularly important that the overall measures for reception and establishment work well. The government has taken steps and intends to take further measures to increase the opportunities for newcomers to enter the labour market. Among other things, the target group for both train ee jobs and career introductions has expanded so that newcomers can also take part in the initiatives. In order to strengthen the incentives for developing new arrivals' language skills and for more people to be able to get a job, the entry-level jobs have been developed so that the support can be combined with several types of education in Swedish. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Agency for Growth to support the development of models that can increase employers' tendency to hire new arrivals and people who have been out of work for a long time. The mission is part of the government's efforts to create the conditions for more simple jobs and easier ways to work in the business world. In addition, the Government has commissioned government authorities to accept newly arrived job seekers for internships. In addition, through the proposals in the budget proposal for 2017, the government opens up new opportunities for work for new arrivals through, among other things, modern preparedness jobs in the state and an extension of additional services. The guarantee programmes and new start-up jobs will be made more effective. The lack of a driving licence is too many an obstacle to jobs. The Government has therefore decided to investigate the possibility of a loan for driving licence training with the intention of implementing the proposal during its term of office. The start-up efforts will also be improved by improving the efficiency of the start-up assignment, strengthening resources for the Public Employment Service and increased collaboration for the establishment of new arrivals. The education system must also be able to meet people with extensive training needs and equip them with the skills needed in the labour market. In order to strengthen people's job opportunities and improve matching in the labour market, the government has launched a new knowledge boost with an initiative that has been fully expanded to include approximately 70 000 places. The Government has also invested in increased resources for supplementary education for people with completed foreign education. Overall, the government has taken and proposed several different measures to facilitate the establishment of new arrivals in the labour market but also to prevent and prevent people from falling into long-term unemployment.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-66	Mr President, I would like to In this debate, too, I should like to start by thanking you for the answer to my interpellation. I wrote it when I read statistics from Arbetsförmedlingen at the end of last year, where we could see that long-term unemployment in Sweden is increasing. We know that the challenges of integrating many of the new arrivals in Sweden are very great. Without the right efforts, long-term unemployment risks being stuck at very high levels. In the government, it is the Minister of Labour and Establishment who is responsible for labour market policy issues and the establishment of newcomers. As the Minister said in his reply, the Government intends to appoint a delegation in 2017 to help reverse the development of vulnerable areas – a delegation that will work to create jobs, reduce overcrowding and with other measures to improve well-being. In an interpellation debate that I had with the co-ordination minister Ibrahim Baylan last November, he made it clear that the delegation will work, among other things, to crack long-term unemployment. I would like to know: what impact will the new delegation have on breaking long-term unemployment and making it easier for newcomers to get to work? Are there any calculations – numbers and numbers – about how many new arrivals the government believes will come to work through this effort? The Social Democrats and Ylva Johansson were very clear about the election to promise reforms and results. However, it has been a bit varied with the delivery, to put it nicely and diplomatically. In the answer, too, the government mentions extra services and other things. There were supposed to be 32,000 trainee jobs delivered during the term of office. By December, when more than half the term of office had passed, it had been 245. That would be 20 000 additional posts, which would then be extended. It may not be necessary just yet, because only 1 662 people have actually received extra services. The fast track for the establishment of new arrivals with training or special skills has been introduced, which is a good thing. Unfortunately, however, only a microscopic proportion of the new arrivals participate in this. In addition, the employment phase is being phased out. You can do that in itself, but then it is important that you have an alternative, and there is no such thing. The result is therefore that those who have been in the employment phase are readjusted to passivity and exclusion. There's a lot to wish for there. In addition, we have the RUT deduction, which we discussed in the previous interpellation debate. We know that all these elements are important for more people to get into work among those who are far removed from the labour market. At the same time, however, we see that it does not produce results. I mean, 245 out of 32,000 can barely get up to approval, right? How have Ylva Johansson and the government discussed what the goals are, and what calculations and investigations have been made to ensure that there will be a workshop and delivery and not more of trainee jobs air castles, which sound good at a press conference but have a low impact on those for whom they are really intended and who are in great need of entering the labour market?
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-73	Mr President, I would like to It must be hard to be moderate and try to find things to bring up. It is clear that Sweden has problems, so I'm not saying that negative things cannot be found in our society, but the development is very clearly going in the right direction. Then you try to find another way to describe reality. The truth is that when we took office, there was a huge amount of youth unemployment. It was so high that Sweden received EU support to overcome it – other countries in the European Union paid for Sweden because we were unable to solve and crack youth unemployment ourselves. It was embarrassing, I think, that Sweden should have to end up there. Now we are in a situation where youth unemployment is falling rapidly. We have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years, and that is clearly in the right direction. No one is happier than I am that many young people do not need a labour market policy measure but get a job anyway. As I said in our previous debate, economic policy is absolutely crucial. Labour market policy also plays a role, but it is crucial that there is a demand for labour in society, and it does. Private investment is very high and public investment is also very high. We also promised a fall in unemployment overall. That's what we're delivering. That is exactly what is happening: unemployment is falling despite the fact that we have very many new entrants to the labour market. Although many of them do not have the qualifications normally required in the labour market, we have a falling unemployment rate, which is very gratifying. We in the government are thus delivering on our most important election promises. It's quite clear. We can look at those who find it most difficult to get to work. Some of them are new arrivals, of course, but not all new arrivals. Many have lived in Sweden for a long time. Some have never entered the labour market – that has been the case for many years. We know, from both research and experience, that the collaboration is A and O when solving the situation for those people. Then you can't work in drain pipes. Then you have to get different actors to pull in the same direction and gather around the individual's conditions, problems and opportunities. This may include, for example, the municipality working together with Arbetsförmedlingen. Sometimes a housing company is involved. This could be about Försäkringskassan. This could be about the non-profit sector. It could be folk high schools and other educational providers. The solutions look a little different. But what is distinctive is very often that you can work together and use the resources together so that people do not fall between the chairs. This is where the delegation comes in – it has not yet been appointed. What it is about is not to take over all the work that is already being done, which is to be done and which needs to be done even better by, for example, Arbetsförmedlingen, but to ensure that resources can be coordinated even better. As far as young people are concerned, we have already launched such cooperation – one can say that it is inspired by the Delegation for Young People to Work. However, in some areas with the greatest social challenges, even more needs to be done. That's where this delegation comes in. It is a question of making more use of the resources already invested.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-79	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to the importance of economic policy and growth in order for jobs to become more, I share, perhaps unlike the government's cooperation parties, Ylva Johansson's picture. Growth is something we must have. It is extremely important for jobs to exist. It is not labour market policy that creates jobs. However, it may in some ways be a lubricant. But it's still troubling. Now we talk a lot about people who are far from the labour market. As we have said many times before, this is the case: for those who are close to the labour market, those who have low thresholds, those who have good education and those who are established on the labour market in our country, there are currently no major problems. However, when it comes to those who have not been on the labour market or who have been outside the labour market for a long time or those, a rather large amount, who have come to Sweden in recent years, we see that exclusion is increasing. They're getting more; they're getting close to the million. If we do not do something quite drastic and fast, the risk is that the situation will get worse. In addition, many other challenges, which may not be on the table of the Committee on Employment, are at risk. I have absolutely no objection to the appointment of a delegation. The reason I wrote the interpellation was that it has been a little unclear exactly what it will lead to and how the government has thought. I just wanted to know what the government was thinking, whether there is a goal and if you look at the very many people who are very far from the labour market. We can have targets for unemployment overall and so on, but it is important that we ensure that those who do not have a job and those who have not had a job get out to work. There I think the government leaves some things to be desired. I think a number of other proposals are directly counterproductive. Again, I think it is extremely important for the government to start delivering on job creation measures. It is not unusual – and it is not unreasonable – that the government and the Social Democrats criticise proposals that come from the Moderates and choose to make other proposals. But it is true that only the Alliance government's job tax deductions in the first year led to more new jobs than all the current government's labour market policies, reforms and programmes have led to. Maybe you don't have to tell the numbers again. But it is a fact that it is microscopic parts of the promises that Ylva Johansson, Stefan Löfven and others in the Social Democrats made prior to the 2014 elections that they have now delivered, for example 245 out of 35 000 trainee jobs.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-86	Mr President, I would like to It is not true that we are always criticising opposition proposals. Sometimes the opposition has good proposals. Then we'll take them to heart. That is how a good government should act, I think. There are many areas where Sweden feels good from a broader collaboration. It is also good that parties can compromise to implement what Sweden needs. I think that's good, and I think you should work. I say it again – I have said it many times: the government has no self-interest in having as many young people as possible in a labour market policy measure. When youth unemployment is rapidly reduced by young people getting jobs on the regular labour market, I think it is better than having a labour market policy measure in the form of a trainee job. This is nothing I grieve. But, Mr President, I come back to the fact that I also want to understand the policy of the Moderates in order to really know how you think. Then I would like to take this opportunity to ask Christian Holm Barenfeld a question. It is a question that I have not yet received an answer from the Moderates. These are the incentives for those who are far from the labour market and who are unemployed. The Moderates argue that the newcomer in Sweden who is unemployed and participates in the establishment mission should be able to receive double compensation. In other words, you should be able to take a job and get a full salary while retaining your entire remuneration in the start-up assignment. It would provide incentives for people to take a job. In the case of unemployed people who receive unemployment benefit, the unemployment benefit fund, the Moderates argue in favour of reducing the compensation for them. So you're supposed to lower the roof, so they get less money. It would provide incentives for more unemployed people to take a job. I can understand the theoretical reasoning behind both thoughts. But what I don't understand is how you can have them at the same time. What, in fact, is the Moderate view of incentives for the unemployed to get to work? Is it good that you can get double compensation, so to speak, or is it good that you have low compensation?
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-91	Mr President, I would like to It is a good thing that the government is not against everything that the opposition says. We deliver a lot of good suggestions where I would like to get support from the government. Among other things, it is a matter of ensuring that exclusion is reduced and that those who are far removed from the labour market enter the labour market. We want to carry out a first job employment. I think it would be good if the government could restore and possibly increase the amounts in the RUT deduction. You can reduce the costs and taxes of hiring. And it's about rules when it comes to running a business. Above all, we can refrain from the harmful proposals and harmful tax increases which lead to fewer jobs than more. As far as incentives are concerned, it is reasonable for the grant to be reduced when you have an income. But the problem is that we end up in situations where there are extremely large marginal effects. In some cases it is directly unprofitable to take a job. Maybe that's not the case in an extremely large number of cases. But there are cases where taking a job is disadvantageous. There are cases where it is not profitable at all. Then there are cases where there is a very low profitability in going from not working to working. It's one of the parts. The important part, as we say, is that wherever you are, it should always be more profitable to work than not to work. Then the Swedish systems are quite extensive and quite complicated. This makes it a bit different suggestions in different parts. But the foundation should be that you should get more money in your wallet when you take a job. That's what the Alliance keeps...
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-94	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Christian Holm Barenfeld, for the answer, but there are still questions. It is, of course, the case today that it is in any case worthwhile taking up a job compared to getting a start-up allowance, unemployment benefit or other support, except in the case of part-time stamps. But we are in the process of solving this so that it is always worth taking a job there too, because I think it is an important incentive. Working should always pay off, but it is also important that we always make demands on people to work. It shouldn't be a free choice if you're going to take a job or if you're going to live on some other kind of livelihood. It's not. All people who can work must work, so it is not just an incentive issue. We voted in December on the Moderates' proposal, which meant that if you have compensation from the start-up assignment you should not only be able to work extra without being affected – it is today – but you should also be able to take full-time work without affecting the remuneration. I think it is very unfortunate with this kind of double signal, as if people who are newly arrived in Sweden would need other types of incentives than those who have lived here for longer. I think exactly the opposite: we should have the same system as possible, and I will come back to Parliament with more proposals that equate so that we can make the same demands on new arrivals as we do on all the other unemployed and, of course, also offer the same kind of support and opportunities to get help to get into work.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-98	Mr President, I would like to Helén Pettersson has asked me whether I intend to make changes to the LAS so that the legislation once again protects the employment of Sweden's employees. Annelie Karlsson has asked me whether I intend to take measures to ensure that LAS once again protects the employment of employees. The questions raised by the interpellants are in the light of the recent judgment of the Labour Court, where a number of employees in a store were offered continued employment in a work shortage situation but with a lower working time measure – so-called planing. One of the starting points of the Swedish labour market model is that the employer has the right to manage and distribute the work. At the same time, the Swedish model also means that workers' organisations have a great opportunity and responsibility to ensure that workers' interests are taken into account, for example in a work shortage situation. In the event of a shortage of work, the employer is obliged to offer, if possible, reasonable relocation before dismissal may take place, in accordance with LAS. An offer of redeployment does not need to be made in turn and may result in deteriorating conditions, for example in the form of a lower working time measure. If, on the other hand, termination actually takes place, the employer must apply the order rules in LAS. Full time must be the norm in the labour market. Everyone who works in Sweden should be able to live on their salary. I therefore take seriously when individuals find themselves in a situation where they find it difficult to make a living and plan their future, even though they are working. This applies not least to women who work part-time to a greater extent than men. A risk of planing is that it can have a negative impact on the employment and adaptability of the Swedish labour market, if employees are forced to fall in working time without the real possibility of replacing lost working time with other work. Non-use of the potential labour supply leads to socio-economic losses. In view of the functioning of the Swedish model, it is my hope that the social partners will find an appropriate solution to the issue. The government is following the development of the issue of planing close. I have also recently invited the social partners concerned to inform me more about the situation.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-106	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Thus, the concept that we are discussing means that employers reduce working time for employees in general in a workplace. Otherwise, it has been normal for job shortages to call the union to negotiate the cuts it needs to make, and the basis for these negotiations is the order of business in LAS, the Employment Protection Act. This is like the backbone of Swedish labour market legislation. This is what insures employees against employers' discretion. It is the law that gives the security to be able to point out shortcomings and problems in a workplace without you having to be the first to go for a lack of work. It's the law that provides security in employment, we thought. Job shortages and redundancies will always occur in the labour market. But the law has been the guarantor that it is done in an orderly manner. Thus, with the new interpretation of the Labour Court, the plan of working time can take place without a trade union negotiation and without regard to the rules of rotation, without any order. Thus, for the workers affected by this, there is no longer any security to be found in the law and no rules to lean against. I believe that this is a major gap that has been exposed in the legislation. The employees who are affected have very little or nothing to resist when this happens. According to the Labour Court, Hyvling is now treated as a relocation, and we know that you refuse a relocation, you lose your employment, and you also get a pension in the unemployment fund. No one can afford to say no. In my opinion, lack of work is the only reasonable way to look at the need to reduce the number of hours worked in a workplace, and then it will be negotiated. It makes no sense to look at it differently. The Swedish model is fundamentally based on legislation and, in addition, collective agreements between the parties. Legislation is a foundation that applies to everyone in the Swedish labour market. Collective agreements apply to the workplaces where such agreements exist. Today, there are some different figures on how many people work at workplaces without collective agreements in Sweden, but low estimates are probably around 500 000 who work at workplaces without agreements. Then the law is the only regulation. Therefore, handing this matter over to the parties may, and I really think possibly, help those who work in workplaces covered by collective agreements. But there are quite a few who will stand outside. The possibility of negotiating strong wordings on job security in collective agreements also varies from industry to industry. I welcome the fact that the Minister has invited the social partners to discuss how they can move forward and get wording on this, but I still believe that the basic security of the Employment Protection Act needs to be strengthened.
i-PeAUiWG8aqdPVAN8qtyJxo	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson! What the Labour Court ruling shows is that current legislation only protects employment as such and not the number of hours. This has not only been experienced by trade workers, but also by others since the judgment came to light at the end of November. Employers choose to do a reorganisation, and they can arbitrarily halve the position of the person you want to get rid of without any consideration of how long the person has worked and without giving any time for the individual to change his or her mind. This now allows our legislation, and in my view that is completely unreasonable, as Mr Pettersson also described in his speech. We know that the trade unions concerned will do what they can to regulate the issue with their counterparts in their collective agreements. But what matters is that what the legislator allows is also the responsibility of the legislator. The companies that, as Mr Pettersson explained, because of conscious decisions or ignorance outside the collective agreement model, will be allowed to plan the hours of their employees in a way that might perhaps be prohibited by future collective agreements. The up 15% of employees in the private labour market who do not have collective agreements could thus render them unlawful. Over half a million employees would be unprotected. The legislator lays the bottom plate, and the parties are based on. That's the order we have. If negotiations are to include new wordings in the agreement, I guess that is an issue on which the parties will not fully agree. After all, it is shown in practice that employers have had a desire to do these planings, and that means in the negotiation that the trade unions may have to sell something else to get this into collective agreements. That is how negotiations work in practice. I find it unreasonable that the trade unions should now have to fight to get back the order to which the legislature has been entitled since the 1970s. Legislation has served us well. It has created order and it has provided security in that employees have the same conditions. As legislators, we have had no ambition whatsoever to change that part, at least not us Social Democrats. The Labour Court, on the other hand, has given us reason to review the law now. It must be strengthened in order to once again be a protection for employees. The Employment Protection Act must be the Employment Protection Act – not just the Employment Act, which it has come to be after this judgment. I hope that we can agree both on the description of the problems and on the need to remedy this.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-123	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mrs Pettersson and Annelie Karlsson, for asking a very important question! The judgment in AD has upset many and is a matter under discussion right now. I have, of course, taken note of the judgment. I have no reason whatsoever to review or comment on it, but it is quite clear that there are different perspectives that one might say a little clashes with each other. On the one hand, a reorganisation cannot always provide a job with the same or equivalent conditions as the previous one. That's pretty obvious. On the other hand, it is, of course, unfortunate in a situation of labour shortages that experienced workers do not enter the labour market. We now have a situation in Sweden with over 100,000 vacancies. Here and now we talk a lot about trade. In commerce, employers show how difficult it is to train new staff all the time. You'd like more experienced staff to hire. It is clear that in a situation where experienced staff instead work fewer hours, the other hours do not benefit the individual either in terms of salary and income or in terms of the labour market in the form of experienced labour who can perform work. I think the situation is worrying, and there is certainly reason to discuss this issue. Before I go further in my assessment, I would like to speak to the interested parties, not least those who have been involved in the current judgment and who have led to the interpellations. I have therefore asked to meet the Federation of Trade Employees, the KFO and the Swedish Commerce Federation. They will all come to me on different occasions to discuss, and I look forward to seeing their views on the situation and on challenges and opportunities in the industry, but also how to look forward to future ways forward in order to use the workforce as well as possible but also to provide the individual with good opportunities for security and livelihood.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-128	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. I very much welcome the talks and the initiative taken by the Minister for talks with the parties. As the Minister says, the debate has come to be very much about trade. I would like to make a contribution: this is a bigger issue than trade. There are more industries, such as the real estate industry and hotels and restaurants, and there is nothing to prevent this being applied to just any workplace because it is a ruling from the Labour Court that applies generally to the Swedish labour market. More parties probably need to be involved in this. Another point that the Minister mentions in his reply is that this is also an obvious issue of gender equality. In those industries where planing has already become a concept known, many women work there. They have lower wages, more of temporary employment and worse employment conditions than in many other parts of the Swedish labour market. Planing not only has a direct effect in terms of less income this month or the future, but will also have an impact on future pensions, and these effects will be significant. The only way to deal with the large differences between men and women in terms of pensions is to get to grips with it already for those who are in work so that women and men have the same conditions there. It's a dimension that you need to take with you into these conversations. I would also like to emphasise what Annelie Karlsson points out in her speech about what happens when new issues are included in collective agreements. This is done at the expense of something else because it is a giving and a taking. I find it difficult to defend the sale of any of the rights that have been negotiated under various sectoral agreements in order to close a hole in legislation that we in this locality are responsible for ensuring that it is as strong as it is intended to be. It's also a gift. If the legislation does not block planing, it is acceptable that workers in certain parts of the Swedish labour market are completely without job security. It is to accept that arbitrariness is becoming more widespread in the workplace and that many people become completely dependent on trying to work extra hours with their employer in order to get their daily lives together and get a reasonable income and therefore always have to be at the disposal of the employer. That is not at all how I see a modern working life and a modern labour market. I really wish the Minister for Employment good luck in the talks to come. I hope they will be extended. But I also hope that we will land in a proposal to strengthen the Employment Protection Act so that it will actually be a real protection for everyone in the Swedish labour market.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-134	Mr President, I would like to It feels good that we have a Minister for Labour who, like me and Helén Pettersson, sees the need for strong legislation. It is good that we agree that a strong employment protection law will be needed in the future labour market. I have dealt with many cases over the years as a trade union representative where LAS has been crucial to the results that we have obtained in negotiations. It has been possible to refer to the last out. It has been possible to make contractual arrangements and protect the skills required for the company to function. There has been a self-evident order that has provided stability and security for employees. This is the order that we must ensure that we continue to have in the Swedish labour market. It is a system that a welfare country like Sweden deserves. I've already heard about private health care companies in Helsingborg who have planned home care. Care companies in Halmstad have been flattened. They've been planing in Falkenberg. So there is already a movement in the wrong direction, which makes me absolutely convinced of this need. I only met yesterday afternoon representatives of Municipal in Hässleholm at home in my constituency. They had already felt that employers had read the judgment and started using it. With this, I would like to emphasise the need for the Minister for Labour. People in the country are waiting for us. It is we who are to create the conditions for a continued secure labour market and protect employees' employment. Like Mr Pettersson, I think it is exemplary that the Minister should meet the parties. I look forward to a good result, and I look forward to the fact that we will be able to protect employees through strong legislation in the future as well.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-139	Mr President, I would like to I also take note of the concerns expressed here by Annelie Karlsson and Helén Pettersson. There are many employees who are concerned about the future of their jobs and their workplaces, and this is primarily the case for women and women-dominated industries. For those who listen to the debate, it is important to point out that no legislative change has been made. The government has not changed the LAS to allow planing, but it is a practice and judgment of the Labour Court that has shown that the law allows this. You could say that the situation is. As I have said before, I am not prepared here today to take a position on and assess the situation. I want to talk to the parties before I do. Nevertheless, let me make a reflection, namely that there are actually a little bit of two perspectives that are collapsing. We have the Swedish labour market model with the Swedish labour market policy, which in fact almost affirms that some companies are closing down or that people are being dismissed for the conversion to be confirmed. We have an agreement that has served Sweden very well not to protect jobs at all costs but to protect employees by having a security insurance policy in the event of a change, by taking responsibility through the conversion agreements, by having an active labour market policy and by having a solidarity wage policy that puts all employers under the same or similar wage pressure, so that those who go badly are not subsidised without actually maintaining pressure for change. This model has served Sweden very well, and it is based on the fact that when there is a shortage of work people become unemployed and can be sucked up by other jobs in the labour market. One could say that the Employment Protection Act is structured in a different way. There, the focus is actually to avoid dismissal and to regulate when dismissal has to happen – in what way and in what order. Then one can say that these are somewhat contradictory to each other. These are, in any case, slightly different perspectives, and both perspectives are important in the labour market. What we have now seen is that protection against dismissal has also been used in a situation where unions believe that it is in fact a job shortage situation and not a reorganisation. So these are the two perspectives, and, as I said, I am not yet prepared to take a position on how to assess this. But I am concerned, and I do not have enough knowledge to say how extensive the problem is. But I face the same concerns as the interpellants, where many say they have heard or fear that there will be planing decisions at their workplace. This is therefore definitely an issue that the government has reason to follow very closely.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-148	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for that. It is no wonder that we share the view about the foundation of the Swedish labour market and how it is structured. But I may have a slightly different view of the Employment Protection Act, and I do not see that it contradicts the Swedish model's sometimes somewhat harsh view of companies, redundancies and other things. The Employment Protection Act is part of the Swedish labour market model. Yes, sometimes people have to be dismissed because there is sometimes a shortage of jobs in companies. Then try to reorganise and reduce the workforce so that the company can continue to work on the same terms as everyone else. But when these redundancies take place, they must be done in order. There must be some kind of basic security for the employees, so that they know that these redundancies are right and that someone does not lose their job because he or she may not be the one the employer puts at the top of his or her private list of favorite people. Therefore, I see that the Employment Protection Act really complements the Swedish model rather than contradicts it. As I said, we share the fundamental view of the Swedish labour market. But for the Swedish model to work, it requires that we have solid and sustainable legislation to work on the basis of when supplementary collective agreements and other things are signed. When we see that there are gaps in this legislation, it is also our duty as parliamentarians in this locality to look at what we can do to strengthen it.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-153	Mr President, I would like to I'm not going to get so tedious. I fully agree with Mrs Pettersson in her description of the legislation, and it does not need to be repeated. However, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Ylva Johansson for the answer. I think we will hear this discussion in the future, and I will follow the outcome of the joint talks that Ylva Johansson will have. I think it is incredibly important that we can state that the Employment Protection Act should protect employment and not just be a law on employment. It is an important principle that it should be a law on the protection of employment and not just a law on employment. I hope that we will land in that we will have legislation that will once again ensure that this is how it works in the Swedish labour market.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-156	Mr President, I would like to Let me make a clarification. No, LAS definitely does not contradict the Swedish labour market model. However, there are a little different perspectives in relation to how we manage the transition in the labour market and the protection of the individual's employment. The labour market is constantly changing, and new challenges are constantly emerging. Then it is clear that we must have legislation that is relevant and robust in relation to the challenges and the situation that we have in Sweden, where collective agreements deal with the flexibility and rapid solutions that are needed and that have served Sweden well. It's a model this government wants to keep. I would like to thank you for the debate, which I think has been clarification to many who have listened. This is definitely an issue that will be debated more both here in this House and in the labour market, and I look forward to continuing to participate in this discussion.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-159	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson has asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs how she will act on the issue of support for India's membership of the Nuclear Suppliers Group, NSG. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. NSG is an export control regime with currently 48 Member States, including Sweden. Its work concerns the export control of listed nuclear items and other dual-use items that can be used in the development or production of nuclear weapons. Although India is not a party to the NPT, the broader and more important question for Sweden is whether, in an overall assessment, it is better for the global non-proliferation and disarmament work to have India in NSG or not. Having carefully studied India's application and how practical action has been taken on non-proliferation, the government has come to the conclusion that it is better to have India in the NSG, to work there with them and the other NSG states for a strict global export control to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons, than to have India outside. India has signalled a clear willingness and commitment to participate in the work of multilateral export control regimes. At the plenary meeting in Pusan, South Korea, in mid-October, India was welcomed as a member of the Missil Technology Control regime, MTCR. This group aims to prevent the proliferation of missiles that can be used as means of delivery of weapons of mass destruction. MTCR is therefore an important complement to NSG. In order to effectively prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, we must also get states outside the circle of countries in the EU, the United States, Russia and others – who have previously had access alone to the sophisticated technology required in this area – to assume their control responsibilities. With membership of the NSG comes such responsibility.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-163	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. However, I am not making any sense about this. It was precisely India's testing of nuclear weapons in 1974 that led to the formation of this group, that is, the NSG. The background was that, contrary to promises made, India had used Canadian-imported plutonium not for civilian use, as had been promised, but for the development of nuclear weapons. The NSG aims to secure nuclear non-proliferation through guidelines for the export of nuclear technology and related products. And now India of all countries will be allowed into this control group – India, which has not even signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty! I can't believe it. One might say that it is better to have the pyromaniac employed in the fire department than outside, but we rarely reason that way. In 2006, the United States concluded an agreement with India on trade in nuclear technology and more for civilian use, that is, what India ignored in 1974. At the time, the United States wanted to make exceptions for India, because this was in breach of the principle. Carl Bildt, then Minister of Foreign Affairs, naturally wanted to meet with the United States and support this exception. At the time, however, leading Social Democrats protested strongly. What exactly has led to the 180-degree turn on this issue? Full membership is more than what was discussed in 2006. What happened, apart from the fact that the Social Democrats are in the government? That doesn't make any sense to me either. In arms export circles, as in the NSG, we sometimes talk about dual-use items, that is, both civilian and military. I think that politics should have dual uses; it should be consistent whether it is in opposition or in government. I hope the Minister shares that view. The US has therefore moved on and proposed that India should also be able to have full membership of the NSG. It would then be the first Member State not party to the NPT, that is, the Non-Proliferation Treaty, or any agreement on a nuclear-free zone – this despite the fact that the NSG's principles of membership require states either to be party to and comply with the Non-Proliferation Treaty or to be party to a nuclear-free zone. Accepting India as a member weakens, as I see it, the whole work on nuclear disarmament, and it is the opinion of several scientists that this is the case. It is believed that India does not meet the NSG's membership principles and has not complied with the promises made in connection with the 2006 derogation. For example, Daryl Kimball, the respected CEO of the Arms Control Association in Washington, says that the formula described lays the bar extremely low to enjoy the best privileges of nuclear trade and does not require any further non-proliferation commitments. That is why this is particularly surprising, Mr President. If you are even going to discuss membership, then there would now be an opportunity for what the Foreign Minister has talked about – that it is possible to do both and, that is to say, to promote both increased accession to the NPT and the Test Ban Treaty as well as an extended circle of countries in this NSG. What exactly is Sweden doing to at least condition India's membership with commitments in these directions? I want to know. Obviously, using our veto will not, namely.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-171	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's goal is, and has long been, disarmament and the pursuit of a nuclear-free world. There must be no doubt that this is our entrance. We all know what nuclear war could mean. Such a war would in reality threaten the existence of all mankind. We in Sweden have had a strong commitment to this for a long time. The basis for the work is as Stig Henriksson describes the NPT, which since its creation has been aimed at preventing more countries acquiring nuclear weapons, in addition to the original five who had it at the time of the agreement – the USA, the Soviet Union/Russia, the United Kingdom, France and China. Sweden has been a strong advocate of the work and pushed to get all the countries of the world to sign. It has also been successful; we now have a situation in which almost all countries have joined. Without the Non-Proliferation Treaty, we would probably have had a much larger number of nuclear weapons states and thus also dramatically increased risks of nuclear war. In addition to the NPT, we are talking about today, that is, the NSG – Nuclear Suppliers Group. The group consists of countries with sensitive nuclear technologies that could be used to produce nuclear weapons. 48 countries, including Sweden, are members of this cooperation. It covers materials for both nuclear and civilian purposes, such as research and nuclear. The aim of this cooperation is to prevent technology from coming into the hands of countries that would like to produce nuclear weapons. It is an export control regime in which members undertake to prevent the export of sensitive technologies for the production of nuclear weapons. I said earlier that NPT is and has been a successful agreement that Sweden has worked very hard to get full coverage for. It is not complete, however, but we have some countries outside – including India, which have acquired nuclear weapons anyway. So there we had the first test explosion in 1974. Since then, it has been over 40 years. India is now saying that it wants to be part of the NSG, and then the question is: Should we allow it to be part of the Nuclear Suppliers Group even if it has not signed the Non-Proliferation Treaty? I think this is a classic example of not making the best of the good's enemy. It is clear that the best thing would have been if India scrapped its nuclear weapons and joined the NPT, but it is probably just to say that it will not happen – at least not in the near future. However, if India at least undertakes not to spread the technology it has had for a very long time, that is to say, under the export control regime NSG actually means, the question is how we should look at it. In my opinion, the main issue for Sweden is what contributes most to peace and stability in the world. How do we most effectively ensure that technology does not fall into the wrong hands? Do we contribute most to a better stability in the world by having India in the NSG, or do we most contribute to a better stability in the world to have India outside? That is precisely the question we have, and in my view it is actually better to have India within this export control regime than to have the country outside. It contributes better to stability in the world.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-177	Mr President, I would like to We still have to see that there has been a 180-degree turn since 2006, and I wonder how the arguments have changed so thoroughly that India is suddenly welcome as a full member rather than having just some sort of agreement. I also wonder what conditions have been imposed on India to become a member, and if sufficient conditions have not been laid down, I wonder why we do not use the right of veto. The Minister says that Sweden has worked and works for a nuclear-free world. I fully agree with that, and I think it is honourable. This applies not least to the decision to join the Humanitarian Pledge and so on; it's great. However, I do not agree at all with the Minister when he says that we all know what nuclear war would mean. Unfortunately, that is not the case at all; we know what is happening in the world in which we live. The United States has decided to invest $250 billion in ten years to modernise its nuclear weapons. Britain has taken a decision to invest somewhere between GBP 12 billion and GBP 15 billion in modernising its two nuclear submarines. Russia has an ambitious programme to rebuild. Icemer robots have been moved to Kaliningrad, possibly with nuclear weapons – at least they can carry nuclear weapons. It's pretty close to Sweden. Apparently, not everyone knows the effect of this, and it is very serious. I will come back to the question I have asked. Joining the NSG is quite a privilege, as you put it at the Arms Control Association in Washington. It is believed that very few conditions have been imposed. Why not? Now is the time. Furthermore, we know that Pakistan, inspired by India, has now also submitted a membership application. Will Sweden, in the name of justice, welcome Pakistan too, with the same argument? Who's next, as someone asked himself in the 1960s, is it North Korea? Countries such as Switzerland, Austria, Ireland and New Zealand – countries that, like Sweden, normally work actively against nuclear weapons – are opposed to India becoming a member of the NSG, as I have been able to obtain. However, the Minister may have more recent information. How does the Minister explain Sweden's new position to them? It is, of course, largely contrary to what we have taken a stand for in the past. Finally, the Minister states in his reply that the Government has reached this conclusion after carefully examining India's application. But what did you do in 2006? Did you then take a stand without having studied the application carefully? Why the reversal?
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-184	Mr President, I would like to It's like the world's changing. It is more than 40 years since the first test explosion took place. It's been more than ten years since we wrote in 2006. These questions must always be considered on the basis of the circumstances in which the question arises. What has guided us is the main question: What is most beneficial to stability and peace in the world? In this case, our conclusion is that the risk of nuclear proliferation – that it falls into the wrong hands – increases unless India is in the NSG. This is the main issue. Can't Stig Henriksson see that risk? With regard to NSG's requirements and criteria, five main requirements are required if you are to be allowed to participate. The first is to be a manufacturer of this type of technology. The second is to follow the guidelines that the NSG has set up. India is a producer, and since 2008 the guidelines have been followed. The third requirement is to have effective domestic export controls with legislation and enforcement. India also lives up to this. The fourth is that it has signed the Non-Proliferation Treaty, or equivalent agreement, and has also signed the IAEA agreement. This is what we are discussing – India has signed the IAEA agreement, but it has not signed the NPT. However, the second criterion is met, as has been said. The fifth and final demand is that we work internationally for the disarmament of weapons of mass destruction, as India actually does. In addition, India has a unilateral ban on nuclear testing. These five criteria are also based on a "should-formulation" – i.e. that members should live up to this. Of these five demands, it can be said that India lives at least up to four and a half. I think it is against this background that this overall assessment should be carried out. How does India behave? Does the stability of the world benefit from India's being under this export control regime or not? Our assessment is that the risk of spreading this technology is reduced if India is part of this cooperation organisation. In the best of worlds, India had never had nuclear weapons, and the 1974 test explosion had never taken place. In the best of worlds, India had undertaken to scrap its nuclear weapons and disarm. However, we are not there today, and then we must try to see what the conditions are right now. Therefore, our conclusion is that, in this situation, India should be able to be granted membership of the NSG.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-194	Mr President, I would like to It is true that the world is changing, but I cannot see that there has been a radical change in nuclear weapons since 2006. Perhaps I can see that there is a difference between being in opposition and being in a government position, but this may be developed by the Minister. Nuclear weapons are no less a threat now than in 2006. With the renovation, modernisation and expansion that is taking place, we are living in a more dangerous state now than we did in 2006. It is clear that we should take a position on the conditions that prevail and on what benefits the work best. The Minister says that this does, but I do not hear the good arguments for this. In particular, I cannot understand why we cannot welcome Pakistan or North Korea with exactly the same arguments. I do not think there is anything that distinguishes North Korea and Pakistan here. India lives up to four and a half out of five demands – it sounds like you're almost in goal. But the most important thing is not to live up to: the NPT, the Non-Proliferation Treaty. This is a bit like saying that Then it's not a semla. Here it is probably that you can not take it piece by piece. I'm not the only one who's worried. There are organisations working against nuclear weapons and nuclear proliferation that are very concerned. I have quoted the Arms Control Association, and there are also Swedish Doctors against Nuclear Weapons, for example. They and I are as concerned about this decision as we are pleased with the government's position that we are voting in favour of a ban on nuclear weapons. I find it sad that Sweden does not use its right of veto, that we do not push too hard conditions but lay the bar low, according to this organisation, and that we do not have better arguments.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-201	Mr President, I would like to The best argument is what Stig Henriksson himself used – that nuclear weapons are no less a threat today than it was 10 or 15 years ago. In many respects, it is more of a threat today, and we see that a number of countries are trying to develop nuclear weapons in different ways. That is precisely why – in order to ensure that this technology does not come into the wrong hands – we need to have effective export control regimes. This is also my main argument: at this point, we believe that it serves the stability and peace of the world best for India to have this opportunity. Then you are placed under the export control of this agreement, which reduces the risk of this technology going into the wrong hands. Stig Henriksson talks about Pakistan and North Korea, but they have shown a completely different attitude towards peace and stability. It will never come into question that North Korea could be at stake. As I was in the past, the main issue is not to make the best the enemy of the good. In the best of worlds we had had a much smaller number of countries that had acquired nuclear weapons. In the best of worlds we had been heading for disarmament, where we could get rid of all nuclear weapons. However, we are not there, and we must instead ensure that effective control mechanisms are in place to keep the dissemination of this technology as small as possible. This is exactly what the NSG is about. I thank Stig Henriksson for the debate. I am not sure that we can agree on the basic issue, but I hope, in any case, that I have been able to make the main argument clear. For us, it is about contributing to greater stability and peace overall in the world.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-207	Mr President, I would like to Jan Ericson has asked me how I see the Migration Agency making it difficult for Swedish municipalities to deal with the housing situation for new arrivals and whether I am prepared to give instructions to the Migration Agency to release all rented apartments in the public utility that are used as asylum accommodations, in order to alleviate the housing crisis in the municipalities in this way. There are several reasons why the apartments the Migration Agency rents are preferable to the temporarily procured accommodations. Temporary dwellings are considerably more expensive than rental apartments. In addition, they rarely have self-catering, which means less activation and integration conditions for asylum seekers, who neither have to shop nor cook themselves. Furthermore, it is important to remember that the apartments that the Migration Agency rents are mainly not located in the municipalities that have the greatest need for housing for new arrivals. According to the municipality figures for 2016, the ten municipalities with the highest reception were to receive nearly 6,900 new arrivals in 2016. In these ten municipalities, the Finnish Immigration Service rents apartments corresponding to just under 80 places of residence. Unleashing the Finnish Immigration Service's apartments is therefore not the solution to the municipalities' challenge of arranging housing for new arrivals. In view of this, I will not give any directives to the Migration Agency to release all rented public utility apartments used as asylum accommodation.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-211	Mr President, I would like to I must thank the Minister for his answer. But I think the Minister's position is almost incomprehensible. The Moderates were part of the Migration Agreement, and we agreed to make it mandatory for all municipalities to accept new arrivals. But we assumed that the government and the authorities involved would then also do everything to support and facilitate the municipalities in the process of obtaining housing. Today it is exactly the opposite. The Swedish municipalities are actively being opposed, and I think that is actually indecent. The housing problem is growing. Since I made my interpellation, a significant number of municipalities have alerted me about an acute housing shortage. I have even received e-mails from municipalities that think it is good that I highlight this issue. Some municipalities have recently even declared that they simply refuse to accept more new arrivals. In Borås, the municipality tries to take its responsibility. The Migration Board has been terminated from around twenty apartments, and the Rental Board has given the city the right. Does the Minister think it is reasonable for the Migration Agency to defy the decisions of the Board of Rentals and draw the City of Borås in the right direction, which is being done right now? As a result, in Borås today there are about fifty newly-located municipalities that are forced to live in dormitories in Folket Hus, while asylum seekers live in rented apartments in the city. Does the Minister of Migration really think this is reasonable? Just before Christmas came the news that the City of Gothenburg had to place 40 new arrivals in dormitories, while the Migration Agency rents apartments where asylum seekers live pending decisions. In some cases, therefore, new arrivals who are municipally placed receive less housing than they had as asylum seekers. How does the Minister think it will be conducive to integration? In the answer, the Minister himself writes that rental apartments are important because it provides better activation and integration conditions for asylum seekers, who can shop and cook themselves and so on. It is therefore important for the integration of asylum seekers that they live in rental apartments, but it is not as important that the new arrivals who are to stay in our country have the same opportunity. I think that is quite the wrong priority. This problem exists all over the country. According to the information I have received, the Migration Agency rents apartments from the municipal housing companies that would at least be sufficient to 25 000 – 30 000 people. If one were to blur the current rule for how many people can live in each apartment, one could probably offer an additional number of thousand people a place. A large part of today's housing shortage could be dealt with if the Migration Agency instead of letting asylum seekers live in rental apartments let them go to the municipalities to offer accommodation to new arrivals. The Minister says that it is not possible because the apartments are located in the wrong municipalities. But then there is either the possibility to move the new arrivals to the municipalities where there are apartments or to at least release the apartments rented by the Migration Agency in the municipalities where there is a high pressure on housing to new arrivals. The Minister does not agree to this either. The other day the news came that the Migration Agency is moving 16 000 asylum seekers from rented facilities. Many of them should instead enter rental apartments in the municipalities. This makes it even more difficult for municipalities to find accommodation. I think this is very strange. When the Migration Agency actively sabotages municipalities to arrange accommodation in an extremely strained situation, where new arrivals are forced to live in dormitories, it also affects others who need apartments, not least our young people. In Borås, for example, there are 30,000 people in the housing queue. What do the Minister think they think when the Migration Board simply refuses to release these apartments? How does this affect integration? How does such a situation affect people's view of newly arrived people?
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-223	Mr President, I would like to It is Jan Ericson's attitude that is completely incomprehensible. My simple question is, if we leave these apartments, where are the asylum seekers going? Jan Ericson doesn't care about a single thing. It's the state that has to take that responsibility. The problem from the beginning is that the bourgeois government almost privatised a large part of the asylum reception. It was far too small a base of its own, i.e. the number of accommodations that the Migration Board itself had. When we took over the Migration Board had about 25 000 seats of our own, in our own suit, so to speak. In 2014, one third of the total of 40,000 places were procured, temporary accommodation among others Bert Karlsson. It was your policy. What we have done is that we have built out the bottom plate, that is, more of our own accommodation, so that we do not have to buy the temporary accommodations of Bert Karlsson and others. It's good in many ways. Firstly, it is much cheaper. The cost of dormitories or apartments is one third of the cost of buying up temporary accommodation. So it was three times as expensive in the way you worked. Secondly, it puts the local government sector in a much better position. When you shop for temporary accommodation in the way you did, it is often the case that a couple of three hundred asylum seekers can suddenly come to a small town because there is someone there who has won the contract. Then the municipality will arrange schooling for perhaps one third of those who have arrived. It is almost impossible for the municipality to plan based on these conditions. You privatized a large part of the asylum accommodations, and you contributed to the twitchiness because the Migration Board did not get a large enough base plate of its own. What we've been doing over the last two years is we've been building our own suit. From about 25 000 places, there are now 39 000 places in apartments and corridor rooms. At the same time, we have decommissioned a large part of the private, temporary housing, which is so expensive and which you were so keen to do. This year we expect about 8,000 temporary accommodations. I think that those who have been able to make money from temporary housing have simply made enough money now. Now we have to try to reduce that part. If we were to start dismantling the dormitories and apartments that we have purchased, we would have to buy accommodations elsewhere in the country and buy them from one of these entrepreneurs. And that is exactly what Jan Ericson actually advocates, that we should leave the places we have and instead shop for places by Bert Karlsson. It would be three times as expensive. Then my simple question is: Is it the policy of the Moderates that we should do so? If so, how are we going to finance it? Where is the government going to take the money that we must then have to buy these places three times as expensive? In the Moderate Budget Movement, I can't find an answer. There's only one big cut down on the Migration Agency. You want to cut by 500 million dollars at the Migration Agency. How does it go together, Jan Ericson, when you on the one hand want us to leave the rented apartments and shop up three times as expensive places of private entrepreneurs and on the other hand say that we should cut down on the Migration Board by half a billion dollars? That doesn't make any sense. There is only one solution to this, and that is that we continue to build more. Last year, over 60 000 new apartments were built. We are now building at a rate that we have not done in almost 40 years. That's the solution.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-235	Mr President, I would like to It is a strange reality description Morgan Johansson makes when he says that it was during the time of the Alliance that the number of residential buildings exploded. It was during the autumn of 2015, during Morgan Johansson's time as Minister, that Bert Karlsson and others' activities exploded. Morgan Johansson wonders what kind of proposal we Moderates have. We have very clear proposals. We've gone out publicly and talked about what we want. We are saying exactly what I am running here, that the Migration Board's apartments should be transferred to new arrivals. Morgan Johansson does not even want to release the apartments that the Migration Board has out in the municipalities that are sometimes empty and not used. We say that the new arrivals should be able to stay longer in asylum accommodations because it is after all better than living in dormitories out in the municipalities. It's not a good start to a new life. Then it is better to slow the move to the municipalities at a rate so that new arrivals can be offered reasonable accommodation and not end up in a dormitory when they are placed in the municipality. We also say that instead of the Migration Agency having to phase out asylum accommodations and arrange dormitories in Folkets Hus, in order to avoid paying for the places, one should at least be able to offer the municipalities to pay for the places. We think it would be a reasonable solution for municipalities to be able to rent these places from the Migration Agency until they have found other accommodations. So there is a thought in this. We believe that these solutions could actually work and solve the acute crisis. Morgan Johansson says there are 39,000 places out in the municipalities. What if the 39,000 seats could be disposed of by the municipalities for the new arrivals? Then we would not have this crisis today with housing for new arrivals at all. That would cover the entire lack of accommodation today. I still don't understand how the minister thinks. The Minister says the solution is to build. But these people live in dormitories today. They can't wait a year or two for us to build new houses. We need to resolve the situation right now, and the Minister does not have a solution at all. The only solution he has is that the Migration Agency draws municipalities that cancel apartments and try to resolve this situation before the courts. I think it's really bad. If there is a serious social problem, there is not always a quick and realistic solution. I know that, and I have great respect for that. It may be so regardless of government. But when there is a clearly realistic solution that could quickly solve the problem and the government does not want to use it, it is bad. Then you don't take responsibility as a government. That it is good for the Migration Agency to rent apartments instead of having construction housing I have respect for. I'm sure it is. It's cheaper per location and so on. But we can't handle the situation of the new arrivals, who are actually to be integrated into our society and get into a reasonable everyday life in a new municipality. Does Morgan Johansson really think it's a good start that they end up in a dormitory at Folkets Hus?
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-243	Mr President, I would like to No, of course, the best thing is to continue building housing – which we are now doing, more than we have done in 40 years. The vast majority of new dwellings that are being added in Sweden are now being added in Social Democratic municipalities, not in moderate ones because they have always held back. It's simple mathematics, Jan Ericson. If we release all 39 000 seats to the municipalities, where are we going to make of all asylum seekers who today have these seats? They cannot sleep outside; they must have a roof over their heads. The alternative is to shop for places. My basic criticism of your policy last time was that even with the rather low reception Sweden had during your time, a large part of the sites were procured by Bert Karlsson, for example. It was inefficient, and it got twitchy for the municipalities. Because of our too little suit, we had to shop for more places when there were many in 2015. We have tried to learn from the mistake you made and have expanded the capacity of the Migration Board itself. If we were to drop the 39 000 seats, go down to zero and instead shop up by Bert Karlsson and others it would cost more than 1 billion extra for taxpayers. Jan Ericson says that's what the Moderates want to do. You can say that, but you don't fund it, quite the opposite. How will the government finance that billion in excess? Is it to be financed by your 500 million-dollar cut? I can't. There is a good expression: How to turn around you have the butt of the back. In this case, that is exactly the case. In some way, we must ensure that these people have a roof over their heads and that we can manage the commitment itself. Then it is the wrong way to go out of these apartments and instead shop them up temporarily in the way you want to do. There is only one way, and that is to continue to maintain a high built-up act. It was the start of more than 60,000 homes last year, and this year the rate of housing production is probably even higher. We build more homes than it has been in 40 years and far more housing than you ever managed to deliver in your eight years. Imagine if your housing policy had been able to solve some of the problems in 2014 so that we did not have to take over an acute housing shortage when we took office. Of course, this situation would have been much easier. It's on. Most municipalities are doing well. However, there are some municipalities that have long had too low housing construction and therefore have no capacity. But gradually, month by month, we are now making sure to pick up these flaws. However, the solution to this is not to go back to your bad system where you had to shop up too much of private entrepreneurs.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-254	Mr President, I would like to Morgan Johansson beats his chest and boasts that it is the government's credit that a lot is being built today. But that's not true. Construction has increased for three four years since the financial crisis, and there is not a single political decision by Morgan Johansson that has in any way affected that more is being built today. We have low interest rates and economic boom, and it is clear that it benefits construction. Morgan Johansson wonders where all the asylum seekers should go if you drop these apartments? You can start by not giving up the 16 000 seats that the Migration Board is giving up right now. There are 16,000 people. Morgan Johansson says they wouldn't have a roof over their heads. Well, if we were not to lay off the asylum homes that exist today, these people could be accommodated there. Does Morgan Johansson really mean that we should have a huge costume for the Migration Agency in the municipal housing stock in case there are future asylum flows? Should these apartments be empty and wait for the possible arrival of asylum seekers while the new arrivals in the municipalities will live in dormitories in Folkets Hus? This is completely crazy. I don't understand how to reason at all. How many empty apartments does Morgan Johansson think there should be in the municipalities at the same time as there is a housing shortage? It is not responsible to reason that way. Morgan Johansson is still completely unanswered. He says that month by month more and more is being built in Sweden. But that doesn't solve the problem. It is today that we need these apartments, and they exist. They're hired by the Migration Agency, and the Migration Agency refuses to release them. Since the Migration Agency has other alternatives, the least you can ask is for the Migration Agency to help municipalities in an emergency situation by releasing the apartments in Borås and Gothenburg, where there is an extreme lack of housing, and instead accommodate these people in asylum homes. That is absolutely self-evident. There is no human being who thinks it makes sense to have it as it is now.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-260	Mr President, I would like to Jan Ericson's suggestion is to keep the temporary accommodations and get out of the apartments. But the temporary accommodations are almost three times as expensive as the apartments. The daily cost of dormitories and apartments is SEK 156 per individual. The daily cost of temporary housing is SEK 427 per individual. If we get out of the apartments and instead buy the places on the open market or leave the contracts on the expensive accommodations remain, it costs the state over SEK 1 billion. The Moderates have not financed this in their budget. On the contrary, you have put a cut in the Migration Agency of half a billion dollars. You can't have both positions at the same time. You cannot add increased costs to the Migration Agency and then in the next breath cut down by half a billion. I can't. The vast majority of these apartments are located in municipalities that will not have to receive so many new arrivals. That's what I said in my answer. So there is no geographical correlation. This means that if we leave these apartments they will be empty. They are not today; they are full of people waiting for decisions. But if we do as Jan Ericson wants, a large proportion of these apartments will be empty, at least for some time. Of course we shouldn't wear a giant suit. We're not supposed to have a situation where the Migration Agency has empty apartments. Neither have we, and we haven't had that on I don't know how long. But we need to have a bottom plate so that we do not end up in the same situation as we did in 2015 when we had to increase procurement dramatically at a large cost.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-265	Mr President, I would like to Jörgen Warborn has asked me how far the government has come in the process of introducing the offence of gross copyright infringement and when it can be expected that the Riksdag will be able to take part in a bill on the matter. Jörgen Warborn has also asked whether the government intends to take any other steps to tackle piracy. It is a central objective of the government to provide our innovative, cultural and creative industries with the best conditions to grow and to prevent intrusions, including on the internet. In this way, we can facilitate new jobs, higher growth and a wide range of culture. In addition, consumers can feel confident that they receive the goods and services they order. In order to achieve this objective, a combination of measures is needed, and since the public hearing this spring, further such measures have been initiated. In order to combat commercial and strategically planned crime, the government has set up an investigation to consider, among other things, whether there is a need for increased penalties for the most serious cases of copyright and trademark infringement. The report shall report on its mission by February 2018. Thereafter, the proposal of the investigation is intended to be referred to and prepared in the regular manner within the Government Office. The Swedish Patent and Registration Office, on behalf of the Government, has also begun the process of collecting statistics and informing the public about copyright. The National Media Council has also been tasked with informing young people about online copyright in the framework of its activities. The examination of intellectual property cases and cases has been brought together in two separate courts. This can be expected to lead to more efficient procedures and even higher quality of judgment. At the Ministry of Justice, we are now preparing a proposal in a report for the Customs Agency to have increased possibilities to intervene against infringements of national trademarks. The proposal aims, among other things, to reduce the risk of counterfeit and sometimes dangerous goods entering the Swedish market. The Government has also recently submitted a mission to the Swedish Agency for Growth to define the cultural and creative industries in collaboration with others and develop models to closely monitor their development and impact on the Swedish economy. Finally, Sweden is the driving force behind the revision of the EU Consumer Protection Cooperation Regulation. We want supervisory cooperation to be strengthened and made more effective, because it can help to reduce the circulation of pirated goods and thus also the risks that such goods pose to consumers. The government will continue to take a holistic approach to intellectual property issues.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-272	Mr President, I would like to I thank Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson for his reply. From the answer it becomes clear that it is the Moderates who are pushing the government ahead of them when it comes to issues relating to copyright and when it comes to creating order in this area. The government seems inconspicuous and lacks this engine, I would argue. As a result, intellectual property issues are long-winded. In the meantime, organised crime continues to use Sweden as a free port for its illegal activities. This is hitting cultural workers. It hits the risk-minded people who want to invest in film and other creative industries. In the long run, it beats Swedish film, Swedish music and the whole of Swedish cultural life. Intangible values are becoming increasingly important, but the government is not quite able to keep up the pace of reform. After all, however, having fought against all forms of legislation in this area, the government has now given in. I'm happy about that part of this answer. Unfortunately, it will take a year before this investigation into serious copyright and intellectual property offences is presented. It should then be prepared. This probably means that the entire term of office will have passed without the government and the minister making it all the more difficult for the criminals to legislate. However, the government may be able to save its face somewhat, and then it is important that the government is better prepared for the other proposals that I and the Moderates have made in the past. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how he intends to act when the judgment on streaming comes. This is an issue that I and the Minister have debated in the past. The background is that it is now legal to watch movies or television programmes even if they have illegal models. Anyone who starts a site and puts up illegal material is guilty of financial crime. But then you, me and everyone else can look at the material streaming path without risking anything. It is perfectly legal in Sweden, as I understand it. Does the Minister think that it is acceptable to drain the creative industries of these revenues when, instead, it favours serious organised crime?
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-275	Mr President, I would like to I can't help but smile when Jörgen Warborn says that it is the Moderates who are pushing these questions ahead. We talk a lot to the industry about this, and it remembers very well how the former moderate-led government dealt with this. In the file-sharing issue, Fredrik Reinfeldt went out and said that one cannot criminalize a whole generation of young people. You delayed the protection of intellectual property rights year after year. In fact, you did nothing in eight years on this issue. That's the picture you get from the industry. There you are deeply frustrated with your eight years. Now we have a government that has done more on these issues in the two years we have been sitting than you did in eight years. As for the image of who drives the questions or who does not, I think we differ quite a lot. And I actually think that I have quite a lot of support from those who follow these questions on a daily basis. This is a priority for the government. We will fight piracy, trademark infringement and infringement of intellectual property rights. We have been very clear that theft is theft, even if it happens on the internet and even if it is about piracy. We cannot look between our fingers on this. It is an economic issue and a growth issue. Sweden is a country with a fantastic innovation power. Almost daily we are told how incredibly successful we are as a nation when it comes to creative industries. And we're gonna keep doing that. But to do so requires strong protection of intellectual property rights. It's a cultural issue. It is in practice the livelihood of songwriters, writers and filmmakers that we are talking about. It is threatened by piracy. Then what have we done? We have set up two new special courts. I opened the Patent and Market Court last year. The process of creating this has taken 40 years, and we have now finished. The question of getting this clear has existed since the 1970s. We have specially trained police officers and prosecutors, an activity initiated as far back as the former Social Democratic Government. We now also have a unitary patent system in Europe. Despite Brexit, which in the end became a concern for us, we have gone ashore with it. We also managed to clarify this issue at European level. And we're moving on. I write in my reply that we are now also looking at the possibilities for the Finnish Customs to intervene against infringements of national trademarks and to seize and destroy the type of goods that might be encountered. We have already done so in the case of EU trade marks, which we encounter in transit. To get rid of this Fredrik Reinfeldt attitude, we go forward with more information to young people about what really applies. We are also moving forward with a review of criminal law. We set up an investigation into this yesterday, and the Justice Council Dag Mattsson has already had its first meeting. Yesterday afternoon, he met the secretary. He's already started this job. We are going to review the scale of penalties for gross copyright infringement, but also the scale of penalties for brand infringement, which is actually news. We have not said that before, but we are also reviewing those rules. We are reviewing the rules on prosecution, i.e. the rules on when to prosecute in general. We are also looking at the possibilities of more easily securing evidence of intellectual property during investigations through, for example, seizures and detention. In addition, we are preparing, Mr President, a specific intellectual property strategy. For those who follow these issues on a daily basis, I therefore believe that there is no doubt as to which government it is acting and which governments it was that neither spoke nor acted.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-282	Mr President, I would like to I note that I did not receive an answer to the question of how the government will act in terms of streaming. My first written question to Morgan Johansson on this subject was asked in spring 2015. I then asked the Minister to take any steps to protect and develop copyright? I got an answer on just over one page, which contained some reasoning on what is happening in Europe with collective rights management and on the courts, but it was really very thin. The Minister claims that initiative comes from the government, but I do not think that is quite true. I do not believe that preparations had been made within the government and between parties. I don't think the parties are really intertwined here either. The Green Party has a somewhat odd policy in this area. In the answer to my written question, there were no concrete measures. But now I have to say that it is a rather impressive list that the Minister reads out in the interpellation response. And it all comes from moderate exercise, I have noted. The issue of investigating the introduction of the offence of serious copyright offences is included in our motion 2015/ 16:2453. That the Swedish Patent and Registration Office should collect statistics is something that is included in our exercise 2016/ 17:3151. There is also the matter of informing the public about serious copyright offences. As far as the two special courts are concerned, this is something that already exists in a ministerial letter of January 2014, that is, under the alliance government. When it comes to increased possibilities for the Swedish Customs to intervene against infringements of national trademarks, it comes from our exercise 3151. When it comes to the task of the Swedish Agency for Growth to define the cultural and creative industries, it is also included in our exercise 2453. So I am very pleased with what is happening. That is consistent with moderate politics. But I still think it's possible and I've gone a little too slow. I don't mind the Minister joining the Moderates' policy. But we need to speed up, because piracy is a widespread problem. The investigation is perhaps one of the key issues in this and was the one that led me to ask the question. That was something that the Minister opened up at the hearing organised by the Committee on Economic Affairs last April. It was in itself a turnaround. Morgan Johansson has previously said that this is not the way to go. After all, I'm glad you do. It is a little notable that the government decided on the investigation yesterday, that is, one day before we are going to get up in the debate. It seems that it has been very slow to get started with the investigation. In order not to waste time with other important issues to overcome the problem, I would like to give the Minister another chance to show some kind of initiative and momentum. I would like to ask: why is it illegal to stream in Denmark but legally in Sweden? Will the Minister take any initiatives to overcome this?
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-289	Mr President, I would like to It is good that Jörgen Warborn now says that it is an impressive list and that he is pleased with this. Then he relates it to the fact that some of the suggestions have also been found in moderate movements. I have also been in opposition for a few years. I was for eight years. I know about how to work. Some suggestions that come from associations and the surrounding community are often sucked up and then put into exercise. At least we did so in our time, and so have the Moderates at this point. In exactly the same way we have done. It is therefore no wonder that it is the same kind of proposals that come back as we move forward as you have had in your motions. It is good that the Moderates now have that attitude. For you did not have that attitude in government. You were still in the government for eight years, but you did not take any of these measures during that time. It was because you probably had some locks internally. There were different views on privacy issues, file sharing issues and the whole complex of questions where I know you were a long way from each other. That's why it didn't happen so terribly much during that time either. However, a lot of things happened when we were in government earlier. Remember the big discussion about Pirate Bay about ten years ago or the specially trained prosecutors and police for these issues! We don't have to bury ourselves in it anymore. We can only say that it is now on the right track. We have a common understanding of what measures are to be taken on the whole. On the issue of streaming, before moving forward, we need to have clarification on how EU law views this. It is something that also distinguishes an opposition from a government. Sometimes we have to wait for court proceedings and clarification at European level before we can act. Otherwise, I would violate the rules that exist. As far as Denmark is concerned and why it can be illegal there, it is precisely that question that is being examined right now, that is, how EU law views streaming bans. It should be said in itself that in Denmark, as far as I know, no conviction has been given at all with this legislation. This is because it is incredibly difficult to prove a breach of the streaming rules. What effect it would actually have in reality is questionable. I await the decision of the European Court of Justice. When I see it, the government will decide how to proceed. I do not rule out moving forward on this issue too. But I still have forms that I have to stick to as a minister.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-297	Mr President, I would like to I have chosen to highlight the issue in the interpellation again because it is a major problem with intellectual property offences. Statistics in this area are a little short. The study that I am partly leaning on is from Mediavision, which a few years ago showed that 32 percent of the Swedish people illegally download four to five films every month. It is a third of the Swedish people who download or stream. In many cases, these revenue streams end up with organized serious crime. I think neither the Minister for Justice nor I think it is a good situation. We both want to get to grips with that. That is why it is important that we continue to debate it and find solutions to it. Intellectual property values are becoming increasingly important for Sweden. The more we gain an increased share of the knowledge economy in the economy, the more important intellectual property rights become. Today, every third job comes from that industry or that type of company. This is exactly what Morgan Johansson says. We listen to the industry and hear what it says there are problems. That is how I imagine political development to be carried out. You listen in and see what social problems they are. I feel that this is a real social problem. Also streaming is an issue that the industry has lifted. As soon as the verdict comes, I hope that the Minister of Justice and the Government will read that verdict carefully and act. There may be reason to act no matter how the judgment falls. It's about how to deal smoothly and well with this kind of case. Although there has not been a conviction in Denmark, there is an important signal value in what is right and what is wrong. I think that this can be corrected fairly well in the legislation. I would like to conclude by thanking you for the debate.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-303	Mr President, I would like to I, too, would like to thank you for the debate and for Jörgen Warborn's commitment. If we are to continue moving forward positions, we need to act from both sides and drive it together. Therefore, we do not always have to stand and point fingers at each other and say: You said it, and I was there before, and so on. The important thing is that we move the positions together. I look forward to our continuing to have good cooperation and dialogue on the issues. In the same way, I am absolutely convinced that this is an issue that is extremely important. There are, as Jörgen Warborn says, great values at stake. The link with organised crime does not make this issue less of a priority, on the contrary. I said in my introduction that we are now, for example, going ahead with assignments to the Finnish Customs to be able to seize and destroy this type of goods when it comes to infringements of national trademarks. We go forward with more information for young people on what applies in this area. We are moving forward with the review of criminal law, the scale of penalties, the rules on prosecution and making it easier to secure evidence of intellectual property during investigations. We are also working on a specific intellectual property strategy. I would like to thank you for the debate. We continue to move these issues forward.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-307	Mr President, I would like to Mrs Cecilie-Toftby has asked me whether I intend to take steps to enable the Migration Agency to shorten its processing times. As is known, the number of asylum seekers in 2015 was very high. In addition, the distribution of asylum seekers over the year was very uneven – more than 100 000 asylum seekers came from September to November. A large number of asylum seekers with close application dates contribute to a high average processing time. When everyone who applied for asylum in Sweden in 2015 and 2016 has received a decision at first instance, the processing times will fall significantly. The Finnish Immigration Service estimates that this will take place in the second half of 2017 and that the average processing time from 2018 will be between three and four months. The Government has taken several measures to enable the Migration Agency to shorten the processing times for asylum matters. The Government's efforts have, among other things, made it possible for the Migration Agency to implement necessary and strong staff reinforcements in a short time. Another measure, which Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby also mentions, is that in the regulation letter for the financial year 2016, we commissioned the Migration Agency to shorten the processing times and increase the productivity of asylum applications in both the short and the long term. The Finnish Immigration Service has subsequently decided on a new working method for the processing of asylum cases and on processing measures. The result was that the Migration Agency decided more asylum cases in 2016 than ever before, about 112,000 cases. There are about twice as many completed asylum cases per year compared to 2015, 2014 and 2013 and more than three times as many compared to 2012. At the same time, the number of completed asylum cases per year worker has increased significantly since 2015 and is at the same level as in the previous years despite the fact that there are several factors that have a negative impact on productivity. For example, the Migration Agency has since the entry into force of the Temporary Act dealt with two parallel legislations, which increases the complexity of the proceedings. In addition, it takes time for new employees to get into work and become as effective as more experienced colleagues. The Finnish Immigration Service estimates that the efficiency measures taken will lead to further productivity gains in the coming years. In order to continue the work to streamline the asylum process, the Government submitted several assignments with this focus in the Migration Agency's regulation letter for the financial year 2017.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-312	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply, which was both long and comprehensive. Unfortunately, it did not contain the answer to the question I asked, but it was more a general description of the difficult situation in which the Migration Board finds itself. Sweden has received a large number of refugees, and it is the task of the Migration Agency to handle their asylum matters. This obviously requires both resources and competence. Morgan Johansson describes this very well in his answer. But my question, Mr President, is about another group of people who also go to Sweden – the labour immigrants who come here because a Swedish company is asking for their skills. In Borås, Vevens Mekaniska AB is currently waiting for five specialists to be hired. Five specialists are a prerequisite for the expansion of the business, says the company itself. When the Finnish Immigration Service was contacted, it was answered that the processing time is now six months. And the Veven Mechanical Workshop is not alone in this difficult situation. We currently lack expertise in a number of areas in Sweden. Four out of five companies say they would request new applications if they found the right skills, according to a report from the Swedish Technology & Design Companies. Today, some 6,000 architects and engineers are missing in Sweden. Outside our borders there are people who have the skills and who are more than happy to come here and work. The Migration Agency explains the long processing time with its reorganisation, and Morgan Johansson says in his reply that he hopes that the processing times will decrease by the end of 2017. This does not stand, Mr President. It is jobs and companies that build Sweden strong and that are the prerequisites for healthcare, school, elderly care and police. These are important areas for all of us that need to be secured secure funding through more people in work and stable growth in the Swedish economy. Mr President, I would like to Then it is directly detrimental for all of us that an authority slows down development through extremely long processing times. As Morgan Johansson's answer did not address the problems that Swedish companies face when they want to recruit skills from outside the EU, I ask the Minister again: Does Morgan Johansson think that the organisation and working methods of the Migration Agency work to facilitate the right competence for Sweden's companies? If not – what does Minister Morgan Johansson intend to do to ensure that Swedish companies get the skills they need within a reasonable time?
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-319	Mr President, I would like to Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby has been cryptic in her question. The first two paragraphs of the interpellation deal with the processing times for asylum cases. Then she writes a paragraph about the need to have more employees and the need for labour in many places. I have interpreted this as meaning that asylum seekers who are currently waiting to be informed on the labour market should be removed as soon as possible. That's what I've been answering. There is nothing in Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby's interpellation about the processing times for labour migration. That is why I have responded in the way I have done. There is nothing in the actual question about this either. However, I am happy to respond to both, if necessary. First of all, the effectiveness of asylum cases is greatly enhanced. 112 000 decisions in one year are twice as many as have been taken in the past. And not only that, but productivity, i.e. the number of cases per person, is increasing sharply. We have higher productivity now than you had in your time. Each case officer makes more asylum decisions than they did in your time. Productivity is higher, and efficiency is higher. This has meant that the total waiting time has been kept under some control. It is now an average of 10.9 months for asylum cases. It will increase slightly more, and then it will go down. As we are dealing with all these asylum matters, new opportunities are also being opened up to redeploy staff from asylum cases to the labour immigration section. We know that the Migration Agency is now working on this, and they will continue to work on it, in order to reduce the processing times for this too. It cannot be said that the authority or government has slowed down the issues. We have more than doubled the number of employees at the Migration Board in just a few years. I think that one can also think a little about this that we have some companies that want to recruit abroad. But we still have 350 000 unemployed in Sweden. We also have a large number of people entering the labour market. I think that companies should think a little about whether there might be an opportunity to recruit also within the country, among those who are unemployed here in Sweden. I think that is an important question to travel. What we are doing now is this: The Migration Agency works harder than it has ever done before. We have a higher efficiency, we have higher productivity, we will be able to pick up the queues and we will therefore be able to redeploy staff from one category, i.e. asylum matters, to the other category, i.e. the labour immigration component. We, from the government, have been involved in pushing this forward. I have a counter-question for Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby. In your budget exercise, you want to cut the Migration Agency by SEK 500 million. How did you intend to increase efficiency and ensure that more cases of labour immigration will be settled if you are to cut half a billion dollars from the agency?
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-326	Mr President, I would like to I hope Morgan Johansson also got the government's credit on this issue because you have invested in the Migration Agency. I also said in my speech that I understand that it is a great workload. Now this is not about more money for the Migration Agency, it is about how the Migration Agency works. I get a little worried when the minister says that only when the asylum cases are completed should you reprioritize and start working with labour immigrants. Of course, Swedish companies employ people who exist within Sweden. It's much faster and much easier. But what these companies are asking for is specialist expertise that does not exist in Sweden now. Education is good, but companies need manpower here and now. That is why Minister for Migration Morgan Johansson's answer is quite weak. The information we receive from companies that demand foreign labour is that the Migration Agency's current working methods are not adapted to their needs. In his reply, the Government itself referred to the fact that it increases the complexity and complexity of the Migration Agency when it has to deal with two parallel legislations, and he refers to the difference between the legislation on permanent and temporary residence permits. He should then also realise that the complexity is further increasing and that the decision-making process is made more difficult when administrators also have to deal with third-party legislation – the one that regulates labour migration. The questions therefore come from Vevens Mekaniska AB: Is there no way to streamline the process of labour migration? Should there not be profits to be made by specializing those administrators who deal with this particular issue? The five specialists who are currently waiting for their work permits have their employment papers in order. IF Metall is informed that they are on their way and welcome new members. Both Veven's Mechanical and the five new employees have done everything right. Why should it take more than six months to get an answer? Sweden and our companies need skilled labour. It is good for them, it provides tax revenue and it secures our prosperity. I get the feeling that Morgan Johansson is trying to make it happen that I put groups against each other, but that is certainly not the case. Everyone should have as fast and as good a decision-making process as possible. Right now, it's not working well for everyone. I understand that it is a great workload, but it also makes it a problem for everyone. It is a problem when it does not work, and it is both for those who wait and for those companies that need specialist expertise. With my question, I wanted to focus on the group that Morgan Johansson does not mention in his answer, namely the migrant workers. More people in work are good for everyone, including the people who are asylum seekers and waiting for answers. The lack of skills, Mr President, can be solved by labour migration – in the long term, of course, through education – but then we must have a system that works. The current situation means that companies are not even trying to find outside workers, because it takes so long. It damages our growth, our competitiveness and our prosperity. We risk companies choosing not to invest. They may be moving away from Sweden, and then jobs disappear and our prosperity is threatened. Harmful taxes and lack of skills are not good. Morgan Johansson can actually be part of the solution by saying that it does not work properly with the Migration Agency when it comes to managing labour migration. The companies are frustrated. Does Morgan Johansson share the frustration of the companies? And does Morgan Johansson see that today's extreme processing times threaten Swedish companies' ability to grow and develop?
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-336	Mr President, I would like to In Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby's interpellation, the word labour immigration is not mentioned once, but she is discussing the waiting times for asylum cases and the pressure on asylum that we have. That's why I answered the way I did. At the same time, I can see what is going to happen this year, that is to say that when the queues that exist are gradually being grazed, we will also gradually be able to allocate more resources to cope with the labour migration component. This will also reduce the processing times for the labour migration component. But for this to work, Mr President, you have to have money, and then, like the Moderates, you cannot first say that the processing times must be shortened and more resources set aside to clear up these cases and then cut the agency by SEK 500 million. How does Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby defend that cutback? She has sat here in Parliament and pressed the button and agreed to the Moderates' exercise. To cut by 500 million means that more than 500 employees will be lost. If I were to make that cut, the processing times in both asylum and labour immigration would increase considerably. Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby understands that, right? There is nothing, as she mentioned earlier, to indicate that the authority is in any way slowing down. I would say that the Authority has higher productivity and greater efficiency than it has ever had. As far as asylum matters are concerned, we actually have a higher efficiency now than we had in 2013 and 2014. We have increased productivity by 40 percent in a year from 2015 to 2016. There, therefore, neither the government nor the authority has anything to be ashamed of, rather the opposite. I share the view that having a labour immigration that works for those who need specialists can contribute to Swedish growth and economy. That is why we have the order that we have. But no one can troll with their knees either, but we have the resources that we have, and it does not exactly help to improve the situation that the Moderates now want to cut back on them. This year, as I said, we will be feeding off the queues on the asylum section and ensuring that resources can be allocated in other ways. In reality, it already works in the way that in the vast majority of cases those who handle these cases are specialised in these cases, but it is clear that when the overall pressure has been high, it has also been difficult to keep the processing times down. Now we see that with the new situation we have, that situation will also improve.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-344	Mr President, I would like to In any case, I share the concerns of companies, especially when Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson says it will be better in a few years' time. Is it really the Swedish government's message to the companies that are actually trying to grow and develop in Sweden that they can expect an improvement in a few years' time? It won't hold. The Government of Morgan Johansson has no intention of doing anything to make things easier for companies in Sweden that need foreign expertise, but he says: You must wait until we have completed the other matters. It is boring and harmful for Sweden's companies and jobs when we do not have a government that wants to do what is needed to secure growth and economy. We are seeing today that companies are moving from Sweden because of a harmful tax burden. We see in my home district Borås and Sjuhäradsbygden a number of companies that have chosen to move out. Again, you can be part of the solution if you see that there is actually a need for a fast track for labour immigrants who want to here to strengthen Sweden's economy, pay taxes and get better growth. This isn't a fair question. It is not about us taking one group before the other, but about having an authority that can actually do two things at the same time. However, I would like to believe that Minister of State Morgan Johansson realises that there is room for improvement or, in any case, changes in the Migration Agency's process and hopes that the issues relating to work permits will be raised in the talks held between the authority and the responsible minister, although he did not mention it in his reply to me. It is not true that I do not mention labour immigration in my question. I think I've described the difficult situation. If Morgan Johansson does not choose to address these issues, it is irresponsible and not very trusting for a government that claims to protect jobs and businesses. You can't control Sweden like this.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-350	Mr President, I would like to It became the same level of this debate as in a student union debate. I never said this would improve in a few years' time. In fact, I have made two contributions that have been about the fact that this year we will have the opportunity to graze one sex and thus be able to allocate resources to the other. In addition, Mr President, we left such a mission to the Migration Agency before Christmas. We wrote in the Migration Agency's regulation letter the following: This report shall be reported to the Government in connection with the submission of its forecast in February 2017. That is to say that already next month I will receive a feedback from the Migration Agency on how to work. So do not stand here and say that I have said that this could perhaps be improved in a few years' time, because that is not the case! Now Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby has had two chances to answer my simple question: How are you going to speed up the process if you are going to cut the Migration Agency by 500 million? We did not receive an answer during this debate to that question. Perhaps we will have it in a forthcoming debate, what do I know? But, Mr President, no one should hesitate that it is the government's firm view that both asylum and labour immigration procedures should be reduced.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-353	Mr President, I would like to Mattias Bäckström Johansson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that Sweden's electricity consumers get a more reasonable price for electricity grids. First of all, I would like to agree that fair pricing of electricity grid charges is important. The previous government took some steps to ensure that electricity grid charges would be at a reasonable level. The changes mean a lower valuation of the existing assets of the electricity grid companies and thus a lower own funds base, which is a crucial component in calculating the revenue framework. These new provisions reduced, compared to the previous regulatory period, the electricity grid charges that electricity grid companies can charge during the current regulatory period running from 2016 to 2019. The previous changes have thus dampened the increase in electricity grid charges. However, the government has considered that there are reasons to investigate and develop proposals for regulating the return on electricity grid regulation, in order to ensure that the return is at a reasonable level. The Swedish Energy Market Authority has therefore only recently been tasked with producing documentation and proposals to be reported in autumn 2017. The government will thus be able to regulate returns to the next supervisory period starting in 2020. Finally, as regards the judgments adopted by the Administrative Court in December 2016, the Swedish Energy Market Authority has announced its intention to appeal against them. It is therefore too early today to see what the outcome of these judgments will be, and electricity grid companies will only be able to make use of any increase in the revenue framework once the decisions have become final.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-358	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for the answer to my interpellation. The Swedish democrats and the government are probably quite in agreement on the basics of electricity grid regulation. What is a reasonable cost should be balanced, to protect consumers from over-prices. Nevertheless, there should be plenty of room to make investments in the electricity grids so that they can be operationally safe and so that the security of supply can be maintained. The background to my interpellation is that the Swedish Energy Market Authority has recently lost a legal process in administrative law. There's a history. Electricity network regulation has changed rapidly, over a relatively short period of time, over the past two decades. It has gone from a rather unreasonable attitude through a completely unregulated period towards regulated periods, and these are perhaps most marked by lengthy legal processes. The current system is fundamentally much better than before. Investment and innovation are encouraged. It is also ensured that the generation that uses the electricity grids pays the actual cost. There is not a huge need for investment that future generations will have to absorb. However, the legal processes have led to the build-up of a backpack as the energy companies have won during the previous revenue period. It may be more familiar to politicians than to electricity customers, who may find it difficult to see why prices run away so much now that electricity costs are set. The backpack may be a little bigger because the Energy Market Inspectorate may lose the appeal. The Government points out, quite correctly, that it is not decided. But if we look a little at the fortune-telling ball, we can see that the Energy Market Inspectorate has never won a case against the electricity grid companies. So it looks pretty dark. The most likely thing is that you will also lose at a higher level and that electricity grid companies will get through the higher level of return they want. I welcome the initiatives taken with the mandate given to the Energy Market Inspectorate. However, I would like to ask the Government whether he is prepared to review the possibility of placing the calculation rate at such a level that it would not be subject to judicial review, for example. It could be a government decision.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-364	Mr President, I would like to Just as Mattias Bäckström Johansson describes, we have a great interest in continuing to invest in the electricity grids, so that they not only work today but continue to work, especially given that there is now rapid technological development. This applies, for example, to the development of smart grids. Fully implemented, they provide completely new opportunities to control energy consumption, for loads, homes and industries, in a completely different way than before. For us, of course, it is a question of finding a balance in regulation, in which we encourage this type of investment and a reasonable return on it without over-excession. These are basically natural monopolies. As a customer, you don't really have any options. Electricity is a necessity for our way of life and will continue to be so. That is why these electricity networks will be needed for a long time. For us, it's about finding that balance. I may find it unfortunate that the intended scheme – that the fees should be set for the periods 2012-2015 and 2016 – 2019 and so on – has not really applied. The court proceedings have led to the fact that much of what was supposed to apply, namely that the fees would be set before the start of the period, has not really been done that way. There have been court decisions afterwards. With these decisions they have had to take with them what Mattias Bäckström Johansson describes as backpacks. What has been won in the court proceedings but has not been able to take out can therefore be taken with you to the next period. It has created uncertainty. I think it would be good in the long term for both the industry and electricity consumers if we could make it more predictable and more secure. I have not said, therefore, that I am interfering in court proceedings. I can't do that as a minister. I think the honourable Member is fully aware of this. It is against this background that we have taken a number of measures. This applies, among other things, to the assignment that Mattias Bäckström Johansson describes, that we have commissioned the Swedish Energy Market Authority to propose tightening up the regulations. But we have also strengthened the muscles of the Energy Market Inspectorate. We have increased the appropriations for the Energy Market Inspectorate by 10 million annually, which is a fairly substantial increase, precisely in order to be able to deal with this. Now I am also looking forward to the mission that they have received and that will be delivered this year. When we have it and looked at it in detail, the government will of course take a stand. However, I would like to announce right now that I believe that a tightening up of the regulatory framework is necessary.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-370	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is also important, in our view, that some sort of change of order be achieved and that this should be done well in advance of the next revenue period, which is from 2020 onwards. Then the change can be in place so that hopefully we can avoid what has happened in the last two periods. There have been long lead times, which have affected the fee setting in the upcoming fee period. The trials have mainly concerned the calculation rate to be adopted, what is a reasonable calculation rate and the rate of return. I guess there's quite a lot of political explosive power in this. After all, it is an activity that involves having regional monopol and an activity that involves transferring a product that everyone wants and wants and for which they will pay what it costs because they are in need of it. No one will give up directly depending on current electricity prices, but you can charge the costs you think are reasonable. Somewhere there has been a break between the calculation rate that the Swedish Energy Market Authority has set and what the electricity grid companies want. I may think that there is scope for some sort of political test of the risk of having a monopoly in a market that has a service that everyone wants and for which everyone will pay what it costs. The risk to electricity grid companies is minimal. There is really no risk at all. It is unreasonable, then, for the interest rate to go by 25-30 per cent from the level set by the Energy Market Inspectorate. It is, of course, a good thing that the Energy Market Inspectorate has been given the task of reviewing this, so that over-investments are avoided. One should not be able to build up own funds where, for example, one can maintain an unfair level of contributions. They shall also review methods for determining the yield. However, there is nothing in the mission to prevent one from once again getting involved in the lengthy legal proceedings and being subject to judicial review in the administrative court. One way that some have suggested is that the government could set the calculation rate in, for example, a government decision, so that it would not be the subject of a legal process. That way you can find yourself in a situation where you do not have these lengthy processes. It can be built up backpacks during fee periods, and it can be very unsafe for the customer. There may be a 30% increase in fees, and the next period may be reduced. So it becomes very unpredictable over time. One thing is to have comments on the content of own funds. However, for the calculation rate, there should be much greater predictability as to which calculation rate should apply. It is good for customers who can see price developments on their electricity grid and also for those who will make investments and count on what is reasonable to invest and how much to count home. You need to know what calculation rate you have to start from so that not all the time when you have a big patch throw you need a legal process.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-378	Mr President, I would like to True, it has been quite a patch throw. However, it is important to remember that it is basically about the ambiguity that existed with the decisions made by the previous parliament and government. The power grid companies had that right. The regulatory framework has now been tightened up, and this is partly evident in the current review. Only parts of the regulatory framework are being tested, the so-called calculation rate that the honourable Member rightly points out. That process is in progress and, as a minister, I cannot therefore interfere with it. That is our Constitution – rightly so. On the other hand, it is clear that we need to review the regulatory framework. It is against this background that we have left these missions. I look forward to getting the result so that we can take a final decision on how this is to happen. But I would like to point out once again that it is important that we have a regulatory framework that provides incentives to invest also for the future. As has been quite rightly pointed out, this was not the case with the old regulations. It was then more advantageous to stick to the old networks as far as possible. This can also be seen in the investment needs that have now been worked up. In view of this, more predictability is very important. This means greater security for customers. There must be a reasonable balance between companies' demands for returns and consumers' need to have their electricity delivered year-round at reasonable costs. That's exactly what we're looking at. It is also that and how it should be done that the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate will make proposals on. I think that this is an important lesson from the previous periods and the confusion that has prevailed that when you take action you should think them through so that they are properly implemented – this so that you do not end up in the same situation over and over again. It will not be happy for anyone, whether for electricity grid owners or for electricity consumers, whether they are industry or households.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-385	Mr President, I would like to We're still pretty much in agreement. I hope the Council of State doesn't misunderstand me. It was not an invitation to interfere in the ongoing judicial review. I just wanted to give something to think about for the coming period to 2020, if the calculation rate were to be set by a government decision. This is not the case for the process that is now under way. I hope the Council of State doesn't misunderstand me. Shortly after an interpellation debate, I hope that the matter will be submitted to the Energy Market Inspectorate. The Swedish Democrats and I will, of course, follow the issue, the outcome of the investigation and the pieces that can be put in place for the next revenue period. We believe that further adjustments are necessary in order to move the regulation forward. It is important for many small industrial companies, for private customers and for competitiveness that we can have balanced electricity grid prices and that they stand between the interests of investments in electricity grids, of having a high level of operational and supply security, and of the interest not to charge over-prices that hamper the competitiveness of various products that are processed and intended to be placed on a global market. It is important to continue work to close the gaps that still exist in existing electricity grid regulation. With this, I thank you for the debate.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-390	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for an urgent debate! Both the previous year and this year are very eventful years for the energy sector in our country. In the two years that I have had the privilege of being Minister of Energy, we have started and implemented a large number of processes to secure what we have every right to demand works in our country, namely a stable energy and electricity system. We have carried out a series of investigations and decisions. The Energy Commission – where the honourable Member himself has participated – has, of course, gone through most of our energy system. We also have a cross-block agreement at the bottom. This year, we will also present a large number of proposals to Parliament for consideration and decisions that will ensure a stable and secure supply of electricity at competitive prices for a long time to come. This should also be done with – as far as possible – minimal environmental impact. Add to this that there should also be a tightening of the regulatory system for electricity networks. They will work, and for them to do so, you need to make continuous investments. This is particularly important at a time of rapid technological development that opens up completely new opportunities. But it must be done at a reasonable level and in a way that creates legitimacy and trust in this system. I have already announced that we are looking forward to some tightening up and that the Energy Market Inspectorate is given the resources and the task of presenting a basis for this before the government sets its foot down.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-394	Mr President, I would like to Bengt Eliasson has asked me if I intend to work for additional directives to the LSS investigation where it is commissioned to: Bengt Eliasson has also asked me if it is my intention to: I have pointed out in several previous debates that, since the beginning of the reform, the reimbursement of assistance and its cost development have been the subject of investigations and reviews without more stable solutions to the problems highlighted. This also applies during the time the Liberals were in the government. Over the last ten years, the cost of assistance compensation has almost doubled, while the number of users has increased only slightly. During the same period, the average number of hours supported has increased from 103 to 127 hours per week. There are several reports and investigations that describe the reasons for the increase in the cost of assistance compensation. None of these explain all the causation, but we know a lot about the development after all. Among other things, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency notes in its recent reports that the reasons for the hourly increase are several. The Social Insurance Agency points out that the number of hours granted for so-called supervision is increasing and that children, as parental responsibility decreases, are granted more hours with assistance allowance. In addition, Försäkringskassan points out that users who have private organisers also have a faster hourly increase than those who have a municipal organiser. The number of hours also increases significantly in the case of a change from a municipal organizer to a private one. The Social Insurance Agency estimates that private organisers are more likely to apply for more hours than others. Against this background, the LSS investigation's task is to analyse the role of private organisers in the development of the cost of assistance. This also touches Bengt Eliasson's questions to me linked to the fact that some organizers today offer legal support to persons with assistance compensation. The LSS investigation has the task of examining, on the one hand, the possibilities of legally limiting the influence of the organisers on applications for support and, on the other hand, the ways in which the public could assist persons applying for personal assistance with independent legal support. This work also includes providing legal analyses and impact assessments of the proposals that the investigation wants to make. I cannot and do not wish to precede the work of the investigation by expressing my opinion on proposals that the investigation may provide on legal support to persons applying for personal assistance or on the intentions and assessments that the government will make in relation to these proposals. Furthermore, Bengt Eliasson points out in one of the interpellations that there is great concern among assistance recipients in the light of the various initiatives taken by the government in 2016 on the issue of assistance. During 2016, the government has taken two initiatives in particular. Partly, the Government appointed the LSS investigation, and partly received a new goal for the assistance compensation where, among other things, the hourly development is mentioned. In addition to these measures, other things have happened that have nothing to do with the government's initiative. In 2016, two preliminary rulings concerning supervision as basic needs and so-called self-care had an impact on the application of the legislation by Försäkringskassan. In view of this, the government has taken steps to increase awareness of the consequences of these new precedents for people with personal assistance. In this context, it is important to emphasise that it is the Social Insurance Agency and not the Government that interprets and applies the legislation. Several of the questions that Bengt Eliasson is asking me concern decisions on additional directives for the LSS investigation. My assessment is that the investigation has an extensive mission with the opportunity to make proposals in all the areas that Bengt Eliasson requests. For example, the investigative task already involves carrying out socio-economic impact assessments of the proposals submitted. To sum up, additional directives for the investigation in the areas requested by Bengt Eliasson are not currently justified.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-407	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for a comprehensive answer. I can note with some sadness that the Government's response treats assistance compensation in its entirety as a problem that needs to be resolved. It becomes clear that the Government sees it as a self-worth to dampen the development of costs. Liberals do not share this view and consider this to be a wrong procedure. The reasons for the development of costs should first be identified. LSS and personal assistance are one of the most important freedom reforms in the social area. The reform needs to be protected and developed. Of course, it also needs to be modernised and renewed, and this requires studies and sharp proposals. But basically, the LSS is not a problem. Of course, tax money should be used as efficiently as possible, and crimes should be prosecuted. Of course, we fully agree on this. But you cannot, I believe, do as the government has done now: first decide that it costs too much and then analyse what the costs consist of. Mr President, I would like to The Social Insurance Agency has not carried out a thorough analysis of the extent of fraud and inaccuracies since 2010, and this was done on figures from 2008. A method was used that was certainly not suitable for cross-confident conclusions but more for broad assumptions. Since then, a number of major regulatory changes have taken place, not least on the initiative of the Alliance Government but also later. Many of these were aimed at reducing the risk of misuse. Yet these almost nine years old and very uncertain data, among others the Government, are being used as an absolute truth for today's situation. The Government's response states that the development of costs is due, among other things, to the fact that children become adults. It is natural that the need for hours increases when people are going out into life and on their own and no longer have parental support. The Government is critical of hourly development. The question is whether she is critical of the increase in hours when children grow up. It is still difficult for us politicians to change such a thing. Another reason for increased costs is the increase in supervisory assistance. But Försäkringskassan has already announced that this will decrease due to the 2015 Supreme Administrative Court ruling. There are additional factors that we do not yet have good explanations for, as the Swedish Social Insurance Agency also says in its own reports. Nevertheless, the Government can make a clear decision even before these analyses are made that costs should be reduced and that it should be possible to do so without anyone who currently has assistance having to worry. Mr President, I would like to In fact, I do not quite understand how this is connected, and I would like to hear the Minister develop his thoughts on this.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-415	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Eliasson, who has raised these important issues! A week ago I stood here and asked Minister Åsa Regnér about LSS and the worrying developments in this area. I am being contacted, Mr President, by people who are directly affected by these issues. They say that if they cannot live with dignity, they consider the possibility of at least dying with dignity. This is the effect of the policy that the government is pursuing today, and this is how Sweden's solidarity-based welfare society has become. The answer that I was hoping for at the time did not exist. However, I would like to highlight once again the reformulated government regulation letter because it relates to this. The aim is to combat over-exploitation and criminal use with a particular focus on increasing hourly development. This is nothing more than a picture of the old directive, which aims to save money and to discredit those concerned. In the previous debate, I pointed out that the logic of the government has serious shortcomings and that there are a number of other explanations for an increase in the number of assistance hours than those claimed by the government in order to save money. The answer I received was: a Swedish democrat does not think it is fair to prosecute crime – it was an interesting information. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to At last, the Government speaks clearly. We now got a little bit of honesty in the government's real view of the issue. According to the government, 10% of assistance payments go to falsification and criminality, and then we know what we have to expect in this area. Last week I argued that the Social Insurance Office's lawyers read laws that the hell read the Bible in their zeal to make it more difficult for people to enjoy their rights. The government seems to read reports about assistance in the same way. The new granting of assistance has fallen to about 30 percent, which is a dramatic reduction. This must mean that the other 70% were simply criminal fortune-seekers who had been countered in the gate. It's a good thing for welfare! It is no wonder that the number of users is not increasing. In addition to the government's timely assessment that over-exploitation can be attributed to the aforementioned explanation, there are, in fact, other possible reasons why costs and hourly numbers are increasing, Mr President. But this does not seem to be of interest to the government, as it is counterproductive. I wish to speak of cause and effect. When a law of freedom and rights such as the LSS is restricted and becomes difficult for individuals to access, lawyers are needed to help them get access to this right and freedom. They are not applying for this because they are swindling or costing society money, but because it is about the right to a dignified life. The law recognizes this right. As things stand, however, they cannot have access to this; they need legal assistance. This puts the government's burden on those in need and uses as a motive to save even more money. How can this be considered a humane policy? Can the Government understand that the government and the authority's own actions have forced such a development with the start of compromising the recognition of people's rights? When the government talks about the accuracy of assistance, it is usually pointed out that there are other options that can increase the accuracy of the hit. To make it difficult for people to even be able to seek and get assistance is an excellent suggestion if what they want is to save money. After all, those affected cannot complain very loudly because their right to support and their legal representation have been deprived of them. It's a accurate way to reduce hourly development. It is creative, I admit, Mr President, but utterly reprehensible and despicable if one has any empathy and strives for a community of solidarity. So what is the government doing more than smearing the issue of assistance and putting the issue and people's concerns and suffering on the future? I see no response to this in the interpellation response we have before us today. (Andre VICE TALMANN: I would ask the honourable Member to try to avoid profanity in the speaker's chair, even if it was referred to a known concept. )
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-429	Mr President, I would like to The cost trend we are seeing in terms of assistance payments is due to a number of things, and I tried to mention some factual reasons. I have nothing against them. However, I have a slight objection to the wrong use of the funds to be spent on vulnerable people with strong rights. We have a number of reports, including new reports, which say that there are misuses of some of the EUR 30 billion involved. It is said that the funds are being used for even more lawyers. That's why the investigation is looking at whether it's possible to decouple the lawyers from the companies. I think that's reasonable. I'm not against lawyers. There are quite large profits in these areas. These are companies that are listed. Very big profits are made; you need to look at that. The funds are used for consultants. I want the funds to go to those who are entitled to this reform. When so many data show that much of taxpayers' money – I think perhaps as much as 10% is much when it comes to 30 billion – goes to things that the reform was not intended for, then I have a responsibility to something about it. There are 1 000 companies that have established themselves in this area, where there are barely 16 000 users. It says something about the companies' expectations of profits. I am not against private actors here – I believe that many times they provide very good services and services. I think it is reasonable and important for the users to be able to decide for themselves, but that does not mean that there should be no rules or that you should not care about the rules. To Bengt Eliasson I want to say that I know that your commitment is genuine; it is really visible, and we have had many such debates before. You really care about the users – I don't think anyone doubts. You also care very much about the companies and the private operators. But do you care about taxpayers' money? There are very great needs in these groups. That's a lot of money. I think that taxpayers' money should be used for them. What suggestions do you have to better ensure that the funds are actually used as intended? I'd like to hear that. I've set up this investigation to see to it. I have ensured that the responsible authority checks that the funds are used for the right things. I'm going to go deeper with the companies. The regulatory letters include the task of ensuring that the funds are used as intended to a greater extent. We have also given the mission to ensure that individuals do not end up between the chairs. As regards the basic needs and the judgments we have spoken about, we have submitted the report that came before Christmas to the investigation. It is important to take a holistic approach and to ensure the interests of rightholders while ensuring that the funds are used properly. That's what I'm doing.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-440	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answers! It is true: we have debated this issue many times, both IRL, as it is called in New Swedish, and on debate pages. I assume that the Government also faces and notices the great concern that actually exists among aid beneficiaries. With regard to legal support and the number of companies, it is mostly about the freedom of choice of individuals. It is the one that has driven out the many companies, and most of them are very small. But I also assume that the Government meets the people who do not dare to contact the Social Insurance Agency anymore for fear of losing the support they have today – people like the guy I met last week, who hold their breath every time the phone rings if the caller were to introduce themselves as a government administrator. Mr President, I would like to I note that in this debate, too, the Government does not give any indication as to what the alternatives to personal assistance are. Everyone with some insight in reality knows that it is about institutional housing, more home care and, above all, an increased burden on relatives and relatives. There's nothing else. Those concerned will have good reason to remain concerned. I have asked the question before, and I ask it again: what, according to the Government, are the alternatives to personal assistance, because cost development is to be broken? Today's response to my interpellations, Mr President, means that the investigation, as required by the directives, should propose cuts in assistance and that they remain. After all, I have asked the Government whether she would be willing to give the investigation the opportunity to make proposals without requiring cost reductions. On this point, the directives are very clear. There is no room for the investigator to make proposals that involve unchanged or increased costs of assistance, even if the investigator concludes that the cost increase so far is due to an increase in needs – we do not know that yet; we will see – and not even if the investigator decides that assistance is the most cost-effective and accurate response. Even then, the investigator cannot suggest that the operation be expanded. The government is not prepared to first find out what the hourly development depends on and then draw its conclusions. The concerns of those concerned are therefore to some extent well-founded. And I wonder: why does the Government not take this concern a note? As the Government itself states in its response, it was only in 2016 that the Social Insurance Agency started to apply the judgments that led to so many lost their assistance. I know, of course, that the Government may not instruct Försäkringskassan in detail on how to interpret its laws, but in the regulatory letter that Åsa Regnér herself mentions, the Government told Försäkringskassan that it would become tougher in its assessments, and then it became so. More than one person a day has lost his or her assistance allowance. Many with very extensive disabilities have had their lives completely twisted.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-449	Mr President, I would like to Just because you say something enough times doesn't make it true. These 10 percent that are constantly mentioned are completely devoid of substance. The fact that there is a great difference between our view and that of the government on this issue is obvious, but I am still curious as to what these alternative, more accurate solutions the government is talking about may be. Is it possible that the Social Democrats are looking to dust off their old tried and tested solutions of institutionalising people? If it is not a question of pure greed on the part of the government, but indeed of accurate action, as it is so finely said, why are there no concrete examples of what these accurate actions would mean? This coincides with the government's reluctance to provide legal assistance to persons seeking assistance and using private assistance coordinators. Mr President, I would like to The government turns itself in and out in search of an explanation as to why users are exposing themselves to exploitation by profit-hungry private assistance coordinators when they can choose the excellent municipal alternative. Yet users choose the private organisers, who have increased their market share from about 20 to 65 percent. Unfortunately, the government's aversion to private alternatives is nothing more than an ideological issue, Mr President. This, in combination with the government's governing party's historical view of people with disabilities and the attitude that big brother knows best, unfortunately results. I wish that the government could relate to real politics and put the interests of the citizens concerned first. Mr President, I would like to The Government Åsa Regnér often insists persistently that the Government has not amended any laws regarding LSS. But it is not possible to blame previous governments for any time, when the only result the government can show is investigations aimed at saving money so that you can roll your thumbs while people's lives are broken and some even die as a result of the government's empathetic passivity and the pursuit of crowns.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-455	Mr President, I would like to I do not believe that the Swedish Democrats should lecture me on the historical human view of the party and the view of the equal value of people. The Government believes that personal assistance and the Act on Support and Service have been, is and should be an extremely important reform of rights that ensures a dignified and adequate, good life for people with disabilities. Within the framework of that legislation, there are a number of actions. Liberals often recall that they were very operational when this law was introduced. Why, then, do they think that it is wrong to review the efforts now that it has been quite a few years? I never understood that. After all, you Liberals themselves proposed it. After all, there are a number of judgments that have fallen in relation to this law because it is by its nature quite wide. One of the most discussed came in 2012. Why didn't you do anything, Bengt Eliasson? Then why didn't you have this glow? You could have reviewed the law then. It is not true that people have only now been rejected and are in difficult legal processes that are certainly extremely strenuous and in different ways causing it in people's lives. This has happened before. Then why didn't you do anything about it if you thought the judges didn't follow the intentions of the law? It is not true that Försäkringskassan has only begun to pay attention to judgments in 2016. I also find it rather unpleasant to claim that we have authorities that do not follow their mission. You'd better have a little more on your feet. It is the authorities who are supposed to apply judgments. Then again, I wonder: if we know that taxpayers' money is being used incorrectly and does not benefit users without rogue private organisers, why are there no proposals on your part, Bengt Eliasson? You should be very upset about this, because it's about funds that were meant to go to vulnerable users. I know that there are very many serious private organisers who offer very good quality support and service, but there are also those who are not serious. Why don't you have any suggestions about this? I find that difficult to understand. It's connected.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-461	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. We have put forward a number of proposals. I am one of those who, in previous years' debates, may have nagging most of all about the need for a broad LSS investigation, precisely because it needs to be modernised. It is an old piece of legislation that now needs to be modernised and renewed for the benefit of users. But to have the economic perspective of the directives alone, as it is now, is what the criticism is primarily about. I understand that Åsa Regnér is at times a bit irritated with me and perhaps also with the debate that is constantly being held. But that is exactly what the criticism of the government is about. It is tough but also well-founded, because you have a very one-sided approach. The so-called practice, as it has become, is truly contrary to the intentions of the legislation. We have also had proposals on how this would be changed, and the legislation needs to be amended. It seems to me that the Government feels the same, that the case law has developed at least in part unhappily. Then it is not in my hand but in Åsa Regnér's hand to suggest a fast track for this. We cannot wait, or rather, those who have lost their assistance cannot wait. Then we are far away in 2019. The Government has the power and opportunity to assign the investigation to give priority to the consideration of this issue, which, on behalf of the Government, was based until now in December. Does the Government really not want to do that?
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-465	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for this debate, Bengt Eliasson! I really appreciate your commitment. It is in this way that policy is developed and good proposals are made. However, I am frustrated because I still do not hear what your proposal is to get to the misuse of the funds. I do not understand why it is so difficult for you to have such proposals at the same time. After all, it will be a message to taxpayers that they spend their money a little anyway, and I think that is a bad message. I think it is important to use the funds for what they were intended for, not least for vulnerable people who are entitled to them. The investigation we have set up takes a holistic approach to the law on support and service. The starting point is how to ensure rights and costs so that we have a law that will continue to work in the future. It's got to work. At the same time, we have made a number of efforts that your government, Bengt Eliasson, could have made. It was we who initiated the report that the ISF has written, which has analysed how judgments have affected and possibly changed reality in relation to the law. That's why we're handing it over too. It is we who have written in the regulation letter that you should review how you can ensure that people do not end up between the chairs and how to notify each other when there are different principals, which it still is, to ensure that you have knowledge of the different individuals. We need to take a holistic approach to this. I'm not annoyed. I firmly believe that we must do this. I thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for the debate and for your commitment!
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-469	Mr President, I would like to Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether it was my intention and the government's intention to decide on the new legislation that support housing should be in the form of single rooms and whether the regulations and general guidelines of the National Board of Health and Welfare comply with our intentions with the legislation. Alexandra Anstrell has also asked me if I and the government intend to simplify for Sweden's municipalities in order to make it easier for young people to provide support housing in a good way. Finally, Alexandra Anstrell has asked me if it is my assessment that Municipality Sweden will solve the equation of having room for everyone when the conditions are for supporting housing to be single rooms while we have an acute housing shortage and the compensation from the state is drastically reduced. I welcome the issues and appreciate that we seem to share the ambition that the new form of investment housing should be a well-functioning complement to the other forms of investment. On 1 January 2016, the new form of investment was introduced in support housing for children and young people aged 16 to 20. Possible target groups are children and young people who have previously been placed, children and young people living in an unsatisfactory home environment and unaccompanied minors. The Government considered it urgent that more forms of placement be available for children and young people who respond to the actual needs of children and young people. The municipalities also asked for more alternatives for additional forms of investment. Supported housing was therefore introduced as an additional legally regulated investment option for children and young people who do not need care and treatment interventions that justify placement in family homes or homes for care or housing, HVB. The proposal shows that the main purpose of the new form of placement is to train and prepare the child or the child for an independent living and adult life, in safe forms, and that it is best achieved by having his or her own accommodation. With their own accommodation, the Government refers to housing that is more independent than HVB, i.e. that the child or the young person lives in an apartment or in a similar housing solution. However, your own housing does not exclude shared housing with other children or young people who are placed in assisted housing, as is also stated in the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations and general guidelines on support housing. Municipalities also have the opportunity to make support housing available through other housing solutions. For example, student corridors or similar accommodation in connection with a folk high school where the child or the child has his or her own room. On behalf of the Government, the National Board of Health and Welfare has begun to monitor and evaluate the new form of investment. At the end of November 2016, the National Board of Health and Welfare submitted a partial report on the work. The National Board of Health and Welfare presents challenges for municipalities in the process of starting assisted housing. Among other things, there are difficulties in finding suitable premises, which is largely considered to be due to an already strained situation in the housing market. The Authority will continue to monitor and assess how the form of housing support responds to the needs of girls and boys as well as adults and how support housing is designed and staffed. I fully understand that the work of starting support housing is not free from challenges. Of course, a number of things affect the work, not least the continuing strained situation in social services due to the reception of refugees and the fact that we have a societal challenge in organising new housing. In addition, the placement of children in different forms of investment, including support housing, shall be based on an individual assessment based on the best interests of the child, in accordance with the Social Services Act. This means that the needs of assisted housing can shift for different municipalities and over time. The National Board of Health and Welfare has reported that a total of 140 municipalities have started supporting housing in 2016. The trend is that more and more supported housing is being started, and this is happening at a faster pace. The Authority's impression is that all municipalities aim to have access to assisted housing in July 2017, when the new compensation system for the reception of unaccompanied minors and young people enters into force. These are positive signals. At present, the Government has no plans to take specific measures regarding the possibility for municipalities to start assisted housing. But we will continue to monitor developments closely.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-480	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Regnér, for your answer! In Haninge, from which I come, today we have an HVB home with 15 seats. It will now be converted into a support home to meet the need for accommodation for unaccompanied minors and to meet the new compensation, which starts to fall out from this summer. For all the audience, I can take this opportunity to tell you that the compensation will be lower as of this summer. Then we want good accommodation that is also within the financial framework. The problem, Mr President, is the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations and general advice on assisted housing, decided in May 2016. In those regulations we can read that the own accommodations included in a supported housing should be home-like and consist of rooms for accommodation, room for cooking and meals, and rooms for personal hygiene. That's great. In addition, there is general advice that a private dwelling should consist of a separate apartment that the located one disposes of. However, if deemed appropriate, an individual accommodation may consist of a room for accommodation and spaces shared with other children or young people who are placed in the support housing. It's still good. But in 5th chapter. Section 2 points Socialstyrelsen to this: In the event of placement in an assisted living home, the child or the young person in accordance with paragraph 1 must have their own accommodation. My interpellation is about whether it is a single or double room that applies. Mr President, I would like to With the new legislation on assisted housing, municipalities around Sweden seem to do very different. The legislation and the guidelines of the National Board of Health and Welfare are thus interpreted differently. Some municipalities make the interpretation that you can't share rooms, that is, that everyone should have single rooms. Other municipalities make the interpretation that you can share a room. Only here in Stockholm County – I have emailed my colleagues – it looks very different. Today there is an acute housing shortage in many municipalities. If you are going to follow the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's guidelines on giving each child a room of their own, it will mean that you have to reduce the total number of places to live. Today it is common to share a room in an accommodation, such as an HVB accommodation. When it comes to our example in Haninge, this would mean that 15 places in an HVB home would become a support housing for eight people in order not to commit a crime or go against the regulations of the National Board of Health and Welfare, as you have understood them. In its speech, the Government of Regnér stated: ..................................................... Can I and Kommunsverige take the Government's answer as that it is okay to share a room in an assisted home, just like in an HVB home, so that, for example, you do not have to reduce the existing 15 places in an HVB home to 8? Is it a single room that applies, or is it okay with a double room? That's my question.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-487	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Alexandra Anstrell, for the interpellation and for your commitment to these social issues! In one way it is a normal Friday, but in another way it certainly is not. It is actually the day after your party opened to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. It touches me very deeply. I cannot just skip it when we stand in this Chamber. It is a very big change and deterioration, as I see it, of Swedish politics. When it comes to supporting housing and different forms of placement in social services, the child's needs must always be taken into account. The girl or boy standing in front of you shall be judged to live in one or the other place on the basis of his or her opportunities, rights and situation. What happened in autumn 2015 was that there were many unaccompanied at once. Social services didn't have time – that's just the way it is. Supported housing, however, is not just for unaccompanied people – sometimes we talk about it as if it were like that. It is a form of living that was needed and requested earlier. There were also proposals to that effect. However, I am pleased that we were able to work together on introducing this form of housing relatively quickly, because we needed more opportunities in the situation that was. I know that social services have devoted 2016 – and they continue to do so in 2017 – to making assessments of unaccompanied minors and other children. Children who are able to take on more independent responsibility and who do not need care in the same way as those who live at HVB should be able to live in assisted housing. Then they should be able to have adults in their vicinity, but they do not need care or the care that you need at an HVB. In fact, many young people who do not have to live at HVB have done so and probably still do so in many places, for there have been no other alternatives. Now we are changing so that the children who are suitable for living in assisted housing will do so. I won't interfere in the way the local authorities do it. They must comply with the law, and they must comply with regulations. They should make assessments based on the needs of the children and place the children. I suppose this is how it is: If you estimate that two children can live in an assisted home and if for some reason they want to live together and everyone agrees on it, it can certainly be a good solution. I'm not the one who's gonna put the kids. I won't interfere. However, we need to ensure that there is a reception and a social service that works. That is why we have strengthened social services by means of staffing, for example. That is why we have introduced this form of housing. And that's why we're gonna follow it up. This is news, and there will certainly be questions. That's why it's good to discuss it. I will follow it up, but I see and note in the follow-up by the National Board of Health and Welfare that most people are trying to solve this. There is a housing shortage in Sweden. Yes, I'm aware of that. That is why we have incentives for housing. Much is also being built in Sweden. We are going to follow the question, but I still think it is absolutely necessary that we have this form of support housing. We did not have a sustainable system before when only HVB existed.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-495	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Regnér, for your answer! I am pleased that the Minister should not interfere in individual investment decisions. I do not want to do that either, but I think it is important that we have clear guidelines for Sweden's municipalities. The form of housing support is aimed at children and young people aged 16 – 20 who have a lack of family support and who are deemed to be able to live in their own homes with adapted support without special care or treatment needs. In support housing, children and young people can train to live in their own home and be prepared for independent living and adult life. How do you become independent? I think you become independent when you take power and control over your own life. Does that require a single room? That's the question. Mr President, I would like to We are six siblings in my family, raised together on a farm in Jämtland. I think we have grown up to be very independent people, even though we have shared rooms in different constellations throughout our childhood. Living in single rooms alone cannot be the most important factor in becoming independent, I think. I also believe that it is possible to become more independent even if you share a room because you have to show respect for another person. We Moderates are clear that we want more people to be able to share housing, and we believe that the legislation here is very unclear, especially the guidelines. Mr President, I would like to The guidelines become a problem when Swedish municipalities interpret them differently. As I said in my opening speech, several municipalities are now planning single rooms, others are planning double rooms and a third group is planning both. What's the deal? The Government says in its reply that the government currently has no plans to take specific measures to sort this out with single or double rooms. Surely the Government must agree that this is untenable. Surely a system must be predictable, legally secure and equal. The equation doesn't make sense.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-503	Mr President, I would like to In Sweden we have authorities responsible for implementing decisions and for interpreting legislation. That's not my job. The intention with the legislation was to offer more accommodation options than the two that existed before, i.e. family homes and HVB. We know that some older teenagers in particular live and live in HVB, even though they do not need the care, care and supervision that HVB homes should offer. That is why there was a very clear majority in favour of the introduction of assisted housing. Supported housing requires that older teenagers who are still children who are deemed to be able to live there are more able to take care of themselves and prepare for adulthood. Of course, in order to become an independent individual, as the honourable Member is talking about, a great deal is required. One idea with support housing is that one should be able to prepare for taking responsibility for one's own economy and life when one then comes out to an ordinary housing market and is going to establish oneself in one's adult life. But as I said: If there are two people who are going to live in support housing and everyone involved thinks it's a good idea that they live together, not least they themselves, I shouldn't interfere with it.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-507	Mr President, I would like to I asked whether it was the intention of Minister Regnér and the Government to decide on the new legislation – the law is still being passed in here and not with the authority; they should interpret it – that support housing should be in the form of single rooms. I don't think I'm getting any answers here. It is clear that the intention was a single room, and I have to ask: Is it the Minister's intention to become independent only in single rooms? How else are we going to tell our municipalities what's going on? Legislation and guidelines must be consistent and simple for municipalities to complete, and then we cannot stand here and be so unclear. Again, Åsa Regnér: Yes or no? Is double room okay?
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-509	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the interpellation! I think I've answered this a number of times. I'll follow it up, and that's my final word. I want this reform to serve as a home for older children who will soon be on their own and who are not deemed to need HVB. You're supposed to follow the law. Now the National Board of Health and Welfare has interpreted it in its guidelines, and I will follow up how this works.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-511	Mr President, I would like to Runar Filper has asked me, firstly, whether I see problems with the shape of the right of appeal today and, secondly, whether I intend to take the initiative to investigate the consequences of this legislation and to come back with proposals on how to improve legislation and the application of the right of access to justice. Let me begin by saying that I understand that late notification of hunting may hamper a long-term predatory policy and cause inconvenience to the hunters who have prepared for the hunt by planning trips, booking accommodations and taking out holiday days. In order to achieve a faster, more efficient and more equivalent decision-making process, the Government has introduced an urgency requirement for the handling of cases in court for the pursuit of the major predators and for the handling by the authorities of cases concerning the hunting of species protected by the Species and Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive. The government has also introduced a system that means that appeals of decisions on hunting for large predators are examined by one and the same court, the administrative court in Luleå. In addition, in order for any appeals to be reviewed before the start of the hunting period for wolf, the Government has introduced a regime whereby decisions on the licensing of wolf may, as a general rule, be taken no later than 1 October. This year's licence hunt has also been carried out as planned. In each case, the authorities and courts decide whether an appeal is admissible. As regards the associations Nordulv and Wolf Association Sweden, appeals have previously been appealed by the Administrative Court of Appeal in Sundsvall, but the same Administrative Court of Appeal has in subsequent judgments assessed that the associations have the right to appeal decisions covered by the Aarhus Convention, such as decisions on the pursuit of wolf. Since 2005, Sweden has been a party to the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Matters, the so-called Aarhus Convention. The Convention is also part of the EU legal order. The aim of the Convention is to give everyone the opportunity to contribute to protecting the right of present and future generations to live in a good and healthy environment. As a Party to the Convention, Sweden shall ensure that the public has the right to access environmental information and the right to participate, under the conditions laid down in the Convention, in environmental decision-making processes. The Convention also contains provisions allowing the public concerned access to justice in environmental matters. Sweden is obliged to ensure that acts and omissions by persons and authorities that violate environmental legislation can be tried by a court or administrative order. The public concerned refers, inter alia, to civil society organisations that promote environmental protection. It is a general principle of administrative law that decisions of administrative authorities involving some form of legal effect should be subject to appeal. With regard to issues relating to hunting for species which, like the wolf, fall within the scope of the EU Species and Habitats Directive, both the European Court of Justice and the Supreme Administrative Court have ruled that individuals, including environmental organisations, must have the opportunity to have questions on whether the obligations of the Directive are met at national level reviewed in court. Decisions on hunting of species covered by the Species and Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive should therefore be subject to judicial review. This is in line with the long-standing idea behind environmental organisations' rights of speech, which is that they represent the interests of the public. The Government considers it important to strengthen public access to environmental information, judicial review and participation in decision-making processes. However, each measure must, of course, be preceded by a careful balance between different interests and on the basis of their respective conditions. There are several examples of issues addressed by the Government concerning public access to justice, including the complaints of environmental organisations in the Environmental Code. Issues of access to justice are also part of the current legal review of the Forest Protection Act.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-521	Mr President, I would like to I will begin by thanking the Minister for the answer to the interpellation. The crux of the matter and the problem to which I call for answers are the right of small, barely existing, non-profit associations to appeal against certain judgments and decisions relating to the environmental code. It has had major negative consequences – the constant appeals of government decisions have stopped hunting decisions time after time, year after year. This has brought great concern and disappointment to the rural population that is constantly affected by predatory attacks on cattle and dogs. Wildlife treatment in the true sense of the word has been severely restricted, and the concentration of wolf has become extremely troublesome locally and regionally in terms of both domestic attacks and that it has severely drained the elk tribe. Värmland, from which I come, had ten years ago Sweden's most powerful elk tribe. Per 1,000 hectares we had the most moose in the country. Now we have sunk so much that only Blekinge and Halland have a shriller elk trunk than Värmland. The Minister for the Environment writes in her reply that she understands that late notification of hunting can hamper long-term predatory policy and cause inconvenience to hunters who have prepared for hunting. That's right, but it's not just about inconvenience to the hunters. The Minister for the Environment completely forgets those who are really concerned: owners of cattle, dog owners and worried parents of young children in areas where wolves and other predators iron around the knots. It is not so fun to have your children standing on a gravel road several hundred meters from the home while waiting for the school shooting and knowing that there is wolf in the area, that you live in a vargrevir. The whole of Värmland consists of vargrevir, large parts of Dalarna and Hälsingland as well. The urgent requirement imposed by the government, that an appeal against protection and licence hunting should be dealt with as a matter of urgency with priority in the court, is, of course, a good thing. The question is just how it will work in practice. In order to avoid wolf hunting being cancelled year after year, a supplement should be included in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's regulations that the hunting time should be extended regardless of whether the regular hunting time is over when a late court ruling comes. This has been exercised by the SD as a complement to the urgency requirement if court rulings are still delayed. That environmental organisations should be able to appeal against decisions that cause industrial impact on the environment as well as new road routes etc., we see as important and self-evident. An appeal against hunting decisions is also self-evident. As the Minister says, the EU Court of Justice and the Supreme Administrative Court have ruled that an appeal against hunting decisions should be admissible in court. This led to the cancellation of huntings at once in 2016 when it was introduced as in 2012, ‐ 13 and ‐ 14, when it used to apply. In 2013, three wolves were shot before the hunt was cancelled, to be said. Here, however, there is the question of the validity and the right of appeal, the fact that a small organisation of 100 members is allowed to speak to the public and how the criteria for appeal are measured and assessed. That is why we believe that the government should clearly investigate the consequences of this legislation and come back with proposals on how to improve legislation and application. The Species and Habitats Directive dates from ‐ 92. At that time there was hardly any wolf in Sweden. The Birds Directive is even older, from ‐ 79. The conditions have changed, and we cannot stare blindly at an old directive when our fauna has been expanded and we have a completely different problem than we had at the time.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-531	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my first speech, it is decided by the court who has the opportunity to appeal. The decision on each individual case is determined in accordance with the principles set out in the Aarhus Convention, which is also EU law. It's not hip like hips, it's well-structured and clear. There are clear limits. The issue of the organisations mentioned in the interpellation is over-played. There are later judgments than the one mentioned in the interpellation that sort it out, and the courts have ruled that these very organisations have the right to appeal under the rules. I am pleased that there is broad consensus on the possibility for environmental organisations to appeal environmental decisions, including hunting decisions. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has once in Sweden carefully looked at this way of working and stated in its report the following: The views and factual data provided by environmental organisations are valuable, as an organisation can highlight certain aspects of a comprehensive investigation material and sometimes induce applicants and review authorities to deepen reasoning and justify positions more clearly. Through their expertise, environmental organisations have contributed to better decision-making and, in some cases, strengthened environmental assessment in certain cases. Appeals by environmental organisations have also contributed to the development of practice in the field of the environmental code. By submitting additional evidence and arguing on the basis of the general environmental interest, an environmental organisation can contribute to a wider range of issues that a review authority has to consider. In addition, an organisation is often better placed than individual stakeholders to express in a concentrated and knowledgeable way the views of both individuals and organisations. The Committee of the Environmental Codes concluded that environmental organisations play an important role in the environmental assessment and that, overall, there is no support for the possibility of taking part in environmental matters at first instance or the right to appeal being abused by environmental organisations for any improper purpose, such as delaying decisions. I understand that the principle we are working on, that environmental organisations should have the right to appeal, is well established in the Riksdag. We've been looking at how it works. What has happened in recent years is that the government has created order and order in the decisions on hunting in Sweden. It is a fairly new order, but it is much more stringent. Now there are clear processing times, and it is clearly managed when during the year the decisions will be handled. It provides the opportunity for a much better order that can lay the foundations for broad understanding and acceptance of the policies pursued.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-539	Mr President, I would like to That there is now a new order in which appeals of decisions on hunting for mare predators are examined by one and the same court, the Administrative Court of Luleå, is good and creates continuity. It's a new order that's good. It is also good that decisions on the hunting of wolves should be made no later than 1 October, as this gives the opportunity to finish the process before the hunt begins. So not everything is bad. There are also good things, even from our horizon. Being able to appeal against government decisions is obvious in a legally secure society. We all agree on that. Equally important and, of course, it should be that those affected and affected should have the right to speak. The right to speak should reasonably give greater influence to the affected rural population and local associations, businesses and village groups. It is these who are affected by problems and authority decisions and who have natural and historical roots in the area where the problem lies. Today, secret societies that do not have the slightest base in these areas and areas still have to appeal against hunting decisions, because it allows the right to speak. The current regulatory framework is, to say the least, strange and rejected by us Swedish democrats in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture. It is true, as the Minister for the Environment says in his reply, that the Nordulv and Wolf Association associations first had their appeals rejected in the Administrative Court of Appeal and then were deemed to have the right to appeal against decisions falling within the scope of the Aarhus Convention. As late as the day before Christmas, I think there was a new rash there. When the right of appeal was first rejected, both associations lost their right to speak because of false names, inadequate certificates, missing surnames and pseudonyms. If you go into Nordulv's page you can see that it is enough name to become a member. No address or other identification information is required. It alone shows that it is very difficult to determine whether such an association is serious or not. I would like the government to review the legislation so that the rights of environmental organisations are more restrictive. It is a very important issue that SD will continue to push until this becomes a reality. It is remarkable that an o rganisation that has reached 100 members counting all over Sweden should have a right of appeal and be able to appeal and stop decisions wherever they have never set foot. These are decisions that they are not affected by in any way. But the locals, who have their roots there, have big problems. Activities and industries are made more difficult, and domestic and sheep husbandry are made expensive due to expensive measures and fences to protect their own livestock. It's about unpaid work and tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of dollars in loss to keep clean of sly, grass and shrubs around the wires, and it's expensive current. These fences are largely paid for, but they may not always cover the full cost. Organisations that are not resident in the area are located in some big city and act as environmental organisation on the internet, for example on Facebook, and are given the right to obstinate and govern Swedish hunting and game policy. We think this is serious. The current regulations are, to say the least, strange and rejected by the Swedish Democrats. Does the Minister of the Environment not see any problems at all with what I am describing about the shape of the right of appeal today in terms of qualifications for appeal?
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-551	Mr President, I would like to I am responding strongly to the honourable Member's way of discrediting associations in Sweden and spreading rumours in this House. It is the courts that decide who has the right of appeal against the decisions of the courts. I do not see it happening politically in this House. It should be done in order. It is about interpreting an international convention and EU law. This is what the Swedish courts do in an excellent way. I'm getting a little upset, as you can see. However, I can be pleased that the measures taken by the government to bring order to decisions on hunting in Sweden are obviously supported by all parties in the Riksdag. I am glad the honourable Member can admit that. This new regime, in which we have depoliticised the decisions on hunting and brought them into administrative and judicial law, is expected to reduce the number of appeals over time. We'll have to give this new order some time. An important part of this order is that the final decisions on hunting should come in good time, so that all concerned can plan and know what applies. We also see that in this short time it has already improved. But we're going to give this some year to sit down further. And, as I said, the number of appeals is expected to decrease. It's important. Hunting policy in Sweden must be based on facts and science. There should be order and order when decisions are made, and it should be done in peace and quiet. There should be no political infinity. This is what the government has seen to it with the new order that we have created.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-558	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. As I said, membership only requires names. As we heard here, full names and contact details are missing. Finged names and pseudonyms have been used for membership registration. I don't think that's serious. It creates a breach of confidence when such fake associations are to destroy people's everyday lives, jobs and livelihoods. Nor do they reject civil disobedience in their statutes. The chairman of Wolf Association Sweden has written on his Facebook page: Hunting on hunters, where do you apply for it? Is it particularly serious? I don't think so. This is what has become the last year's circus performance in wolf politics. The right of environmental organisations to appeal is a matter of course. Both animals and nature shall be preserved for future generations. That is our joint responsibility. We all agree on that. Let me get this straight. What is questioned is the government's low requirement for associations to obtain the right to appeal protection and licence hunting decisions under the Aarhus Convention. The requirement was previously 2 000 members. The Ministry of the Environment has gone beyond what the Court of Justice of the European Union has stated regarding the qualification of the right of appeal. Associations are so secret, they're barely even on paper. They have secret boards and secret annual meetings. What do you see from the associations? What do you know about them? The only thing you know is that they are in appeals of protection and licensing hunts and that they are out to disrupt hunting by sabotage. In this respect, it must be concrete from the State's side what are minimum criteria in order to be able to appeal against protection hunts. A few people have taken over – kidnapped – Swedish predatory policy and have a huge impact on the economy, mental health and animal husbandry of companies and individuals. We therefore believe that the government should clearly investigate the consequences of this legislation and come back with proposals on how to improve legislation and application. This must surely be seen by Minister Karolina Skog, even though her political residence, the Green Party, makes her close her eyes.
i-8363e7ca59c2a78a-569	Mr President, I would like to What the honourable Member is doing in this House is condemning the ability of the Administrative Court of Appeal in Sundsvall to read Swedish law and act in accordance with it in its decisions. The Administrative Court of Appeal in Sundsvall has assessed that the associations mentioned here have the right to appeal against decisions covered by the Aarhus Convention. The only thing I need to know about this association is the appeal part, because it is said that this is the task of the Administrative Court of Appeal. It shouldn't be done by politicians. Furthermore, if the honourable Member has information on how members of this association act, which would be criminal and so on, the honourable Member should take this in due order and not pass it on to the House. That is not what we have political debates for. The aim of environmental organisations being able to appeal, for example, decisions on hunting is that they can represent the public and bring knowledge into the decision-making processes and improve decision-making processes. It is a principle that is important and has led to a general improvement in environmental case law in Sweden. As far as hunting decisions are concerned, we have historically had a disorder in Sweden. This government has created a better order and a better continuity by putting these decisions in the same court and creating clear rules for processing times. I hope that this regime over time will also lead to fewer appeals and more stilt around these issues, which will be dealt with as the administrative decisions that they are.
