i-17a2589fa0c102b6-9	Mr President, I would like to I have read today all the budget motions, all shadow budgets, and can say that the problem picture is quite similar. The proposals for solutions differ – a lot. Unfortunately, innovation, visions and long-termness are lacking from many, perhaps because we are in a housing crisis and the focus is on solving it. But the discussion on housing policy would benefit from long-term and innovative thinking in many ways. I took part yesterday in a conversation about homelessness. The Stockholm City Mission publishes a report on this every year. We see that society has changed – new groups end up in homelessness. It is no longer mental illness and addiction problems that are the main cause, but rather low incomes. It may be people who are going through a separation or who are losing their employment and thus their creditworthiness with the banks. Approaching a safe and long-term housing solution will then simply be impossible. This also includes groups that have recently arrived in Sweden. I brought you a quote from Stadsmissionen's report.It is high time to review new housing solutions for a more creative housing market. ..................................................... In spring 2017, the population of Sweden passed 10 million. Urbanisation and migration create new pressures on housing supply, higher than ever before. Despite the increased pressure, voices have recently been raised that too much is being built, that the market is becoming saturated and that prices are going down. We can see that there are housing – for those who are already established on the housing market, i.e. resource-rich groups. More and more people are increasingly away from the housing market. Municipalities are becoming increasingly difficult to cope with housing responsibility. Social housing policy is largely lacking. What has been has been. A large part of me still think it is a pity that there was no housing agreement. But the talks were at the wrong level, and with the participation of the Left Party, coming from another dimension of housing policy, it was difficult. The Alliance developed policies for the government, which produced 22 points that far from solving the problems in either the short or the long term. It is also to be regretted that the ministers do not think their policies are worthy of debate and that they do not participate in today's budget debate. The only thing I hope for after the election is that we can take a turn and get a new hold of ourselves. It takes time to build a house from scratch; it also takes time to renovate Swedish housing policy. Sweden has come a long way in modernisation, but much remains to be done. The Christian Democrats see a need for a reform of Swedish housing policy – a reformarb ete that concerns the very foundations: the rules of the game, the organisation and the structure. The state must take greater responsibility for housing policy. It's not just a municipal matter. There is also a need for a shift in tax policy. The Christian Democratic housing policy is based on five foundations. The first is a society that stays together. One of man's basic needs is to have a place to call your home. We need housing for all, regardless of age and social and economic conditions. Especially for children and young people, a good living environment is of the utmost importance. With the high thresholds to the housing market, a large proportion of people remain in housing that for them is too narrow or too far away from the labour market. Others, to a large extent new arrivals, find themselves in temporary housing with little prospect of moving. The second cornerstone is empowerment over housing. The detailed planning and the rules that govern the conditions for Swedish housing is extensive. Where the state does not dictate details, municipalities come with charges for how the accommodation should be designed both indoors and outdoors. Good intentions are the starting point for each rule, but together and together they constitute a wet blanket that is passed on innovations in the construction industry and residential production as well as the freedom of individuals to shape their dream home. The third foundation is a functional housing market. The starting point is the quest to create a market with sound rules of play and long-term predictable conditions for housing construction. The situation in the current housing market cannot be said to be equivalent to this. The rental model has for many years contributed to creating a distorted rental market with mile-long housing queues and illegal trade in housing contracts. Housing construction conditions have been disrupted by subsidies – policies take a key role in paralysing market participants while waiting for grants to optimise construction costs. The investment aid introduced by the government must be phased out. The fourth foundation is personal ownership. Those who own their home generally feel a greater responsibility for their accommodation and also experience greater participation. Regular studies show that most people prefer to own their home. The fifth foundation is the sustainable home. The Christian Democrats' starting point in this context is the idea of stewardship. What we are building today and tomorrow will stand for 50 to 100 years to come. This includes both environmental aspects and the importance of architecture and urban planning, which creates lasting values and is sustainable in the full sense of the term. The Christian Democrats present a budget with conditions for change. We already proposed several years ago a removal tax which removes the cap on deferred capital gains if you buy a new dwelling. In this way, the profits on sales are not forced up to taxation when buying a new dwelling, but both the capital gains tax and the deferred interest are paid when the person no longer makes a deferral. We are also proposing a reduction in the interest rate reduction. We are seeking a block-wide agreement on a slow downscaling, provided that the government's increased income goes straight back to households and provided that reforms are carried out at the same time so that more households with stable incomes can establish themselves in the market for owned dwellings. Aid for capital investment should be investigated and introduced for households outside the ownership of a dwelling. The example can be a start-up loan according to the Norwegian model, where the government can assist with part of the capital investment provided that the household meets the bank's requirements for a bottom loan. Thus, a strict credit assessment is required and the loan is to be repaid with interest so that the aid does not contribute to risk building or stimulate unsound borrowing. We believe that more building permit exemptions should be considered. The list of exempted measures should be extended. Measures which do not restrict the view of the neighbour or the equivalent and do not pose a serious risk of moisture or other damage to the house should be exempted from building permits. We want to introduce housing savings for young people. There are several models for what it could look like, but the Norwegian has often been a role model. One disadvantage of the savings accounts that have existed in Sweden is that the money is deposited in a regular interest account. With current and future low interest rates, the return on money will be low, and it will not grow at the rate that one might wish for. The Christian Democrats therefore want to investigate an alternative model for housing savings that works within the system for ISK, an investment savings account. The Christian Democrats therefore want to develop this model, unlike the government. This allows the deposits to be made deductible, preferably in funds. In this way, the long-term return on money can far exceed that of a regular savings account. We want to review the protection of the beach so that it becomes more appropriate. We see a value in reviewing national interests. If we are to build communities, housing planning must be a priority. We also need to review and open up new forms of housing such as rentals, owner-occupied apartments and more collective solutions. Sweden's population is ageing, and we will see an increase in the proportion of older people in the population in the coming years. This means that the need to adapt and make housing available will increase significantly. A retirement home guarantee without retirement homes is not worth anything. In order for us to meet the promise of a retirement home guarantee, more and different types of retirement homes are needed. Incentives for municipalities to build retirement homes must therefore remain and be increased in order to raise the ambition of municipalities. We therefore allocate SEK 550 million more than the government during 2018 – 2020 to build more homes for the elderly. No one should be forced out of his home, but no one should be forced to stay at home either. It must be the needs and desires of the elderly that are at the heart of the issue. Only then do we live up to a real housing guarantee. Finally, I would like to say something about consumer policy. We must acknowledge the new technologies and the new ways of doing things, but this must be done with a focus on consumer safety. Consumers must have the power and the ability to make active choices. This should be the focus of legislation. However, this should not be over-regulated either at national or EU level. I request the approval of reservation 4.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-34	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by asking for the approval of reservation 4, for time to come, but of course we support all our reservations. Sweden must have more housing. It's never been more important. Housing policy and the importance of more housing are one of Sweden's most important societal challenges. Especially for municipalities, their development and their opportunities. We are talking about the migration challenge, population growth in big cities, population decline in rural areas, studies, the labour market, growth and fiscal power – the list can be long. According to Boverket's forecast, 600,000 new homes are needed by 2025. To meet this need, major reforms of construction and housing policies are needed. However, forecasts for 2018 show a declining building act. That is the last thing Sweden needs now. Of course, growth and the functioning of the labour market are important, but that may not be the most important thing for the individual. What are we seeing right now? Well, we see young adults living at home with their parents and unable to leave home. We see older people who feel that they cannot sell their houses and move to a smaller and more suitable home because of lock-in effects. We see people who are divorced and unable to move apart, and we see others who cannot move to where there are new jobs. We also hear about companies that are thinking about and threatening to move their establishment from Sweden because their employees do not find any housing. On all of this, the challenge of migration is also being addressed. Even without it we would have had a housing crisis; with the double housing crisis. The challenges of the housing market are spilling over into, and hampering, all policy areas. There is no quick fix, but it is about basic and long-term healthy conditions and more liberal rules for increased housing construction across the board. We Moderates, together with our alliance colleagues here, have put forward proposals ranging from radical simplifications across the board to a review of Lantmäteriet, whose activity is about safeguarding and guaranteeing property rights – the cornerstone of democracy. There is not a single part of the excessive Swedish regulations that we cannot envisage reducing or simplifying. The Alliance government implemented extensive regulatory simplifications, which together with a firm need is one of the reasons why we now have the highest housing building in several decades. At the same time, it is important that we continue the reform and simplification journey – not just on the margins, but so that we dare to change the basics, if we are to be able to deal with current and future housing challenges. In order to solve the housing crisis, all parties need to dare lift all the stones that Caroline Szyber was on just now. We Moderates want broad and block-crossing long-term agreements where we start to deal with Sweden's huge housing challenge in depth. In addition to continuing fundamental simplifications, we need, above all, to review housing taxes and rental regulation, stimulate mobility and migration chains and make better use of the existing stock. Above all, we need a policy that provides opportunities for everyone, especially for young people and those with lower incomes, to own their housing. Ownership is the foundation of the housing market and must also be that of housing policy. A policy for everyone's ability to buy and own their housing is also in itself a measure of increased housing construction. Mr President, I would like to The government has not delivered solutions but remains with all its sacred cows. Unlike the housing policy talks the government invited to 2015, the new housing policy talks we open up should be about doing as much as possible to increase construction, not about having to do as little as possible. Unfortunately, we see a tired and passive government with few ideas of its own and a very slow handling of the few ideas it has. It's troubling. We see a government that invests in subsidies, which is not in demand. The industry just saws them, and doesn't want them. Personally, I am most concerned that subsidies reduce the innovation and innovation that we have yet to see in the housing sector. Above all, the billions of governments are wasting construction subsidies on buying themselves free from responsibility and their duty to act against the housing crisis. "My job as Minister of Housing is to place demands on municipalities to build," said Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson in SVT's Agenda a few weeks ago. No, his job as Minister of Housing is to facilitate the construction of municipalities. The housing crisis should be handled, not commented on, especially if one is ultimately responsible for building more in Sweden. So what he says is that it is others who should do what is his main task as Minister of Housing. Sweden's municipalities and county councils, the government's own party friends and coalition collegues, as well as countless individual municipalities, state that shortcomings in the laws and regulations for housing construction constitute the greatest obstacle to their ability to satisfy the housing supply. Despite the worst housing crisis in more than half a century, no government in modern times has made so few proposals to increase housing construction. It is both unacceptable and unsustainable. The newly resigned Home Secretary has delivered 75 bills. Two environmental-partisan housing ministers in the housing crisis Sweden have delivered seven, nicely counted. I say nicely, for most of them stem from the alliance period and were formulated for the greater part of the Alliance. The government has had to be dragged to everything, from more flexible noise regulations to the concessions in housing policy imposed by the migration agreement. The few proposals put forward by the government concern the acceptance, a number of years too late, of the measures proposed by the Alliance several years ago. This is not an active housing policy. The government could get through any simplification in Parliament tomorrow, if only someone had been proposed. The marginal measures now listed have been found by all stakeholders to be too little and too late. This can't be done. Mr President, I would like to It is now high time that the government began to assume its responsibilities – it does not continue to avoid them.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-53	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing the spending framework or economic conditions in relation to housing policy and Category 18. We see that there is a large housing shortage in Sweden. It is something that affects several policy areas. In particular, it affects the labour market. We see that many metropolitan regions with strong growth have problems recruiting staff because of the housing shortage. It is important that we, as politicians, create good conditions for those metropolitan regions and major cities that have growth in the labour market to have access to labour force. The Swedish Democrats have proposed a regional housing planning that may primarily help smaller municipalities in the country, which are located within commuting distance to the labour market of the major metropolitan regions, to obtain more housing. Here there is a strong opportunity to actually get more housing – it's easier than getting them out in the metropolitan regions. It is in these areas that job growth exists. It is also there that the bets can have the greatest impact. It is important that we review the financing of the increased housing construction both for private individuals and for construction companies. It is going in the wrong direction to make it more difficult for individuals to take out a mortgage. Since the need is so great and prices are increasing so strongly, it is important that everyone has the opportunity to finance their housing. The Swedish Democrats are very critical of introducing new amortisation requirements. We see that it will have a negative impact on people's ability to get housing and that it will affect housing needs in the labour market. Instead, we want to see a reduction in interest rates. It's supposed to be a slow drop over time. And it's supposed to be a review when we've gone down to a 25 percent interest rate reduction. At the same time, we want to compensate households by reducing taxes. In this way, they can finance their accommodations, both purchased dwellings and rented dwellings. We want to review more opportunities for individuals to fund their housing. There may be different financial solutions: from start-up loans to rural loans and housing savings, especially for young people. There is an opportunity to create the forward-looking housing market that has been lacking for a long time. It is something that has put us in the situation we are in today. We need to sit down and discuss how we can create better conditions for more people to fund their housing. However, it is not only the funding opportunities for private individuals that are important in this context. It is also important to increase productivity development for construction companies. It is a matter of ensuring that the cost of housing construction is reduced and, by extension, also the rents of these dwellings. I am convinced that there is much to be done in this area and that we, from a political point of view, can ensure, together with the construction companies and other players, that we create the conditions for actually increasing productivity and thus reducing costs. In addition, open housing policy talks are needed to bring about a number of important political changes. I am very tired of listening to people who stand in this speaker's chair and talk about the need for political talks across the block border but who are not prepared to talk to the Swedish Democrats on this issue. As long as you stand here and talk about wanting to implement a variety of political proposals but at the same time do not take that opportunity, it is just a political game in the context. We're open to conversation every day. Just get in touch with the Swedish Democrats. In this way, we can create a good precondition for a majority in Parliament. This applies to both the red-green parties and the Alliance, of course. You can look at the statistics on the number of completed dwellings in 2016. Turns out it's 42 000 homes. At the same time, we had a population increase of 144 000 people. That equation doesn't add up. If we are to achieve a balance in the housing market and catch up, Mr President, it needs to be built to a greater extent than is being done today. Population growth is clearly shown in the statistics. Approximately 72,000 dwellings will be started in 2017. This is a step in the right direction, but as long as the population increase is strong, we will not have a balance in the housing market. There are several vulnerable areas in Sweden. The police have identified 61 areas, in particular, that need political action to provide security for those who live there. It is also a question of preventing more areas from being exposed according to police reports. There is a need for a national action plan for municipalities, so that they can act to prevent more areas from being addressed in police reporting. But it is also about the areas that are currently highlighted. We in Sweden Democrats have contributed SEK 250 million in our budget to be able to make special efforts in these areas, so that the police can in a more secure way be there naturally in everyday life but also make efforts when needed. If you read the police reports you can see that just how these residential areas are designed is a crucial reason why the police today cannot operate and create security there. The proposals made by the government, such as temporary building permits, show that we are moving in the opposite direction. We move from reducing the number of vulnerable areas to increasing them. This means that we will have more exclusion areas with simple housing where those in charge of housing do not have an interest in maintaining good order because it is a matter of temporary building permits. However, I am pleased that the Government has now announced that the EBO legislation will be reviewed. But the suggestion that the government is making concerns me. People talk about there being decent housing for those who arrange their own accommodation, who today have been granted a residence permit and are in construction housing. How is it ensured that it does not mean that at a later stage these people still end up in a form of overcrowding, when they have got their first residence and then move on? The government really needs to review the proposal that will be put on the table. We have seen a series of displacement effects of the Instructions Act, which entered into force on 1 March 2016. It is an important area to work with in order not to create polarisation in society when we see an increased conflict between groups because of the injustice that the government presents in its proposals. In order to have increased construction and reduced costs, we need to increase competition in the construction market. We need to create better conditions for more construction companies to participate and compete in municipal procurements and to generally participate in the housing market by increasing the opportunity for more people to take part in the construction credits. We also need to strengthen the requirement to build the land that exists and is sold around the country. Together with regional housing planning and a housing and infrastructure preparation, we can create good conditions for getting planning and enabling more housing to be built in Sweden. In addition, the Swedish Democrats in the budget propose that SEK 400 million be spent on incentive grants for the construction of student housing. We also propose an investment grant for elderly housing of SEK 450 million annually. All this is about creating better conditions for more people to live in Sweden. It is funny, I think, that we see that the government is making a proposal in relation to radonsa ning. It is a grant of SEK 34 million annually. This is something we interpelled about last spring. We received a response to our interpellation in the autumn, and now we can see that there is a radon contribution in the government budget. This is something that the Swedish Democrats are following up on. The Swedish Democrats propose cultural planning, which means that we will try to build beautifully and with style to counteract the development of millions of programme areas that we have seen during previous construction booms in Sweden. It is important how we design our residential areas and the harmony that we build into these areas. It is about making sure to build in such a way that we actually enjoy our areas. This is an important issue for the Swedish Democrats in future housing policy. With those words, Mr President, I would like to take the opportunity for time to call for the approval of reservations 1 and 8.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-72	Mr President, I would like to I support the joint reservations of the four alliance parties: reservation 11, which concerns the review of Lantmäteriet, and reservation 4, which concerns a new consumer policy objective. Otherwise, the Center Party believes that the decision that was taken earlier on the financial perspectives leads wrong and will mean a further split of Sweden – between city and country, between those on the housing market and those who are outside and are now trying to get in. The Centre Party is therefore not taking part in the decision on the financial framework this afternoon. As Caroline Szyber and Mats Green have mentioned, there is a need for a number of broad agreements in the Swedish Parliament on taxes, regulatory simplifications and other things that lead to an increase in housing construction, Mr President. A new leadership for Sweden is needed, a leadership that sees the problems in the housing market and tries to find solutions. The red-green government is happy to beat its chest, but with as many outside the housing market as it is today, one can only speak of failure. The construction we are seeing today is in fact the result of a planning activity that started long before we changed government. Most of the housing currently subsidised was already decided when Stefan Attefall submitted the entry card to the Ministry of Enterprise. I myself as a municipal politician until 2010 have prepared plans or detailed plans for all of the 579 new homes that have been announced and that have qualified my own municipality Kungsbacka for a construction bonus of around SEK 13 million for 2017. I dare to express my warm thanks here to the President of the alliance-led municipal management in Kungsbacka for the money we have received because, like most other growth municipalities, we have already had the necessary governance documents in place to receive the fair billions. At the same time, I regret that the social democraticly governed Hylte municipality with 11 000 inhabitants as the only Halland municipality has not received anything. The neighbouring municipality of Halmstad, with 100,000 inhabitants, paid out 24 million. It is usually said by the government that this would be a way of getting municipalities that had not previously been willing to build homes to suddenly want to do so. I don't believe that. I would rather say that in isolated cases it is the laziness that is now being rewarded, while those who already supply and have housing supply that an ongoing municipal activity now receives more. In short, the red-green support policy has failed. It misses its goal and benefits already strong municipalities that are growing. It tightens the profits of construction companies. At the same time, there are municipalities that want to but cannot build without support. It is thanks to the economic situation, low interest rates and high demand that more is being built now than in a long time. But no, it's not enough. There are too few homes being built, and what is being built is largely adapted to those who can afford to pay. Mr President, I would like to This may involve not being able to accept a job or apply for an education. It can be about not being able to move to something of your own when the separation is a fact. It is also the case that increasing age can change the need. The interest in the garden and the garage lobby may have cooled down, and you want to prepare for a new phase in life where the spaces need not be as large. But since it is difficult to move around and eventually needs care a few times a day, the dwelling needs to be more spacious and accessible than before. The lack of housing is a major problem. But the biggest thing, I would say, is that so few people have the opportunity to change homes and that the homes we already have are used inefficiently. The second major problem – which is the result – is that many still stand outside or cannot choose the accommodation that suits them. If this development is allowed to continue, Mr President, extraordinary measures will be needed to provide shelter for those who – if they even have a home – live crowded or with unsafe black secondary contracts. The Center Party has long pointed to the high migration taxes as a problem. Another problem is that outside the larger cities you still get quite little money for the house you sell, while the apartment you would like to move to – if it is even built – becomes very much more expensive to live in. Again, if we take little Hylte as an example, you get a fairly new and good villa for 700 000 – 800 000 kronor. I'm sure it would have cost it ten times in this big city. At the same time, household indebtedness increases so much that Finansinspektionen continues to make proposals that further make it difficult for many to access a home to buy and own. Both, we in the Center Party believe, show the split that we have caused by the government's unwillingness or inability to make real reforms in the housing market – reforms that boost new investment and curb price developments, reforms that increase mobility and simplify construction companies, reforms that allow more housing to be built and renovated cost-effectively and at the same time climate-smart and energy-efficient, reforms that lower thresholds and open doors to the housing market, and reforms that open up for more free renting and more and mixed leases. Mr President, I would like to We'd rather forget about the housing calls. Since the government felt it was more important to have the support of the Left Party than to make block-crossing and long-term sustainable agreements, it did not contribute anything, to link to the fairy tale of Master tailors. Well, maybe it was a thumbnote – a 22-point program where extensive subsidies were the big thing. There is nothing there about simpler and faster planning processes, a proper review of the appeal mechanism or a simplified beach protection that allows municipalities to decide more for themselves. Instead, we get new cities – an initiative that could have meant something if it had been paired with a real desire to expand the infrastructure that could make that idea possible. But it is becoming increasingly clear that the issue of high-speed trains has reached a deadlock. When one of the supposed new cities, Landvetter, will not be reached by any railway, because the government does not intend to prioritise new railways to Borås in the national plan, one wonders what happens with the other states. The Center Party is investing 400 million more on the railways in our budget and is proposing, in addition to that, a model of loan financing for high-speed railways. Against that, Mr President, the red-green derailment of railway maintenance is to be set. Is it meant to get to these new cities with the help of a subsidised e-bike that you get for Christmas? Nor do we see anything that will in any way help to strengthen the interest in building rental apartments, but rather new restrictions on owning and managing them. The restrictions come in the form of taxes, over-implementing EU directives and tenants' veto on renovations. In our housing movement, the Center Party has put forward 28 proposals. To this should be added 7 proposals that promote sustainability and climate benefit; it is about building serially produced houses in wood and energy efficiency in such a way that already made investments in renewable district heating and locally produced electricity will be promoted. Mr President, I would like to Now that we have agreed with the government that a national energy-efficient building centre should be set up, it is extremely regrettable that the Ministry of Industry is screwing it all up in a procurement in which the main players in this area have not been able to participate. The Passive House Centre in Västra Götaland will be closed down, even though it was where the Minister of Housing chose to travel to promise money for advice. Mr President, I would like to A few weeks ago, I was given the opportunity to participate in a debate on attacks against blue-light personnel. However, instead of identifying certain groups and places in such a debate, we must acknowledge that planning has not always taken sufficient account of the fact that environments should feel safe for those living and staying there. The Center Party therefore spends 70 million more than the government on special support for measures that are safe and secure. It can be about removing shrubbery and masking street corners, making it impossible to go from footbridges to emergency services, ambulances and police officers, to light up surfaces and create meeting places for people, to change structures by mixing forms of concessions and to remove barrier effects that arise when roads are drawn and shielded by residential areas from each other. There are many good ways to break the exclusion and make more people feel safe and secure in their outdoor environment. The bad way is not to tighten laws to be able to intervene when bus drivers or rescue services are attacked and not to assign the police enough powers and resources. Dwellings should also be safe to live in. The Radon grant is now being restored, and it will once again be possible to apply for money to be able to map, measure and clean off radiation. Those exposed to high levels of radon are more likely to suffer from lung cancer than smokers. The radiation can come from the bedrock of the ground house built on and from building materials in older houses. The Center Party finds it unfortunate that the radon grant was removed. We welcome the fact that it is now being reintroduced. Mr President, I would like to Many agree that the lack of skills is the next major building barrier. There is a lot of labour market and education policy in this. It is also about how well we take care of and develop the skills of the new arrivals. There are no construction workers, supervisors, engineers and project managers. Complaints about long plan processes and overzealous building permits officers can often be blamed for lack of experience and high workload. Lantmäteriet is one such authority where there would have to be more employees. The problem is that the agency is not able to keep the staff available and to get to go there. Therefore, the solution is not more money for the agency but a total review, where more of Lantmäteriet's tasks become things that can be handled within the construction projects. Many proceedings, such as calculating percentages in road accidents, should be made with a simple notification to the authority. Finally, let me say the following. The government finally changed the noise guidelines. It's an example of slowness. Another example is that despite the fact that the question of national interests has been investigated, the government refrains from making proposals that do not prevent housing construction from being hindered by uncertainties as to how national interests should be interpreted. There are few things now, apart from financial charges and regulations, that are more perceived as a building brake than that example. The government should present proposals on the size, quantity and interpretation of national interests that we can consider here. The government should also make proposals to better coordinate the planning of housing, workplaces and infrastructure between regions and municipalities. Mr President, I would like to There is much that the government parties should be able to achieve as they enter the final round of their ownership of power.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-96	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. The housing shortage is still one of the most important issues for many people today. Where to move after the contract has expired? How can I afford next month's rent? How am I supposed to leave home? What are we gonna do when we're gonna get divorced? For many years too few homes have been built in Sweden. This is because there has hardly been a proper housing policy, and there has been no political will to change it. A number of companies have built some homes every year that they make money on, and so it has been good with it. The Left Party believes that this needs to be changed. Parliament must step forward politically and ensure that the number of homes needed by the quality that we think is worthy of a welfare country like Sweden is built. Housing is and should be a part of the welfare of Sweden. It should work so that young adults between the ages of 19 and 20 can easily move to their own home. It can't be the parents' business to solve. It can't reasonably work for a single mother of five to find an apartment for all her kids. Sweden is not the United States, where parents should save money for everything their own children need in life – universities, moving away from home, possibly coping with a disease. In Sweden we have a common welfare where we help each other with this. Then it will be cheaper and less stressful for all of us. The Left Party wants to see the need for housing more closely monitored and planned, as is happening in many other welfare areas. This can be about the need for health care, the construction of schools and other things. After the '90s, it seemed that the issue had been resolved. Sweden was completed. The housing shortage was gone forever. It turned out to be wrong. That is why we think it is right that the state budget should include investment in increased housing construction. Political action is needed in order for more housing to actually be built. That may seem obvious, and I wish we would be more in agreement with that in this House today. There is a real need for rental apartments for reasonable rents. What would the alternative be? J o not to do anything at all – that we should do what the bourgeois parties in this House are proposing, namely not to invest a single crown in the construction of more rental apartments with reasonable rents. By then there would have been 10 000 such rentals fewer today. Young people in Skövde and Uppsala, young girls and boys in Tyresö had not received a tenancy at reasonable rents. Instead, you want young people to be forced to burden their poor parents or only those with great inheritance to survive. It should all be about which parents you have chosen and that they will then help to the best of their ability. The Left Party wants us to develop a housing policy that gives freedom both to the children and to the parents. The next step is to introduce government loans for new production of rental rights. This reduces the risk of building new rental apartments. It could triple the construction. The public benefit can then easily start new production projects. Instead of building expensive rental apartments, government loans will lead to changes in housing construction. We have to get used to the fact that more rental apartments are being built with a little lower rent per dwelling. We need to get away from the expensive new production rents, the so-called presumption rents, and have regular rents even on new production. Market-driven housing policy has come to an end. We now see how many homes are built on speculation. It in turn drives up prices for ordinary families who just want a place to live. Many have bought both one and two apartments because they have heard that that's how you make money nowadays. The so-called housing career has been built on the eternal rise in house prices, and it has proved unsustainable. It has made housing something to be traded with, not something to live in and for the children something safe to grow up in. This has made it impossible in some cases for ordinary employees to find a suitable place to live in a relaxed and relaxed way. At the same time, I believe that this terrifies those who are currently in debt over their ears to enter the housing market. They are so worried that house prices will fall that some of them are fighting for more housing not to be built in the area. I believe that this divides people and creates insecurity and uncertainty for the future. At the same time, these people are expected to increase their loans further as children grow up, as far too few feel confident that there will be easy access to housing for young people as they grow up. Everyone realises that this situation is unsustainable, that prices are unsustainable, that price developments in Sweden are unsustainable for people and for the economy, that housing construction must be well-managed and planned in advance and researched, and that it must be built with quality and with careful and democratic urban construction as important principles, not primarily speculative or entirely cyclical. If we grow up, we need to build more. It's as simple as that. For this, the Left Party wants to see a shared responsibility. The dwelling can never primarily be about something we should earn money from, but it should be something to live in. The Left Party therefore wants to begin a transition to housing that makes every young person have a dwelling waiting for him or her when he or she turns 20 or 21. We want to see housing financing and risk-taking more on the common and common good that will be greater in order to build to lower rents and put pressure on the local, private market. We also want to create a national construction company to build good housing with good working conditions for more than just those who can afford to spend a lot of money. The new habitats that are being built up today will last for many centuries to come. It is therefore of particular value that two new funds are now being put in place, on the one hand, to tackle radon in housing and, on the other hand, to promote innovative and sustainable construction. High architectural quality and public spaces we can all share are important for our well-being. We are now investing in research into social housing policy. This will lead to a larger research on housing construction and the habitats around us, which means so much to us in everyday life. We also focus on digitalisation of the urban development process, which will also improve the quality of the living environments being built today. This is how we create a society for the future. Then it is a pity that the bourgeois parties want to remove all efforts for the construction of the future and for the construction of rental apartments with reasonable rents. The government and the Left Party spend five times more on this than the bourgeois government did during its period – and of course much more than the bourgeois parties do in their budget movements. We make the biggest investment in 20 years, but more is needed. In the bourgeois budgetary movements it is the same as always. When health care needs more money, schools need to get better and more rentals with reasonable rents are needed, the bourgeois want 30 billion in tax cuts. Only the sick and the unemployed save the Moderates 4 billion to pay tax cuts to their core voters. The Center Party is cutting wages. They are again introducing the expensive and inefficient reduction in employers' contributions for young people, which only gives money to large companies. To get a sense of what this means, I can tell you that the Center Party's tax cuts could pay for tens of thousands of nurses. The Centre Party saves 12 billion on labour market policy and assistance to work, which is particularly striking at new arrivals. The Center Party saves over 8 billion on sick and disabled people and reduces the housing allowance for the same group. The tax cuts of liberals go next n only to the absolutely richest. They basically meet the boys who sit on Stureplan with whole pipes on Friday nights. Liberals are making the greatest effort on this group. The tax is reduced by 22 billion for those with the absolute highest income. Those with lower income receive zero crowns, and those with sick pay receive increased tax and reduced housing allowance. The Swedish Democrats' budget bill gives the richest tenth 13 times more than those with the lowest income. Mr President, I would like to The bourgeois have nothing new to come with. They have no proposals for the future, no visions and no thoughts about what the future of our country is. The signal from the bourgeois is the usual one: The single mother who kneaks food bags from preschool and home every day will pay tax cuts for the Danderyd millionaires. For those school students who do not get enough help with their homework, they draw in teacher hours because there are a few millionaires in Stockholm municipalities who need tax cuts. For the tenant who counts the money every month to get together for food and clothing, they want to introduce market rent so that the landlord becomes even richer when the rent is raised by 50 – 60 percent. Mr President, I would like to The alternatives in Swedish politics are clear. We have a right that wants to continue to cut down on welfare and lower taxes for the high-paid. The bill they want to send to the rest of us, who work and toil every day, and make our welfare worse and worse. That's a bad idea. I want to narrow the gaps. I do not want richer rich; I want richer poor. I want us to engage in financial equalisation in the coming years. Next year there will be elections, and then voters will decide the future of Sweden.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-123	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Caroline Szyber that it is a bit special to debate housing policy with the Left Party, because it feels like debating with someone in a parallel universe. Sometimes one might think that the Left Party is an opposition party, although on the contrary they are part of the government base. Mr President, I would like to Distinguishing the Left's housing policy, to the extent that there is one, and also for Nooshi Dadgostar's speech here is not everything you are active and positive for, but everything you are negative to and against. As before, I have enjoyed going through the Left Party's housing policy movements during both the current and previous parliamentary years. There is not a single measure aimed at obtaining more housing. The only thing you are in favour of is the construction subsidies that you want to implement and have also been involved in. So the Left is fighting with beaks and claws to put tax money in private companies – companies that, moreover, do not have problems with their profit margins. I want Nooshi Dadgostar to develop this. In view of the housing challenge we are facing: in what way does the Left Party want to build it away? You can't have a housing policy that's just about stopping things. Sometimes you have to be for something, too. Can't you, Nooshi Dadgostar, list your ten most important proposals to get more housing in Sweden? I promise you won't get that many together, but give it a shot.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-128	Mr President, I would like to Both me and Mats Green are to some extent in favour of subsidies. Mats Green wants to subsidise cleaning for rich families. Mats Green wants to subsidise a ROT deduction that goes mainly to those who earn the most. Mats Green is also for today's interest rebate, which is actually a subsidy to the bank. Politics is partly based on investing and investing. We believe that rents also need to be subsidised. But that's not enough. Today's investment aid has given thousands of new rentals, which we are pleased about. But we want to change the housing financing system and introduce government loans so that many more rental apartments can be built. I mentioned that it will lead to the construction of three times as many rents as you do not have to have your own capital input. Return requirements are significantly reduced if there is a common risk-taking. Now a government investigation is looking at this. If we get the construction up in this way, it means quite a lot. We want to simplify the rules for the common good. This is currently the subject of a debate on the commercial nature of new production projects and whether they can be carried out in different ways. We believe that some changes need to be made to today's public good legislation – the legislation that you submitted during the last parliamentary term. This is, of course, the great political tool that municipalities have to build up the housing shortage. There needs to be land to build. Therefore, we want to help municipalities to have an active land policy so that they can buy in land and expand areas with more housing.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-133	Mr President, I would like to If I'm going to be kind and show good will, as I always do, Nooshi Dadgostar made maybe four suggestions that she believes will lead to more housing. I may not think so, but there were still four proposals. The most important of these proposals was to put billions of tax money into private construction companies to build something they have already built. In addition, it benefits those who already exist on the housing market, since one of these apartments is dependent on standing in the left-wing partisan housing queue. So it benefits those who already have. Tell him I'd return to my upbringing area, the outside area of Öxnehaga in Huskvarna. If I got there and told them I'd fix their housing situation by giving billions to private construction companies, it wouldn't take off. Mr President, I would like to One must dare to give in to the basic problem, and the basic problem in Sweden is that we need more housing. We cannot then have a policy which is 90% to make it more difficult to build housing, more difficult to rent housing and, above all, more difficult to rent a dwelling. That is totally unacceptable. We must also remember that the Left Party is part of the government's government base. What questions has the Left Party pushed actively and pushed the government in front of it to get more housing? The answer is: not in any single question. In fact, a veto has been vetoed on a number of measures. This was tried under the alliance government, and this is what this government is trying to do. Again, are these – nicely counted – four proposals all that the Left Party has to make? Then we're in trouble.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-139	Mr President, I would like to To change the entire financial system for housing construction in Sweden I do not think comes into the framework that Mats Green puts – that it is a small part of a large palette or similar. Your big problem, Mats Green, is reality. When you were in charge, housing construction never over 30,000 homes a year, not once. Today, Sweden is building over 76 000 homes. Mats Green's big problem is reality. Your policy didn't work, and then you have to reconsider. I think it's pretty mean to your own alliance friends to be so critical of the tools we use today. The Christian Democrats also want investment aid. And look at the Center Party! They also propose loans for infrastructure investments. This is nothing beyond the friends you have. We need to be able to agree that we need to change something, because it does not work. We do not build housing for those who need it and who have regular wallets. Then the state, together with industry, needs to go in and think about whether we can change the funding structures we have today in order to produce a much larger supply. It is not enough, then, for the small details that Mats Green can burp up in many long documents. Attefallshusen gave nothing. The removal of a building permit on a single measure in a building does not lead to tens of thousands more homes, but requires something larger. The Moderates have no information there, because they think the market should handle this. But it doesn't, so we have to help each other together. Investment aid has only provided 10,000 homes this year. It's better than nothing, which is what Mats Green proposes.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-144	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I think it is unfortunate that we should have to wait to listen to Robert Hannahs's excellent proposal on housing policy. And I'm curious to hear what Johan Löfstrand and Emma Hult have their views on the Left Party support party and their rather hard-hitting socialist stake in the bottomless dy that housing policy has become. The Center Party provides money for people who are far from the labour market to have a chance to get into it and thus have the opportunity to get a place to live and move away from home. This criticises Nooshi Dadgostar, but yet she gives 1.7 billion to already profitable construction companies in the form of building subsidies. Another thing strikes me when Nooshi mentions Danderyd. Then I will think again of my own municipality of residence, bourgeois-led Kungsbacka, which has well-managed finances, low municipal taxes, order and planning, and an ongoing housing planning that receives 13 million in building bonuses. It's a total waste of money. At the same time, municipalities with less well-managed finances for various reasons – it may be that the majority government looks like it does, but it may also be because you have very low population growth – nothing. When Nooshi Dadgostar talks about freedom, I wonder what kind of freedom she means. She wants to regulate and subsidise all the freedom that exists in housing policy. I am a little curious about where Nooshi Dadgostar's limit is when it comes to how much money can be used to subsidise things that the Left Party believes there is a shortage in society.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-148	Mr President, I would like to It is quite right that the Left Party wants to invest in what we lack in society. We think it's important. The housing shortage is a huge problem, and what is being built today is not for ordinary wallets. I do not hear a single bourgeois politician in this House today who has a proposal on how to build more rental apartments for reasonable rents. There are no proposals, either from Mats Green or Ola Johansson. What is your proposal for how we can reduce the rents on the new production we are building today? What's your suggestion? We need to have some ideas on this. That is the big issue that we are debating today. Investment aid has worked, but I think it is not enough. 10,000 rental apartments with reasonable rents are good, but it does not reach all the way. We think we should go further. Like you, we believe that government loans should be made for example for new production in infrastructure, which is housing construction in this case. That's where we agree. We need to think about new ideas in different ways. We can't just scream about regulations, socialism and everything that Ola Johansson says but doesn't matter. I don't follow what that means. For me, it is important that new rentals are available now that people can demand. Investment aid is one way, but we have many other proposals. We want to make better use of the public good, we want to help municipalities with land policy in a much more progressive and forward-looking way and we want different support schemes so that new production projects can be started more often and more quickly, when there is not a great need for equity and return on equity.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-153	Mr President, I would like to Nooshi Dadgostar has been appointed government investigator to produce more buildable land, something that is urgent. It should not be unfamiliar to Nooshi Dadgostar what is said in the description of the construction companies that will build the land. It should not be unfamiliar to Nooshi Dadgostar what the utility housing companies tell her about the conditions for obtaining more rental housing. Nor should it be unfamiliar to Nooshi Dadgostar that a newly produced dwelling – a tenancy – as a tenancy form is always more expensive than an already built dwelling. It should therefore not be unfamiliar to Nooshi Dadgostar that the cheap rental apartments that a young person, a newly separated person, a person who is entering the labour market or a person who is newly arrived and trying to start a life here in Sweden have access to is a dwelling that already exists – a home that is made available through increased mobility and by people deciding that it is time to own their home. Ownership is something that does not exist in the world of the Left Party. If, through political decisions, the Left Party could remove ownership as a form of residence, I do not think it would be strange for Nooshi Dadgostar to propose such a thing. I think the dream for the Left Party is that we have 100% subsidised rentals. I am still curious as to where Nooshi Dadgostar believes the limit is set for how much tax money can be thrown into the housing market in order to produce the type of housing Nooshi imagines people want.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-160	Mr President, I would like to The bourgeois parties, including Ola Johansson, paint straw men, and they fight them. And then there are windmills, and then they fight them. That's how they do it, and they write their own pamphlets. We need to talk to real people in real life. People have nowhere to live, Ola Johansson. It's really hard to find a place to live. I have a sister who had to leave Stockholm. She was supposed to study here, but she had to drop out and move to Malmö. What are you offering her? What do you have to say to her? Nothing. You're waving your pamphlets. It's unserious. I also note that there are still no proposals to rebuild in a way that strikes at least one ordinary employee. I do not demand to build the absolute cheapest homes. I fully agree that it is those who are already built that are the cheapest. But at least we have to build for some kind of average-svensson, right? We need to build for broad groups. Ola Johansson has no answer. I agree that new production is more expensive. That is why we want to enter government loans precisely into new production, to balance up this gap and to ensure that risk taking there is reduced. Then the commons may have started three, four or five more projects. If we spread the cost of starting new construction projects, we can build much more. As a result, one or two apartments can even be left empty in our cities, so that there is mobility in the way Ola Johansson says. The property is subsidised today. We spend about 30 to 40 billion on the property, and only about 6 billion goes to rentals. How can these 6 billion be so provocative for Ola Johansson and not the 40 billion?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-165	Mr President, I would like to Public finances are in order, employment is growing and the economy is booming. But instead of using the boom to build a buffer for worse times, the government chooses to burn the economy, present unfunded premium increases and fertilize construction companies with building subsidies for buildings to be built anyway. What Sweden needs today is the economic policy of the Liberals, where education is rewarded, where subsidies go to families with children and pensioners instead of to construction companies, where it is always profitable to go from subsidies to jobs and where disabled people are not put into an unworthy life by removing their personal assistance. After three years with a red-green government, there is hardly anyone in Sweden who thinks that Sweden is on the right track. Liberals are very pleased that much is being built now. But although much more is being built than in a long time, we are far from achieving the 600 000 homes that need to be built by 2025. Instead, forecasts now show that the housing market will slow down, partly because of the government's new amortisation requirements that will come soon. In addition, the government is far from giving shelter to all asylum seekers who have been granted a residence permit in Sweden. Instead, Swedish municipal politicians are forced to buy housing or take rental apartments from the usual housing queue. When Mehmet Kaplan was fired from his post as Minister of Housing, there were no proposals whatsoever to give shelter to these new arrivals, despite the fact that the Liberals and several other alliance parties had long demanded exemption rules in order to obtain housing and better use of the Finnish Immigration Service's procured accommodation. This whole autumn has gone without the government and Peter Eriksson having delivered a single bill on housing policy, and Peter Eriksson still has no answer to the question where the new arrivals will go. This is the most crucial issue we have in Sweden. We have a lot of new arrivals who are going into the Swedish housing market. Nooshi Dadgostar and others are talking about young people having a place to live. But it doesn't get any easier if you're going to take the homes that the young people are going to live in. The red-greens today will beat their chests and take credit for building a lot, despite the lack of politics. I can guarantee that it is in no way the red-green housing policy that has led to the increase in production that we are seeing in Sweden today. Mehmet Kaplan, Peter Eriksson and the government have so far contributed only four things to Swedish housing policy. Firstly, less simplifications have been made. What is interesting in this context is that the Green Party voted against almost all when the Alliance ruled during the previous parliamentary term. So now it's a good time, but then it didn't. Secondly, it has created, or wants to create, fluffy housing councils and other discussion forums that will not lead to any more housing. Liberals say no to all of these. I will also make it clear that the Liberals are happy to participate in these discussion forums – Boinstitutet and a lot of others that the Tenants' Association and the market themselves have created. We don't need any more. There are enough already today. Thirdly, misdirected subsidies have been introduced for wealthy construction companies. Fourthly, they refuse to touch interest rebates. Instead, it is now intended to punish especially young people and single people to enter the housing market through amortisation requirements that effectively shut them out. It is interesting in this context to listen to what Finansinspektionen said when presenting the new amortisation requirement. In the absence of other proposals, this proposal is presented. If the government had come forward with a proposal on the interest rebates, where everyone is allowed to contribute to a healthy debt in Sweden, Finansinspektionen would not have presented this proposal. It is also interesting that Per Bolund, the Minister for Finance, says that only 15% will be prevented from entering the housing market because of the new proposal. It affects the rich, because those who do not already have a high income do not already receive bank loans to buy a home. It can be seen very clearly that in practice this means that the government's policy is that young people, new graduates, new arrivals and single people are the only ones who should not be allowed to enter the housing market because people around Sweden have already taken on very large loans. They do not want to make sure that all Swedes are involved and contribute to a healthy debt policy in Sweden. Liberals are mainly critical of the government's continuing, through its budget, to push for a policy aimed at subsidising more housing. It is a policy that is fundamentally wrong. Subsidies distort competition, and the funds go in the majority of cases to housing which will nevertheless be built. It is very clear from when these subsidies can be applied for. It is only when you have received a building permit and gone through an incredibly long process, which has probably taken three, four, five or six years, that you should apply for this subsidy to build the home. It falls to its own absurdity that construction companies should not have already planned for five to six years for a house to be built and that they will not then build if they do not receive building permits and funding from the state. That's not how it works. These subsidies go directly into the pocket of construction companies that have already planned to build these homes. On every visit that I have made to various construction companies in recent years, I have been confirmed that the homes that are now receiving subsidies are already planned. In Gothenburg, a developer said that it will be SEK 100 lower rent for a dwelling that is now being built. Yes, it will be 100 bucks cheaper than the one built two years ago. It's not actually getting more housing. The 10,000 homes Nooshi Dadgostar beat his chest for had already been built. What would have happened if we had actually given this money to pensioners and single parents? Liberals say no to housing subsidies. Instead, we invest money to raise housing allowances significantly more than the government proposes and their support party, the Left Party, also proposes. We are spending this money particularly on pensioners with guaranteed income and on families with multiple children. It is an effective policy to bring more scarce families into the housing market. While the government's policy thus means subsidising economically strong construction companies, which do not want the funds, Liberals' economic policy means helping resource-weak individuals who need housing allowances and housing allowances. If solidarity is to be compared, what is solidarity? Is it helping rich builders who have been granted a building permit and are going to build a home and who are happy to receive free money, or is it helping single mothers, as Nooshi Dadgostar and the Left Party earlier here patted themselves on the chest because they help get into the housing market and so that they can afford the rent? I am quite clear that I think that the help should go to individuals and not to companies. In their budget exercise, the Liberals propose four major initiatives in housing policy, in addition to the increased housing allowances. Firstly, the Liberals want to remove the removal tax, so that more people can afford to move to something they actually want to live in. We want to remove both the ceiling and the interest. It would be by far the largest and most effective effort to get a better functioning housing market, so that older Swedes can afford to move to something that is more adapted for them and so that multi-child families can move into the homes that many older Swedes today live in. Secondly, the Liberals want to reduce interest rates by 1% per year for ten years down to 20% and offset this with reduced income tax. We say no to the government's forthcoming amortisation requirement, which is only aimed at young people and single people. Thirdly, the Liberals agree that Boverket is given the task of developing something that the Swedish people and the industry actually want and need, namely public rental statistics, so that all Swedes can compare and see if they pay a fair rent. Fourthly, the Liberals are in favour of setting up a financial incentive contribution for municipalities that have shortened or successfully worked to shorten the processing times for planning and building permits cases. This provides far more housing than the discussion forums on which the Green Party spends all its money. I would then like to say something about consumer policy. In the field of consumer policy, the Liberals, together with the other alliance parties, are exercising a return to the objectives of the Alliance's consumer policy, which are about strengthening the consumer power of individuals. I therefore call for the approval of reservation 4, as did the other alliance parties. While Liberals believe that consumer policy should be used to strengthen consumer power, the Green Party wants to use consumer policy to control people's behaviour and to create coffee clubs for environmentalists. Liberals therefore continue to say no to the government's joint forum for eco-smart consumption. We are in favour of environmentally smart consumption, and we are in favour of working on these issues. However, this type of complex forum already exists, and the state does not have to be the one to invite. Instead, the industry can do it on its own. We do not need these conferences from the Green Party. Instead, we will talk about how to directly strengthen the consumer power, which the Swedish Consumer Agency is already tasked with doing today. Liberals are therefore in favour of increasing support for civil society organisations which in various ways strengthen consumer power. So we would rather give the money to consumer organisations. We in the Liberals also agree to invest funds in order for the Swedish Consumer Agency to find measures to strengthen the consumer power of people with disabilities. We want people with disabilities to be given the opportunity to use their consumer power in a good, clear and effective way, and it should be fair for them to be able to act. While the government invests in reducing and destroying the lives of Sweden's disabled people and investing in electric bicycles, we work in the Liberals instead of strengthening the rights of disabled people to be their best self. It is working on effective consumer policy. On the Liberal side, we believe that the draft budget must be seen as a whole, Mr President. That is why we do not support our own budget reservation, but have a separate opinion.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-197	Mr President, I would like to I have devoted myself to reading the Liberals' budget motion and what we are discussing in this House today. Liberals are the party that lowers taxes most for the absolutely richest. You have a distribution profile in your budget that means a lot richer rich, which the poor have to pay for. That's how the Liberals work these days. I find that boring, I would like to start by saying. I said in my speech that I think the bourgeois parties need to come up with how they want to resolve the situation. How are we going to build rental apartments and apartments with reasonable rents and prices? How is this to be done? What the government and the Left Party are doing is providing investment aid that will enable us to develop rental apartments with reasonable rents. In his speech, Robert Hannah asked what would have happened if we had not done so. Well, then we wouldn't have got any rentals with reasonable rents. After all, there are reasonable rents with this. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-200	Mr President, I would like to Who are the rich that Nooshi Dadgostar is talking about? They're midwives. Do you think a midwife is rich, Nooshi Dadgostar? Do you think a specialist nurse is rich? Do you think a first teacher is rich? Do you think ordinary svensson is rich? Because it's the ones you point out when you say we're lowering the taxes for the richest. Sweden has one of the highest income taxes in the world. What the Liberals want is a green tax shift in which we lower the tax on income and raise it on consumption – especially on what destroys the environment. It is not unreasonable to think it is a good policy so that Sweden can be more competitive in the world. To call midwives, specialist nurses and first teachers rich, however, seems unreasonable to me. What do we want to do to get more reasonable rents in Sweden? We think we have too little competition. We think our construction costs are higher than in other countries. We in the Liberals have been clear that we want type-approved houses that should be free to be built all over Sweden. Sabos's combo house is a great bet. We want in-depth overview plans as a general rule so that a municipality can plan ahead in time. We want k ommuner to plan as needed so that there will be detailed plans for the population growth that will exist. We want to strengthen those individuals who are really weak in resources. These are usually single parents and pensioners with guaranteed income, where we spend more on raising housing allowances than any other party in this room today. We are therefore doing a great deal in this area, but it is the market that needs to be improved. It is about getting a better and more functioning construction market. It is not building subsidies for houses that are already to be built that are the solution – unfortunately. All the developers I've met have said that the houses they now take money for, free of charge, and put in their pockets would already be built. This is not the solution.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-205	Mr President, I would like to It's not the way Robert Hannah says. Many of these houses had not been built, and they had certainly not had the low rents that they have today. That is what goes back to the people – the low rents and the new leases. After all, it is not the case that the housing supplement itself builds new dwellings. Robert Hannahs's party also wants market rents. In Stockholm or in my municipality of residence, which is located outside Stockholm, it might increase rents by 60 – 70 percent. In what way does Robert Hannah believe that market rents create construction that allows ordinary employees, for example, to get new rental rights if rents are to go up by 60 - 70 percent? How does that make sense, so to speak? That's my first question. Robert Hannahs's party also wants to lower the defense tax. It is the richest percentage in Sweden that pays military tax. In what way does it give more cheap rentals to lower taxes for the absolutely richest in Sweden?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-208	Mr President, I would like to I think it is a delusion when the Left Party talks about low rents. There are no low rents in new production; they will always be higher than for existing housing. What we need to invest in is smart renovations in the cheaper housing that is already on the market. There I can agree that you need to do a strong job. When it comes to building subsidies, one might ask whether a 90-talist really has a chance at a rental in Stockholm, Gothenburg or Malmö's inner city today. No, these subsidies go to people who are already in the housing queue. It's not the people you want to have the homes that get them, Nooshi Dadgostar. That should also be made clear. When I have talked to construction companies in my hometown Gothenburg it has become clear that it will be a 100 SEK cheaper rent for their tenants. Then take into account that a housing allowance for the single mother or pensioner with guaranteed income gives a SEK 1 000 - 2 000 lower rent each month. It is an effective housing policy, and it is helping those individuals who actually need support. Your subsidies will go to those who are first in line, and they are not the ones who need housing the most. Nooshi Dadgostar also speaks of rents raised by 60 - 70 percent. This may happen at Kungsholmen, Södermalm and Östermalm, but in practice we already have market levels in the largest parts of Sweden today. The homes that are now entering the housing market with presumable rents and with your subsidies are already far more expensive, and it is quite easy to get them in the inner cities. On the other hand, we need to think about how we get a market that works. What we have today is a completely non-functioning market of black trade, where 90-talists have no chance of entering the housing market at all and where there is a 25-year queue for a dwelling. I have even reported the housing queue in Stockholm to the Guinness Book of Records, and for one reason: We have a non-functioning housing market. We must solve this, and it is done not through more socialism but through more markets.
i-Noe8mW25HXRksbySdioVLQ	Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Civil Liberties is now debating Category 18 Community planning, housing and construction, and consumer policy. In my speech, I will talk mostly about housing policy, and I would like to start by calling for approval of the committee's proposals as a whole. Mr President, I would like to We are now standing here in the last budget debate of the parliamentary term. Almost four years have passed by the term of office, and if you look back, you can see that a lot has happened. Looking back on previous mandates, it can be observed that housing construction has been very low in many of the years of the 2000s. If you look at a curve or graph, you can see that it was only some of the years that housing construction came to over 30,000 homes a year. Today, reality is quite different. The years around 2017 will go down in history as some of the years in modern times when it was built more than in a very long time. According to Boverket's forecast, 76,000 homes will have started in 2017. According to the forecast for 2018, more than 70 000 homes will start. During this term of office, the government will very likely have ensured that over 250 000 homes have been started, which I still think can be seen as good. We have made sure that there have been good conditions for it to be built. Above all, we are very likely to reach the target set by the government to build at least 250 000 homes by 2020. Of course, this is not enough. Of course, more needs to be done. Nevertheless, it can be said that during these years we have proved that it is possible to start building housing and that it is possible to build housing. It is still being discussed and raised in the debate that we need further regulatory simplification. I believe that we must keep this in mind all the time, but anyone who says that housing cannot be built in Sweden is wrong. It's just to look at the statistics-- it's now being built like never before. Of course, the government cannot take credit for the construction that is taking place right now. The previous government certainly took a number of measures that were good and positive. I myself have praised Stefan Attefall for some of the things he has done that have made construction easier. My great thought, however, is: if it was the case that so many reforms were carried out during the last parliamentary term, why did the construction not start? It goes without saying to me. For me, building housing is not about regulations or economics, but about political will. What the Social Democratic-led government did at the beginning of this parliamentary term was clearly pointing out housing policy and housing construction as something very important. The government made a clear effort, where we said that in the coming years we will spend 6 billion a year to stimulate housing construction around the country. Among other things, that money has gone to a municipal bonus, where we have ensured that quite a few municipalities that previously did not have a housing supply plan now have one. During the time they have developed the housing supply plan, the municipalities have in many ways also considered where in the municipalities they can plan to build housing. I think this bonus has had a great effect. In my municipality of residence Linköping, which has received a lot of money, the bonus has meant that it has also started to plan projects for the coming years. A number of small municipalities may not have previously had a housing supply plan but have now developed one and will actively build in the coming years. I think the municipal bonus has been effective. In addition to this, we have spent a large proportion of these resources on investment aid. After all, investment aid has been widely debated in this House. In 2017, 10,000 homes will have been granted investment aid. Many of these homes had certainly been built anyway, but we would have had completely different rental levels than those we have now. I believe that everyone who will be standing in this speaker's seat today agrees that the major challenge ahead is that we must ensure that the rents are reasonable when it is being built. The state has also provided money for the clean-up of land for residential purposes. I believe that this is an extremely important measure. I have met many municipalities that are very happy with this support. They have land for which they are unable today to get the calculations together. Through support that enables them to clean up for housing purposes, however, they have started the construction of a number of plots where it has been difficult in the past. The government is carrying out a major review of the building regulations. This is something that should have been done a long time ago. My view is that we should be careful to touch especially much more in the PBL. Adjustments need to be made, but not so much. I believe, however, that there is much to be done in the construction rules. This evaluation and scrutiny should have been carried out a long time ago. We have support for the construction of old-age housing. This is a very attractive support, which many are looking for. The most fascinating thing is that we agree with a number of the alliance parties that support for the construction of old-age towns is something that we need. I cannot understand the difference between subsidising the construction of older dwellings and housing for the elderly and subsidising the construction of other dwellings. Finally, we have a number of additional measures concerning renovation aid, urban agreements and the like. These have contributed in various ways to the construction of municipalities. To be quite honest: The government has done a lot of good things, but basically it is the municipalities that will take credit for the increased housing construction. These are municipalities that want to. We can see a great many municipalities that today have doubled their housing construction, and it is in many ways a matter of political will. Look at municipalities like Örebro, Linköping and Malmö, where politics has actually made a difference! There, the political leadership has clearly pointed out and said: we need to get housing building up in order to build up the housing shortage. This has produced results. Basically, with a Social Democratic-led government together with Social-Democratic-led municipalities, it is being built in this country. History has shown time and again that this is when it is built. Mr President, I would like to On the other hand, we are not satisfied. Of course there are still challenges. This becomes particularly clear at the moment. The market is overheated in some places. You can see that there is a concern. There are tendencies that everything that is being built will not be sold or rented out. This is something that needs to be analysed and which must be taken very seriously. On the other hand, I believe that this analysis must be carried out for a long time. I do not think we can say today whether this is a real estate bubble or whether it is just a return to normality. Of course, this must be taken into account, but I am convinced that Sweden still has a housing shortage and that housing needs to continue to be built in Sweden. Perhaps the product that is currently being built and the product that is currently being sold must change. Because if the housing market is a market like any other, as at least some of the previous speakers here have expressed, this means that it would work and that we would get products that are cheaper. But right now that's not happening. I believe that we need more political governance and a greater discussion on how housing policy will work in the future. Mr President, I would like to We see that there are challenges. I believe that almost all previous speakers in the speaker's chair have said that we now need a new overall housing policy. I agree with that. We need a comprehensive housing policy, and we need cross-block talks. The most important thing in the future is that we have a long-term policy, a fair tax reform and a number of simplifications that enable us to keep up a large, continuous construction – above all, the construction of homes with reasonable rents. That's where we seem to agree, and that's usually where the conversation ends. But I think that we also need to move forward in the discussion and in the discussion and think about what are the fundamental values of Swedish housing policy. I think we should take our starting point here. Let's not talk about different ideological blind spots. Maybe we need to change rental systems. We may have to invest in more housing. The state must definitely take greater responsibility. These issues are not discussed at all. If we are to have cross-block talks and a long-term housing policy, we must have a starting point on which values should be fundamental. Sweden is today one of the countries in Europe that spend absolutely the least money on the social housing sector. I think we need to add more, and I hope that the bourgeois side also realises that we need to spend more money. Robert Hannah from the Liberals mentioned in his speech that we need to increase housing allowances and housing allowances. Maybe we have to. The problem, however, is that it creates very large lock-in effects. How are we going to deal with this? It is not only possible to increase subsidies but also to reflect on the consequences. Mr President, I would like to We are facing major challenges. There is a shortage of housing and not enough is being built today. Above all, housing that people can afford to live in is not being built. For me, it is about creating a housing policy that develops the Swedish model, that is, a system that is general and that does not point out individuals or put different groups against each other. We will create this in the traditional Swedish spirit – together. It should be based on what is the basic foundation in Sweden, i.e. the Swedish model. Then I think that we must have a common vision of a general system, a system that is unique to Sweden, and that we should protect the Swedish model. I would like to take these fundamental values with me to the future discussions on how to develop the Swedish housing market.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-247	Mr President, I would like to We have now heard the Johan Löfstrand of the Soci al democrats and will shortly hear the Green Party's Emma Hult – two representatives for whom I have great respect, because both are pragmatic and knowledgeable in the area of housing policy and actually want to achieve more. I want to say it. The problem is that there is a double lock in the government, because where Johan Löfstrand is pragmatic, Emma Hult is dogmatic, and where Emma Hult is pragmatic, Johan Löfstrand is dogmatic. To all this shall be added the less pragmatic housing policy of the Left Party. The problem I am talking about with regard to the double-locking of the Red-Green Government is that we have a social democrat who vetoes all structural changes in the housing market and that we have an environmental party, which, on top of everything, is in the ministerial post, which vetoes all the necessary, decisive regulatory simplifications. This is not, therefore, an automatic road to success in Sweden's housing crisis. I note that Johan Löfstrand also wants housing policy deliberations, where we all turn all the stones around. Of course, Mr President, we all have sacred cows that we must slaughter in housing policy. I can speak on behalf of my party and say that we are prepared to do so and know that my fellow alliances too have a will to do so. But then both the Social Democrats and the Green Party – I have now given up on the Left Party – must also be prepared to do so. After the previous housing policy talks, we perceive that all sacred cows remain on the government side. Is that still the case? If they are left, list the holy cows.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-253	Mr President, I would like to Basically, I agree with Mats Green that we probably have to turn over many stones to solve the challenges we face. And I think that the government in many ways had an open agenda in the housing policy talks where the absolute majority of questions could be discussed. The issue that is the hallmark of the eight years of alliance government has been regulatory simplification. In this area, one can say that the current government lifted all the stones that could be lifted and made a pretty big deal about which reforms we thought were appropriate and not. After the housing policy talks, the government delivered a 22-point programme, and in the area of regulatory simplification there is now a broad consensus. It is even the case that the construction industry has gone out and said: Do not touch the PBL any more, but rather focus on other things, because that is not where changes are needed. We then focus on reviewing the construction rules rather than the planning issues. So we have made a number of major changes and shifts in this area. As far as taxation is concerned, we were very interested in finding an agreement. Unfortunately, the discussions on tax policy became a political farce in which to review what the various people had said in closed rooms, which I found sad. I think we would have had a much better situation if we had come forward in the tax field. But it became a little too much political playhouse. Finally, what I think is important if we are to hold housing policy talks, as I said in my speech and which is actually my counter-question to Mats Green, is: What values do the Moderates and Mats Green want to stand up for if we are to reform and create a new housing policy system?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-258	Mr President, I would like to I agree with much of what Johan Löfstrand says. And I know Johan's frustration about the government partner Environmental Party's inability to act and address the simplest issues. I know that, and I respect that. We have seen a number of examples of this in housing policy that have not benefited the country. However, when it comes to what content we want in housing policy, I do not think there are any differences in vision whatsoever. We need more available housing for everyone in all price categories. Those who need a rented accommodation should receive a rented accommodation. Those who want a owned accommodation, and it is always the cheapest in the long run, should also have the opportunity to buy and own their accommodation. In particular, this applies to those with small economic margins, because the lock-in effects that we are seeing now are, above all, hitting low wage earners. For a party that still has social mobility as the main idea, this is A and O. But again, the problem is that we have a government that remains with too many sacred cows. This applies from rent regulation to beach protection, national interests and one with the other. I am prepared to swallow a lot that I don't really believe in as long as we get a housing policy agreement that really starts to deal with all the basic problems in the dysfunctional Swedish housing market. I'm willing to take that in hand. The problem is that the government went into the housing policy deliberations with the ambition to do as little as possible, to get rid of the policy area and bury the major issues in investigations. This is not how the Swedish housing crisis is solved. Again: We need to go into depth with our housing challenges.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-263	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I may be frustrated at regular intervals. But that frustration is quite often directed at some of the alliance partners and to a large extent against the actions of some authorities, for there is a lot to do and to feel frustrated about. I can also note that during the rather short time he has been Minister of Housing, Peter Eriksson has achieved a great deal. He has made a number of proposals. Above all, I think that Peter Eriksson has been active in the debate and in a wise way contributed to the fact that we have moved forward the positions and made sure that housing construction is a matter of course, while he has argued wisely for both investment aid and other measures that I think are good. On the question of fundamental values, Mats Green says that we probably agree on them. But I do not think we agree, and that is probably the basic problem. One of the starting points of moderate policy is that we should make a fairly large reform of the leasing system. Then my idea is: Do the Moderates think it is not very important if a large part of the housing stock will be more expensive? Ramböll investigated what the introduction of pure market rents – that is not what the Moderates are proposing – would mean in Stockholm. This would mean that the rents would increase by about 17 billion in the Stockholm area. If one were to reform renting a little, it would entail a rather large cost, and then one would have to raise housing allowances quite substantially to compensate for this. I'm afraid I don't think we're in agreement.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-268	Mr President, I would like to I take my starting point in the description of the history with which Johan Löfstrand began his speech. It was forgotten in the description, as so often, that in the early 2010s we had one of the worst financial crises that we have experienced during the time that I have been politically active. But it is often not mentioned as a factor in the fact that housing policy, as it stands today, is that way. It is also often forgotten to mention that the curves over housing construction increased quite sharply already during Stefan Attefall's time as Minister of Housing 2013. Nevertheless, I understand from Johan Löfstrand's speech that he actually agrees that the dwellings completed with building subsidies, in municipalities that have planned for and decided on these dwellings and that are now also rewarded with a building bonus, are dwellings that were decided even before the current government's accession, i.e. before 2014. I would like to hear Johan Löfstrand confirm that this picture is correct. If we talk about the future, it is true that we have a high level of housing. A great deal is being built, and the reason for this is that we have regulatory simplifications in place. The 55 missions or all the investigations that were set up were often rallied. After all, 55 missions and proposals were decided when the current government took office. It is very much this, combined with a favourable economic climate, which makes it build, and it is built because there are people who can afford to pay. The question that I would like to ask Johan Löfstrand is: How does he ensure that it will also be built in the future when interest rates rise, credit restrictions will increase and price developments instead of rising will rather be curbed?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-273	Mr President, I would like to I can be honest and admit that we had a financial crisis earlier in the 21st century. But it is quite fascinating that every time we have had a Social Democratic-led government, that is, in the period 2002-2006 and the period 2014 to today, housing construction has been much, much higher than it has ever been in the bourgeois years. Either we have only one rascal's turn with the economic cycle, or the political initiative in the state and the municipality actually provides higher housing construction in the country. I believe in the latter. In answer to Ola Johansson's questions about investment aid, I can say that yes, that is the case. I can see that some of the homes now being built with investment aid would have been built anyway. Then you can see that we will have ten weeks of processing time, so some of the homes that were built in 2017 must still have started to be planned during our reign. Actually, I think it is. What we can see is that investment aid has meant that we now have 10 000 homes in this country, which for 15 years will have significantly lower rents, which was the aim. The aim was to create housing with lower rents. When we are in the discussion about lower rents, we can say that what one can accuse the bourgeoisie of most of all was that during the eight years of bourgeois rule, 60 000 homes that had otherwise been relatively cheap were sold out in Stockholm. It was ensured that they were converted into residential apartments, which has made it very, very difficult to find cheap housing in Stockholm. This is something for which the bourgeoisie could be blamed during their eight years: 60 000 dwellings were converted, thus reducing the number of cheap rental apartments.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-278	Mr President, I would like to After all, it is something of a curse in politics that just when bourgeois, alliance-led governments take office, a global financial crisis occurs. We will have to get used to it, because we see the risk of this also in 2018. This is also one of the strongest reasons why there is a great difference between the budget presented by the government and the budget of the alliance parties. We are much more moderate in state expenditure, precisely because we know that something like this can happen. It is a discussion that has taken place in the past, but we shall have this with us in today's debate. It seems that we agree that cross-block talks on the long-term rules of the game are needed. For us in the Center Party, it is important that such a dialogue does not back off to discuss renting in new production, a gradual reduction in interest rebates, the introduction of a housing saving for young people, which allows young people to also own their homes and not only to be referred to the somewhat limited rental market, and also to review the taxes that make it expensive to move. I also note that Johan Löfstrand talks about the need for a social housing policy, which is an important factor. We must realise, however, that it is a question of seeing whether there are opportunities to control these massive subsidies and to use the funds to strengthen those who are weakest in the housing market. After all, there is a reason why the alliance parties choose to invest funds in housing for special groups, such as the elderly, and that is that the EU's state aid rules do not allow anything other than that. But it is clear that it is possible to discuss how this definition should be made, that is, whether state aid should also be used to support people who are very far removed from the housing market today.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-283	Mr President, I would like to I think that Ola Johansson and I in many ways agree on many of the things that we need to discuss. I think that's good. I am absolutely convinced that we need to make a proper tax reform. On the other hand, I think it is important that, when we do this tax reform, we consider what values and what values it should be based on. Many of today's taxes in the area of housing policy are extremely distortive and distributively disastrous, I say. Neither of us, of course, wants to change the property tax; it is politically impossible this one year before the elections. However, it can be observed that today's property tax is hitting the households with the weakest economy. If you have a higher income and a property that is worth more, then you pay just as much in property tax as the one that has a very cheap dwelling. There are a number of such examples where the tax system we have today is very wrong in terms of distribution policy. There definitely needs to be a tax reform, but it must be a tax reform based on a completely different philosophy of distribution policy from the taxes that we have today. When it comes to social housing policy, it is again the case: we need to think about what values we should protect when we create a social housing policy. I am absolutely convinced that housing allowance and housing allowance are something that we must retain. We must also be aware of what the housing supplement and housing allowance mean, namely that people are locked up. Looking out over Europe, where there are such systems, we see that it is very passivating with contributions that lock people in. This means that people do not have the energy to take a job and do not develop as individuals. That is why we need to discuss what these systems should look like, and I would like to do so in the future. In essence, however, we need to think about how the Swedish model should develop rather than be phased out.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-288	Mr President, I would like to Johan Löfstrand is a progressive force in the Social Democrats, and I really look forward to the housing inquiry that you are now working on, the social housing policy that you are sitting and doing yourself. There are both some innovative forces in it and forces that may try to do what they can to keep this system, to be developed, as it was so beautifully called here at the end. So what you come up with will be interesting to see. I would still like to hear how Johan Löfstrand wants to develop our housing market. If I'm going to be concrete, I've raised this issue of owner-occupied housing, which is the most common form outside our country's borders. I also talked about how to develop collective housing and maybe even rentals, which is also a model that exists. I have asked the government several times, and I have to say that I get rather unclear answers. I guess the feeling is a big sceptic. My first question is therefore: what does the government intend to do to encourage new forms of housing? I believe that this is a fairly important key to developing our housing market. I would also like to comment on the fact that housing allowances have major lock-in effects. I very much agree with that, but I also think it is a problem to build very generally to get lower rents instead of targeting these subsidies to groups. Johan Löfstrand mentioned that we Christian Democrats and parts of the rest of the Alliance are in favour of investing in older people. Yes, because municipalities that are S-, MP- and V-led otherwise invest in building hotels and swimming pools. They are committed to doing a great deal other than building retirement homes. Therefore, this targeted aid is a way of targeting a specific group as well. I think that is justified, unlike the government's general investment aid.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-293	Mr President, I would like to I note that what we in this group are working on is extremely exciting and interesting, and I can already say today that I am absolutely convinced that everyone in the group will support all the proposals that the group will put forward. I think that's very important. It is again about what system we want and what should be the values. A very large part of the housing policy we have today is distributive policy. We need to reform it in a number of different areas. Above all, we must note that housing policy is not like that of any market. It is a political area in which society and the state must take a little more responsibility. You asked a question about new and fresh ideas, Caroline Szyber. It's really important. We must ensure that the existing stock is exploited much better than we are doing today. That is to a great extent the key to a much greater extent than the fact that we are going to be able to build away the housing shortage. I believe that today there are many homes that are not being used efficiently or efficiently enough, how we want to use them. We need to have a discussion on how to increase the mobility of the stock and ensure that people find suitable accommodation in the modern world we live in today. It can definitely be interesting to see how we can change regulations so that it is easier to live together and so on. It must also be noted that people want to live in a special way. If we look at the reform with Attefallshus, the aim was to build 150 000 of these. I think it's turned into 1,800 homes when you look back. That reform did not really have the effect it was supposed to have. I think a lot of people want to live the way they live today.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-298	Mr President, I would like to I don't agree at all. I don't think many people live as they please today. It is a big part of the problem in our housing market that people today hardly dare to have housing dreams, because so many are so incredibly far away from the housing market. There is a need for a new grip where you think new. You may pay a certain part of your rent, get an option, and after a few years you may have an opportunity to buy your home. This applies to people who today could never get a loan from the bank and are ever further away from their house dream. Perhaps they could buy their apartment or even buy a house. If you haven't come in, it's incredibly much harder. What is now the greatest possibility is that one's residents will gain value. When it comes to Attefall, it has been rallied from different directions. When I have spoken to Stefan Attefall myself, I have been told that it was a reform of freedom. I know it's very difficult for some people in here to see the value of a freedom reform and of freedom and freedom of choice. It can be a debate of its own in itself. It was a reform of freedom. It was that people themselves could build on their own plot. You can ralli a lot about a lot of different things. However, there are municipalities that have used part of Attefallhusen to help people who have been outside the housing market. It has been your own children and some new arrivals. I'm not saying this is the solution, far from it. But there is nothing to be gained by pointing the finger at those who, in any case, are trying to do their bit, especially from a political point of view. It could be four, ten, hundred or thousands of new homes. We need everyone. Instead of pointing fingers, we should be positive about those who rebuild or build new ones and choose to rent out. I have still not received an answer to my question about trying out new approaches in the housing market.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-303	Mr President, I would like to I can agree with Caroline that Stefan Attefall has done a lot that was positive for Swedish housing policy. I have said this in the speaker's seat before, and I can say it now. He was and is dedicated to finding systems. For example, he is a large representative of the current leasing system. Now I'm not going to take his own words, but he's going to have to develop it himself. But the picture I get is that he thinks the system we have today works well. Caroline, in her speech, highlights the housing dream. She is the first of the alliance representatives to highlight an important value and not discuss regulatory simplifications or taxes. This is something that should be the basis for a future Swedish housing policy. The housing dream and the concept of freedom are two such values that I share and believe are extremely important. Rent purchase or a development of a new home business are things that we should definitely support and develop. I myself come from a municipality where we have a municipal housing company that has used rental purchase models. Such initiatives already exist today. That is something that I think we should promote. Surely it must be that people should be able to ask for a dwelling! The problem when we discuss freedom and when alliance representatives discuss freedom is: Freedom for whom? It will be very easy that it is those who have the possibility of freedom. I want a concept of freedom that includes the entire population, where a large part of the population can have the housing dream. Then we must make radical changes and have a completely different distributional policy profile on the housing policy that is being conducted today. I'll have to come back to your last question on another occasion.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-307	Mr President, I would like to A policy that does not put groups against each other, so said Johan Löfstrand from the Social Democrats very proudly here earlier from the pulpit. The interesting thing about this is that groups are currently being pitted against each other. The government intends to introduce an amo rtering requirement which means that 15 per cent will not be able to enter the housing market. That's because it doesn't dare to grab the interest rebates. It's putting groups against each other. But I would like to talk about another issue where groups are also being put against each other. We had a very large proportion of asylum seekers who came in autumn 2015. The question is, where are they going to live? It is an issue for which you in the government are responsible, because it arose in 2015 when you had the government power. I asked Mehmet Kaplan the question. He didn't have any suggestions. I have asked Peter Eriksson the question. He can't answer that. In practice, this has meant that municipalities have used rental apartments from the housing queue so that young people cannot have a place to live. It has also bought dwellings from the ordinary market because people do not have anywhere else to live. Ylva Johansson answered a question in which I say that it is not reasonable for new arrivals to take permanent precedence over others who also need housing. I have not heard a single proposal from the government since I entered the Riksdag about how to work to ensure that new arrivals do not take precedence over gender and that groups are not set against each other. The only thing that has been implemented is what came out of the Migration Agreement between the Alliance and the Government. Apart from that, there is nothing to come up with at all. The Liberals wanted a state of emergency, and they talked about it already in autumn 2015, so that more housing can be found. We also want to use the Migration Agency's accommodation in a better way so that the municipalities could buy them up or use the Migration Agency's sites. Instead, they have been empty and cost us money. I want an answer to the question. How do you not put groups against each other when it comes to new arrivals and their housing needs?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-311	Mr President, I would like to Robert Hannah knows, like the rest of us in this room, that what happened after the migration crisis was something that Swedish society has not experienced in decades. These were huge challenges, and we are still living in a great deal of those challenges. I can see that there is a great deal to be done here. As a social democrat, I am not satisfied with the situation today, but we want to make a difference. I've already picked up one thing in my previous line shift. One of the greatest misdemeanors that the bourgeoisie did during its rule was to allow 60 000 dwellings in Stockholm to be converted into residential units. This means that 60 000 homes, which were relatively cheap, have been redesigned and are currently exclusive residences. This means that households with a low income cannot demand them. This offence has made the housing market in Stockholm even worse than it has been. What the government has done is that it has presented an investment aid that ensures that opportunities are created to build more housing with reasonable rent. Basically, the question is municipal. It is the government's view that municipalities should take that responsibility but that the state must take greater responsibility. It is already doing so today, but it must do so to an even greater extent. It must support local authorities in developing housing that people can afford. Then, at the end, Robert Hannah takes up the measures highlighted by the Liberals, such as a state of emergency. I can see that it would have been difficult for the Liberals to put forward such a proposal in a government position, as in practice it is very difficult to implement. The only concrete thing I see is that we want to increase the housing allowance, and that will not be enough.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-316	Mr President, I would like to Johan Löfstrand said many times that he can say one thing and the other. I can do the same in that case: I can see that I did not get any answer at all to the question of where the new arrivals are going or how you are working on a policy that, as you so nicely talked about earlier, does not set groups against each other. There are no answers at all from the government to these questions, and you are guilty because you are in the government. If you do not want to take responsibility in these matters, you can leave the government. What the Liberals proposed in autumn 2015 was to try a certain number of exemption rules to see if they work to get more housing faster so that young and new arrivals get shelter over their heads and so that we don't put groups against each other. If the rules were to work and if it were to be found that they were effective and good once they were evaluated, they could also be applied in Sweden as a whole. In addition, we clearly suggested that the accommodations purchased by the Finnish Immigration Service should not be empty. Money should not be wasted. The Social Democrats have not listened to this either. I can also say that you have no answer whatsoever to this. The only thing I can read out of Johan Löfstrand's answer is that we would have used these 60 000 apartments in Stockholm's inner city to put the new arrivals in. If so, it is also putting groups against each other. I still haven't got an answer to the question. It is clear, Mr President, that the Social Democrats have no answer to the question. That's why I don't get an answer.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-321	Mr President, I would like to What I meant when I spoke about the reorganisation of the 60 000 homes in the inner city of Stockholm is that if we had not reconfigured them, there would have been 60 000 rental apartments that more people would have had the opportunity to demand. I think that would have been a good thing. Above all, I believe that from a social housing policy perspective it would have been much better to have 60 000 rents with relatively low rents. I think that would have mattered today. Robert Hannah says that the Social Democratic-led government has done nothing and nothing has happened. It can surely be said that in the autumn of 2015 no one thought that it would start almost 80 000 homes in this country in 2017. This means that in the coming years we will complete a couple of hundred thousand homes. This is because we have a boom, a government that has put pressure on the issue and municipalities that have taken responsibility. Robert Hannah says that the government does nothing – now that we have the highest housing building in manna memory! This is because we have high pressure and that the conditions for building housing have been created. I think we've done things and things are happening. But I can agree if more needs to be done if we are to ensure that we create a housing policy that gives everyone the opportunity for a housing dream and gives everyone the opportunity and freedom to grow. Then I do not think the solution is simply to increase housing allowances.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-325	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. Not since the days of the million-dollar programme have so many homes been built in Sweden as at present. That so much is being built is absolutely necessary, not least given how little was built during the eight years of the Alliance in power. The housing debt that has been built up for a long time is now being addressed. During the period that the Environmental Party has held the Ministry of Housing, the number of dwellings started has increased to an average of 63,000 per year, which is more than a doubling compared to the time of the Alliance. We are also pleased to note that many new student apartments and apartments are being built for young people. In 2016, 3,487 student apartments were completed, which is the largest number in one year since 2002. But more student apartments are needed. No one should have to turn down a place of education due to a housing shortage. Therefore, the government has now given Akademiska Hus the task of enabling an additional 11,000 homes to be built by 2021. Although it has not been built this much in about 40 years, we have a long road ahead of us before we reach a housing market in balance. According to Konjunkturinstitutet and the construction companies, the single largest brake ball is currently the shortage of labour in the construction sector. This is not a problem that is solved overnight, but I am pleased to note that the government is now investing in higher education in the civil engineering sector and is also proposing an extension of the university of applied sciences and regional vocational qualifications, which contributes to an improvement in labour capacity. However, much remains to be done. The construction processes need to be both greener and more efficient in order for us to produce affordable housing. It should be housing that from a life-cycle perspective is nice to live in, which does not waste our limited resources and which also fits different wallets. Here the Green Party in government has begun an incredibly important work. The digitalisation of the planning and construction process is a crucial step in bringing about new housing more quickly. Despite the fact that digitalisation has been going on for several decades, much of the information in the civil engineering process is still analogue and paper-based. This applies to planning, design and legal documents, but also to the construction, operation and management itself. Therefore, I am very pleased that the Government has now commissioned Boverket to develop and ensure an effective and uniform application of the Planning and Construction Act in a digital environment. This has been done, among other things, by establishing and setting digital standards for outline plans, detailed plans and planning documents from national authorities. For the implementation of this, the government allocates additional money to Boverket, while I note that the Moderates, the Center Party and the Liberals are making major cuts to Boverket. I therefore put the question to these parties: how do you want the construction sector to be digitised? Or don't you want to? Digitisation does not end with the planning process. With today's technology, the government sees that there are great opportunities to streamline and develop innovative solutions that can contribute to a development that is both economically, environmentally and socially sustainable. In concrete terms, these could include effective solutions for transport, waste management and energy systems, or methods for citizen dialogue and inclusion. Therefore, I am very proud of the government's efforts in the Smart Cities collaboration programme. It is a collaboration programme that is also important for us at international level to be able to share what we in Sweden are good at and for us to be able to take part of what others have to contribute with. It is also about being able to meet the goals of Agenda 2030 and to implement the Government's strategy for a sustainable digital society. Mr President, I would like to We have two really big challenges ahead of us. On the one hand, we must ensure that those who today have no place to live get a place to live and have the opportunity to pay for this home, and, on the other hand, we must ensure that everything we build is as good as possible for the people, the environment and the climate. The municipalities have housing responsibility, but the state must also assume its responsibility for building housing for everyone and for ensuring that what is built is sustainable and is used effectively. The Government accepts this responsibility and has, among other things, commissioned a government coordinator to establish housing construction on state land and residential building in the form of a large collective exploitation while clarifying the county boards' mission to actively contribute to housing construction. Unfortunately, we can see that the need for the state to take a major responsibility for the construction of new housing is particularly great after the eight years that the Alliance ruled Sweden. The Alliance parties have proved not only passive in government but also directly irresponsible in opposition. This proved to be particularly true last spring when they chose to leave the cross-block talks on housing policy. This is very serious. Long-term rules of the game are needed for a stable housing market. It is therefore very welcome that in today's debate several of the bourgeois parties have said that they would like to resume the talks or start new talks. However, as we have heard in the debate, it also needs to be the case that you want, and not just think. Unfortunately, the examples do not stop there. When the Alliance in 2014 proudly launched the construction of Sweden, there was a strong ambition not only to connect and develop Sweden's growing cities with fast, modern train lines, but also to create 100,000 new homes along the planned high-speed railway. The government has continued the Alliance's initiative with the Swedish negotiations, which has so far resulted in a threefold increase in the number of negotiated housing. It is therefore beyond belief that the Moderates and Liberals now claim to be prepared to close the door to high-speed trains and thus to 300 000 new homes. I wonder: How do the Moderates and Liberals think it benefits Sweden and the housing crisis to say no to these homes? It is clear that the Moderates and Liberals have become something of a sort of defector party. That they do not want to take responsibility here and now affects future generations who will find it difficult to find a home and transport themselves in Sweden in a sustainable way. The housing issue requires courage and action now. Sweden needs faith in the future and a government that is prepared to act and pursue decisions. I am proud of the government we have today that is doing this. Mr President, I would like to The Government has implemented many important electricity improvements in order to facilitate and improve housing construction. Several studies have been set up, including to modernise Boverket's building regulations and to review the planning of the survey and the possibility of abolishing building permit requirements for solar cells and panels, for example. The Government has also introduced fixed-term building permits for temporary dwellings. It is a legislative amendment that increases the possibility of using temporary housing as a complement to permanent construction and also allows land to be used more efficiently, for example during long planning processes. In addition, the appeal process has been shortened and made more legally secure. Mr President, I would like to In recent months it has become clear that building more is not enough. We must also ensure that what is being built is housing where people can afford to live, that what is being built today has as little environmental and climate impact as possible and that it is of good standard. There should be housing for all ages and income levels, for people with different needs and for young people and students. We must not forget that what we are building now is building for future generations and that the society we are planning for today must last for a long time to come. I am proud that our government has taken a series of measures to increase the production of sustainable housing in which even people with lower incomes can afford to live. One of the most important initiatives the government is making in this area is investment support. We note that the 10 000 less expensive rental apartments built this year had not been built without government investment aid. There is also a special climate bonus that can be applied for for housing projects with low energy consumption. The climate bonus in the investment support has enabled thousands of new passive houses to be built. One third of the houses that have been granted investment support are of passive house standard. Investment support lowers rents and reduces climate impact. I'm proud of that. A shining example of how investment aid works is found in the moderate-controlled municipality of Tyresö. The private construction and housing company Botrygg has built apartment buildings in Tyresö city centre where the rents are about SEK 2 000 lower per apartment than they had become without the support. The project also meets the requirements for low energy use, which also makes it better for the climate. The municipal housing company in Tyresö also builds housing with investment support. They are probably the cheapest rental rights in Stockholm County, thanks to the state investment support that all alliance parties now want to abolish. Mr President, I would like to The Government wants to focus on the need for a life cycle perspective in housing construction. This is something that has long been in demand and that is really needed. This is why the Government has commissioned Boverket and directives for the Committee on Modernisation of Construction Rules to investigate this. Boverket has also been given a special mandate to establish an information centre for sustainable construction. The aim is to promote increased energy efficiency in renovation, but also to stimulate energy-efficient new building with the use of sustainable materials and low climate impact from a life-cycle perspective. In addition, the Government will contribute SEK 75 million for 2018, which is aimed at innovative and sustainable construction. More houses need to be built in wood. In addition to the fact that wooden houses are more climate-smart than concrete houses, wood is a renewable building material. In addition, there is the raw material locally, which contributes to a stronger wood industry, which in turn contributes to more jobs and a more vibrant countryside. The Government is actively working to recognise that wood is a sustainable building material with many advantages, including through targeted resources to Trästad Sweden and through efforts to simplify industrial wood construction. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has gone from a passive to an active housing policy where we do not shrink back from difficult challenges but instead work together with the municipalities around the country to create sustainable housing for everyone. With the Green Party in the government, we build Sweden strong and sustainable in the long term. It clearly does not work that as the Alliance did passively sit and watch and hope that the market or someone else will solve the problems. It is not responsible to get off the train and say no to high-speed trains, to 300 000 homes and to modern infrastructure. We must jointly continue to build a modern, inclusive and sustainable Sweden.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-349	Mr President, I would like to I note that the representatives of the Green Party are unable to take the floor from this point of view. Perhaps that says everything about the dogmatism that now affects the government. Mr President, I would like to The party, i.e. the Environmental Party, which in many municipalities and in the Swedish parliament has been the most diligent in resisting both concrete constructions and all measures to make it easier and easier to build, has now been given responsibility in the government for the fact that more housing is being built than ever in Sweden. It is not an automatic road to success, but, as one might say in my constituency of Jönköping County, it is a bit like putting an atheist in the bishop's bench. Two thirds of all the measures now listed by Emma Hult are to be remembered by the Alliance government. She talked about commissioning Akademiska Hus to start building student housing, and it was the Alliance that took the initiative, not the Green Party or the current government. Much of the regulatory improvements, as Emma Hult calls it, while the rest of us say regulatory simplifications, which have now had to be implemented, are things that the Environmental Party joined forces with the Swedish Democrats, the Social Democrats and the Left Party during the previous parliamentary term to stop in the Riksdag. I think you should be well aware of that. I would like to ask a question in view of the debate, the policy and the housing discussion in general absent the Minister for Housing. Your party friends in Sweden's Municipalities and County Council say that the biggest obstacle for them to start building is the restrictions and rules that exist. Are you prepared to listen to your party friends in Sweden's Municipalities and County Council, Emma Hult?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-354	Mr President, I would like to I can tell you how many times you want. Regrets, simplifications, simplifications. I have no problem taking that word in my mouth, Mats Green. On the other hand, a simplification of the rules is not always linked to an improvement. Therefore, I think that a better word to use is regulatory improvements, which sometimes also means regulatory simplification or regulatory changes. That is why I choose the word 'rule improvement'. Then we've done it. Mats Green claims that the Minister for Housing is not present in the general debate on housing policy, but then I do not know where Mats Green is, what he is looking at or what he is listening to. You have met him yourself in both television and other forums in the housing policy debate. I would like to ask the same question that I asked in the speaker's chair, and I had hoped that you would say something about it, Mats Green. What do you say to the Jönköpingers about the homes that Jönköping will not be able to build now because you say no to high-speed trains? You're talking about an atheist on the bishop's bench. I'm talking about housing for those who have no place to live. A no to the high-speed train means no to 300 000 homes in Sweden. I don't think that's responsible. So I would like to ask the question again because I put it in the speaker's chair, and I hope to be able to get an answer.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-358	Mr President, I would like to I have met the Minister for Housing in a number of debates. In every debate, the Minister for Housing has declared that he has no responsibility. His only responsibility is to make demands on the municipalities to build. My entrance – the entrance of the Moderates and the Alliance – is more that we should facilitate construction in the municipalities. The Minister of Housing goes country and country around and declares that there are others who will do what he is paid for and who are his duty and duty in the government. It is one thing to say that you have an active housing policy and quite another to really have it, as the Green Party has shown. Emma Hult spoke about the 300 000 new homes in the Swedish package and new homes in Jönköping. Jönköping is my municipality of residence, and I had the privilege to sit there with Emma Hult and make sure that the construction of a lot of new homes started. It is about housing that we know the municipalities will in any case build, but we need to make it easier for the municipalities to build them. As far as Jönköping is concerned, the Green Party has probably been the biggest opponents of the most concrete projects. For example, reference has been made to relics, which are a beetle, in order to put a stop to residential construction on Torp's meadows. This is one in a wide range of examples. I could go through the municipality for the municipality in Sweden to show everything the Green Party has been against. But let me say again that we need more measures. This is not just a matter of simplification. That's where Emma Hult is right. So we need more than just regulatory simplification, but we cannot get it out of hand. We need more than this to tackle the housing crisis in Sweden, and then we have a problem. For the Social Democrats veto the government against structural changes in the housing market and the Green Party vetoes all forms of regulatory simplification. This is not a road to success in the housing crisis; it is a road to disaster.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-364	Mr President, I would like to It is one thing to say that you have an active housing policy; it is another thing to actually have it. In 12 of the 15 municipalities in Sweden where it is being built most right now, the Green Party rules. Mats Green mentioned in his speech that this government has made so few proposals. We've been looking at it a little bit. During the term of office that began in 2006, you had your own majority in the Swedish Parliament. Compared to the corresponding period now – three years into the mandate – you would have put forward five proposals. We've put forward six. You counted nice to seven, so we can say seven. This has been investigated by Parliament's investigation service, so I think the figure is correct. Mats Green must understand that it is about having the will, as Johan Löfstrand mentioned earlier. The government has political will, which obviously also our municipal politicians outside Sweden have. I'm proud of that. On the other hand, I am concerned that you may put an end to the high-speed investment that we want to implement in Sweden. It will make it possible to live in the whole country. In those parts of the country where high-speed trains are being built, such as Jönköping, from which we both come, housing that is not being built today will be able to be built because there is no transport infrastructure. I would like to conclude by saying something about the relic goat. It is part of our biodiversity, and it is needed just like many other animal species like man. What Mats Green says is not true. We've looked into this as well. It was not that the Green Party referred to the reliktbock as far as Torp's meadows, but you may continue to believe it. We have also examined all the other claims that you made in the report. Not many of them are true in reality.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-368	Mr President, I would like to Let me remind you that the Alliance presented 30 different housing proposals during its time in power. You've had time for seven so far. To be perfectly honest, you have a lot to do. What is the political will of the Green Party, as Emma Hult points out? With the Green Party, I think you always get a small package. The new amortisation requirement, which the government will probably push through, means a salary quota ceiling of four and a half times the salary. Minister for Housing Peter Eriksson says that this is a bad idea and that it should not be implemented. He believes that the risk is that the housing market will slow down and that young people will not be able to enter the housing market. At the same time, Minister for Financial Markets Per Bolund says that this is a good idea and that it is only 15 percent of all the new ones who are going to take out loans that will not be able to do so. In his world, it is only 15 per cent of Swedes who will not be able to take out loans, and this is a great idea. According to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, this proposal is presented in a lack of proposals from the government for a more healthy debt in Sweden. Since Emma Hult used this against the Moderates earlier today, I have a few questions. First of all, I wonder who's wrong. Is it Peter Eriksson or Per Bolund? Which one of them is wrong? One of them is obviously wrong. I would like answers to which environmental party is wrong. Both opinions are with you right now. Secondly, I wonder what Emma Hult says to the 15% of Swedes who will not be able to take out loans because the government does not dare to touch on the interest deduction. What is her message to them? Where are they going? What are they gonna do?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-374	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with the last question. To this 15%, I say that the Green Party can probably be voted on in the next election, because we are the party that has pushed the longest for a change in the interest rate deduction. That's the answer to the question. Perhaps our two parties should sit together in the government during the next parliamentary term, because we would then have the majority for such a change. It is not up to me to decide which environmental party is right and who is wrong. As far as I know, the government has not made a decision on the amortisation requirement either. I think I'll have to wait to answer the question. Robert Hannah began by explaining how many propositions the Alliance presented for eight years. We are in on our third, and we have then put forward more proposals than you did during your first three years, when you had your own majority in the Swedish Parliament.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-378	Mr President, I would like to What is the political will of the Green Party? Even Emma Hult doesn't know for herself whether they think it should be an amortisation requirement or not. It is very clear that the Green Party has no influence or power whatsoever and that a vote on the Green Party means nothing but support for the Social Democrats, at least in terms of housing policy. You in the Green Party do not get through your proposal on the interest rebate, and you do not know how you feel about the amortisation requirement. Clearly, there is no logic in your policy. Peter Eriksson is against the new amortisation requirement. He realizes, like the Liberals, that there would be a brake pad on the housing market. And like the Liberals, he realizes that it is really the interest deduction that needs to be reduced so that the entire Swedish housing market takes responsibility. For his part, Minister of Financial Markets Per Bolund does not seem to want to reduce the interest rebate, as he has not commented on it. On the other hand, he wants a new amortisation requirement that will make t– as he himself says – 15 per cent of Swedes cannot take a mortgage. This applies in addition to those who are not already allowed to take out loans, which is usually young. What is Emma Hult's message to a dentist who has just graduated from Karolinska and who is not allowed to take mortgages, even though this right now has the lowest salary he or she will ever have? What is Emma Hult's message to the newly hatched family with a young child who has nowhere to go? We have a rental market that requires 15 years of waiting time to get a lease. What's the message? Is it: No, you can't enter the rental market because there is 15 years waiting time? As far as the rental market is concerned, you do not want to change at all so that it can work better. You are also sending the message that these people should not be allowed to take mortgages to get a place to live. If you look at the policies you pursue and summarize everything, the result will be homelessness. You don't want to change the rental market, and you don't want them taking mortgages so they can get a place to live. That leaves the secondary market, and you seem to think that there is too much black trade there. It doesn't make any sense. What is your answer to these people?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-384	Mr President, I would like to If we expand the high-speed train in Sweden, which the Liberals are opposed to as far as I know and they have not changed their opinion, you do not need to live in Stockholm to be able to work in Stockholm. There's one thing. Another thing is that we in Sweden are currently building rental apartments with reasonable rents. The more rental apartments are built in Sweden, the more people will get a dwelling. We will get market mobility going. I will not comment on a decision that has not been taken by the government. Robert Hannah opposes as if it were already in a certain way. The government has not yet taken a decision on the amortisation requirement. We can have that discussion when we're there. Today we are here to debate the budget proposal, not a decision that has not yet been taken. As far as I know, the amortisation requirement in the budget proposal that we have tabled is not affected. Since I did not get the question that Johan Löfstrand had to answer, I take the opportunity to tell you a little about what we are actually doing to build more in Sweden. For example, at the moment we have someone negotiating that it should be built more on state land. We also have a negotiator who will enable government interests to be used for more construction. For example, part of Bällstastan's radar equipment is moved so that we can create 30 000 new homes in Stockholm. Why didn't you do this in your time? This decision was not very difficult. I think we need to have a debate on what we want to do and not talk about decisions that have not yet been taken. I also hope that the Liberals do not talk about the Green Party as a party that creates a forum for talks, but as a party that actually takes responsibility for Sweden's housing policy. Let me praise Robert Hannah for one thing: I have never heard him say a green tax exchange in a debate. That's good to hear.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-392	Mr President, I would like to This debate on housing policy has been clear: we have a united and interactive alliance that wants to build more in Sweden. Against this, there are even parties who believe in Eastern Communism; it has been clear in the debate. Now we are going to debate consumer policy. I can only regret that Mr Per Bolund is not in the debate today, and I note that Emma Hult does not mention in a word what the Green Party wants in the area of consumer policy. Mr President, I would like to We are all consumers – our whole lives. We buy products and services from both private and public suppliers. When it comes to purchases from private companies, we have consumer protection in Sweden, but when we buy services or products from the public, we have an almost non-existent level of consumer protection. It is a little strange, given that it is the policy that governs preschool, school and care for the elderly that if we get misplaced services there, we have no consumer protection at all. As far as consumers are concerned, we believe moderates in enlightened consumers. You should have as much information as possible so that you can make wise decisions. Here, my friends from the Alliance have told me about the consumer policy objectives that we want to restore. It is good that the government has now taken the initiative to try to solve the problem of quick loans. Here we have Moderates to analyse the proposal that the government will possibly present to the Riksdag. I can only regret that it has taken so long. We Moderates and the entire Alliance have pressed for the issue to be resolved, but only last week there was a move by the government. There are other issues that do not work for the government at all. I am thinking of all those who have discovered that there is no consumer protection in beauty treatments. Here, the then alliance government set up an investigation already in spring 2014 which was delivered in autumn 2015. This is because there had been a lot of malpractices. Now the government has set up a new investigation, which should appropriately be submitted after the elections. This means that legislation can be put in place in 2019 at the earliest. In the meantime, people who are mistreated run the risk of being virtually unprotected if something goes wrong. We can read article after article in our local newspapers about mainly young girls who discovered that effective consumer protection is lacking when something goes wrong. Today you must report a mistreatment to the General Complaints Board, but Arn itself says that these are questions that you neither want nor can work with. It is not satisfactory with the government's failure to act in this area. Mr President, I would like to I think we will also have to look at car leasing after the 2018 elections. A large proportion of the cars sold in Sweden today are sold via leasing. However, neither the Consumer Sales Law, the Consumer Services Act or the Consumer Credit Act apply to leasing, but it is the written agreement that applies. Many consumers have turned to the Swedish Consumer Agency when they have discovered that the conditions are unclear. For example, for three years a family situation can change, and if you do not leave the agreement, it can have extensive private economic consequences. Given that there are many individuals who use private leasing – 28% of all car sales in September this year were made via private leasing – it is important for us in politics to look at whether we can bring private leasing into any of the existing laws. However, given how tough it has been for the government to deal with the issue of failed beauty operations, I have no hope that the government will address the issue of private leasing of cars, but it must be a matter for the next government to resolve after the elections. We as consumers have to make active and conscious choices, and to do so requires a lot of information. Municipal consumer guides are important for consumers who need support and advice before, for example, hiring a craftsman. I would like to send a clear signal and call to our municipalities to prioritise and safeguard this activity even in budgetary times. In terms of improved debt restructuring, we Moderates believe that the regulatory framework needs to be improved. It is urgent to get the indebted back into society quickly. Therefore, it is more a priority to have a process as fast as possible than, for example, to spread free months. We believe that the payment period is important. Over-indebtedness can cause debtors to become even more passive and, for example, do not dare to change their work situation, increase their income or change their residence. The rehabilitation purpose of the debt restructuring act benefits from a reduction to three years. We Moderates have proposed a large number of measures to improve debt restructuring in Sweden: The municipal budget and debt counselling should be given a clearer mandate so that it can get into the process earlier and thus help individuals get out of over-indebtedness early. By minimising the damage that over-indebtedness can cause to the individual, negative consequences for the person and welfare can be reduced. 中 A maximum queue period should be introduced to be assisted by the municipal budget and debt counselling. The possibilities for regular creditors on the market to offer remediation loans should be explored. It should be considered whether debtors with debts of this kind should pay off first on the capital debt and then on interest costs. Budget and debt counselling is statutory and all municipalities are obliged to provide advice and instructions on budget and debt issues to debtors. Various studies and reports show that budget and debt counselling differ significantly across the country and that some municipalities even lack budget and debt counselling. Queues for advice vary significantly between municipalities, as does the amount of support. We need to change that, Mr President. We need equal budget and debt advice throughout Sweden. With the adoption by Parliament of a new law on debt restructuring, there has been a clarification of the obligation that municipalities have with regard to budget and debt counselling, which is certainly a good thing. However, we believe that there is still a risk that the supervision of budget and debt counselling will be neglected and not coordinated when managed by IVO. The Swedish Consumer Agency currently has the knowledge and also the task of supporting budget and debt counselling. In our opinion, it would be better and more effective if the Consumer Authority were also to have supervisory responsibility.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-409	Mr President, I would like to I, too, intend to talk about the area of consumer policy. New in this debate compared to last year's debate is that the Swedish Democrats have proposed their own consumer policy objective. Previously, we had two goals, one from the Alliance and one from the government, from which we could choose. However, we did not think that any of those objectives reflected our view of consumer policy in a good way. Nothing is so good that it cannot get better, but we have tried to sum up our basic ideas and ambitions in one goal. We in the Swedish Democrats have a steward's idea as a basis for our decisions. We will manage our country and our environment in a well-thought-out way so that our children and grandchildren too will eventually have the opportunity to pass the inheritance on to their next. We therefore believe that it is important that consumption is sustainable from an economic, social and environmental perspective. Mr President, I would like to For us Swedish democrats, it is also important that the consumer has sufficient opportunity and information to make active choices. This is important for a consumer to be able to opt out of a worse product or service but also for the consumer to be able to choose what he supports through his consumption. Origin labelling and information on the content of products are important tools for the consumer when purchasing products. We are therefore opposed to the deterioration of origin labelling or the use of over-horizontal labelling, as this may make it more difficult for the consumer to make active choices. Unfortunately, we can see that the EU is working in many ways in the opposite direction. The country of origin label is removed in order to write a copy of it in the EU. What does it say about the product? It is a huge difference if a product is made in Spain, Greece or Finland. Nevertheless, the label is identical. If, for example, you do not want to support Spain because you think that Spain's action in relation to Catalonia's struggle for freedom is reprehensible, you may want to opt out of Spanish goods. But you can't do that if it just says, "Manufactured in the EU." Then you do not know if what you choose is made in Spain or in any other country. Our view is that a consumer policy objective should include both the possibility of making active choices and sustainability aspects. The Swedish Democrats therefore propose the introduction of a new consumer policy target for Category 18 with the following wording: This is the wording that we feel best is speaking so far about how we view consumer policy. Finally, I thought I'd take our pleas. Of course, we support all our reservations, but like Roger Hedlund, I would like to support only reservations 1 and 8.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-417	Mr President, I would like to I am a new Member of Parliament and of the Civil Committee, and it is very exciting to speak here for the first time. I believe that the security of citizens, both in practice and as a feeling, is an important part of the whole of welfare. Security is about feeling hopeful about the future and believing that you have the conditions to realize yourself in life, no matter how the status of society is. It is about the awareness that there is support from society if you get hurt and end up in a difficult situation like sick or unemployed. Security is also about feeling safe when shopping, when buying goods and services. That is why it is important to have a good consumer policy for all citizens, for well-being. It is particularly important in today's society, characterised by globalisation and digitalisation. It is a development that is good and positive in many ways based on different aspects, but at the same time the entire chain – production and service, marketing and advertising, transport and delivery, sales and shopping – becomes more and more complex. It is becoming increasingly difficult for the consumer to keep track of goods and services based on price, health, safety and an environmental perspective. It will also be more difficult for authorities and civil organisations to control, monitor the chain and have transparency and remedy if necessary. Nor should we forget that the current phase of globalisation has created a market climate characterised by very fierce competition, leading to aggressive advertising, cheating, greed and even war in some parts of the world. The global picture requires new solutions to create a functioning, reliable, fair and environmentally friendly market and consumption. The Left Party is behind the government's consumer policy objectives. We support the report as a whole, but at the same time we see that there are more concrete measures that need to be taken in the area of consumers in order to better match today's challenges in the future. In the Left Party's consumer policy motion, we propose, among other things: 中 to investigate the possibility of imposing obligations on municipalities to provide consumer guidance 中 to take measures to ensure that the Swedish Consumer Agency's work in training and training consumer advisors increases 中 to legislate on the prohibition of sex-discriminatory advertising and to review laws and guidelines relating to advertising aimed at children To create a non-toxic everyday life, especially for children, and to ban harmful chemicals, metals and fragrances in products 中 to prohibit SMS loans and other short-term loans . to introduce, as soon as possible, written contracts in connection with telephone sales. I would also like to point out a dangerous development in the gaming industry, which I believe is a threat to public health. According to the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's June 2017 report there are gambling problems in all population groups and in all forms of gaming, but it is more common among men and young people. It is estimated that about 2 percent of the population aged 18 to 84 have problems with their gambling, i.e. about 134 000 people. For 31 000 of these, gambling problems are more serious. Another 4% of the adult population is at risk of developing gambling problems. The aggressive advertising of gaming companies in the media is exacerbating the situation. It affects people, not least young people, and usually leads to personal tragedies. You can see on the private TV that almost one in three commercials is casino and gambling advertising. In addition, it is very easy on the internet. I believe that measures should be taken to severely restrict and regulate gambling advertising. I and my colleague Lotta have been in Borås last week, where we visited and studied the municipality's business on consumer issues. The work of the municipality is fascinating. The municipality has a special board, the Environmental and Consumer Board, with skilled staff working daily. They inform, support and resolve disputes between consumers and sellers. They also support citizens through budget and debt counselling. They cooperate with civil consumer organisations. Winners, both economically and socially, are the municipality, the whole community and the individual. All municipalities should follow the example of Borås. I support the committee's proposal.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-432	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the CU1 report. The objective of consumer policy is well-functioning consumer markets and environmentally, socially and economically sustainable consumption. The goal was decided by the Riksdag on a proposal in the budget proposal for 2016. Onsument policy concerns a wide range of areas and consumer protection legislation and enforcement, out-of-court dispute resolution and independent consumer information and guidance which are essentially cross-market. The activities therefore concern a large number of other areas. Authorities that have assignments in consumer policy and whose activities are dealt with in this section are the Swedish Consumer Agency, including the Consumer Ombudsman, the National Board of Complaints, the Swedish Real Estate Authority and the Swedish Travel Guarantee Board. The state-owned company Eco-label Sweden also has tasks in consumer policy. Mr President, I would like to The objective of consumer policy is well-functioning consumer markets and environmentally, socially and economically sustainable consumption. This requires effective legislation that protects consumers, as well as consumer support that is easily accessible and reliable. High levels of consumer protection are also important outside Sweden's borders, for example when travelling and buying online. What we also know is that consumer markets are undergoing rapid transformation, which offers new opportunities for consumers. At the same time as this happens, it changes the circumstances of consumers. Increasingly complex markets are at risk of further increasing consumers' information disadvantage, and sometimes business practices are intrusive, which may harm not least more vulnerable groups of consumers. By countering unhealthy business practices and strengthening consumers through legal rights and relevant consumer support, consumer policy can contribute to the proper functioning of consumer markets. Furthermore, more sustainable consumption should be promoted. As the government argues, a broader approach to consumer policy is therefore needed. More knowledge about sustainable consumption is needed. Therefore, the Swedish Consumer Agency has been tasked with setting up and providing a forum for societal stakeholders working on issues related to environmentally sustainable consumption. The purpose of this Forum is to stimulate exchanges of knowledge and cooperation between authorities, municipalities, researchers and representatives of industry and civil society organisations. This contributes to the adoption of measures that lead to innovation and to improved conditions for environmentally sustainable consumption. The agency has started work to create a structure for the forum and to identify in which areas the forum is deemed to bring the most added value. In accordance with a special government mandate, the Swedish Consumer Agency has also begun work to stimulate environmentally smart consumption patterns. This mandate includes, among other things, making relevant information about the environmental impact of private consumption easily accessible and known to consumers based on behavioural science considerations. The mission also includes facilitating school education on the impact of consumption. In 2016, 20 civil society organisations were supported. It was slightly more than the previous year, when there were 18 organisations. Much of these funds were also used this year to provide information on environmentally sustainable consumption and fair trade. But they were also used for food, financial services and accessibility for people with disabilities. Finally, Mr President, the Government considers that the efforts made in consumer policy have helped to ensure the smooth functioning of consumer markets and to facilitate more environmentally, socially and economically sustainable consumption, in line with the policy objective.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-442	Mr President, I would like to I was going to ask Eva Sonidsson to develop this with beauty surgery a little bit. It is a major problem in Sweden today. It is a problem that has been highlighted by a great many. Should Eva google on it, she would see that in principle every day there are articles about people around Sweden that have been squeezed. As I said in my speech, the Alliance set up an investigation in 2014. Strong proposals came in the autumn of 2015. Then nothing happened, nothing, nothing and nothing. Now the government has said that it will set up an investigation that will deliver some kind of proposal after the 2018 election. Although the next government will be fast, at best legislation will be in place perhaps in the autumn of 2019. What do Eva Sonidsson and the Social Democrats say to everyone who now discovers that there is no consumer protection in this area? If you have a mistreatment, you should report it to the General Complaints Board with the current regulations. At best, you can get the money back, but there's no compensation. In addition, public health services have now said that they do not even want to help correct any mistreatments. In the autumn 2015 survey, a number of strong proposals were put forward. Although not all the proposals were accepted, perhaps something should have been done in this area. What do you say to those who have suffered from improper beauty treatments and who are not helped and supported by society?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-446	Mr President, I would like to Now I'm going to quote a commercial that's been on TV. Now we are here to discuss consumer policy objectives. I hope we can agree on that. I know very well that this beauty surgery is an incredibly big problem. And that's a difficult problem. The investigation that was carried out revealed that there were some things that you actually had to get to the bottom of. I don't think you can easily come up with a quick fix. This is a major problem. It has far-reaching consequences. I think that this is something that we really need to look at in depth in order for it to be good for the consumer. There's a lot going on. Hopefully, the unfortunate cases that have been out in the country and in the rest of Europe deter some from continuing operations that are not serious. But I agree that this is a major problem.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-449	Mr President, I would like to Yes, if Eva Sonidsson today votes in favour of the Alliance's consumer policy objectives, where we stress the importance of informed consumers, fewer will of course be affected. That would be welcome. I understand that Eva Sonidsson does not want to debate or discuss the government's failure in this area. I have full respect for that. I can only regret that there are people who get caught and that a lot of people get hurt. Some are actually injured for life, and they are not helped. This is something that the next government must, of course, take full advantage of after the elections.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-451	Mr President, I would like to Now we've been in government for over three years. The Alliance was in government for eight years. I would have thought it would have been tasteful if the Alliance had come up with a whole new goal instead of just dusting off the old case and coming up with the same thing again. In fact, a great deal has happened in these three years. There was also much going on during your time in government. Just coming back with the same old goal seems a little rusty to me. I quote the commercial once again. This is our goal. It is the aim of the Social Democraticly led government that we are going to discuss. I hope we can agree on that.
i-8DJ6AHdDRaajyGUbX1fQ2m	Mr President, I would like to The House will now consider KU's report in connection with the Government's budget bill, category 1 Kingdom Board, the Parliamentary Administration's annual report for the financial year 2016 and about 30 motion requests that have been raised during the general exercise period. For the expenditure area, the Government, the Riksdag Board and the Parliamentary Ombudsmen propose appropriations in this area. The Government and the Riksdag Board also submit proposals for appropriations. The Parliamentary Ombudsmen propose that the Riksdag decide that the Parliamentary Ombudsmen for 2018 should be allowed to fund fixed assets used in the agency's operations. The Riksdag Board also proposes that the Riksdag approve an investment plan. The Government also proposes that the Riksdag approve a change in the objective of democracy policy. On most of these issues, the committee agrees. However, as the report shows, several parties have not taken part in the decision on funding but have given specific opinions. That also applies to us Moderates. We will therefore refrain from taking part in the decision on appropriations, but we would nevertheless like to present in this House some of the issues in which we wanted a different allocation of appropriations. Mr President, I would like to Protecting free and open society and democracy is essential. This includes many different tasks, but we Moderates believe that the need to protect democracy against violent extremism through preventive work has increased and must be given increased resources. Therefore, the Moderates want to invest SEK 30 million annually for this purpose. Since we have not otherwise prioritised the same efforts as the government in detail, the difference in the allocation will be 18 million, for those who wonder. In Sweden, the number of violent extremists is no longer counted in the hundreds, but in the thousands. This is a terrible development. Some are people who have returned from war and terror abroad. Those who commit and commit crimes must, of course, face the full power of the judiciary, but prevention must also be improved. For example, there is a need for structured drop-outs for those who want to leave extremist groups. I am aware that there are a number of such activities around the country, but many small municipalities cannot do this. A coherent effort is needed in this area. The majority of Parliament has also made an announcement to the government in the past. For this purpose, resources are needed, which we are allocating. The knowledge of extremism and radicalisation is something else that needs to be improved. Municipal activities such as school and social services meet people directly and can at an early stage, if you have knowledge, face the problems and maybe do something about them. We also see a need for general knowledge and research about the mechanisms of self-radicalisation and violent extremism. In any case, our initiative allows for a special investment in education for school staff and some other things that we know are particularly important. Our draft budgets for other areas of expenditure contain more money precisely for the purpose of combating and countering the problems of violent extremism. The allocation 6:1 General elections and democracy also includes measures to strengthen respect for human rights in Sweden. I would like to say that it is important that this appropriation is used to combat inequalities, hede rsoppression, homophobia and racism – problems that we face from and to in our society. Mr President, I would like to We recently had a seminar here in the Riksdag in connection with the SNS democracy report, where a number of researchers took the temper of our democracy. An important point made in that report is that the political power in Sweden has been shifted from the Riksdag to the Government over the past 30 to 40 years. They believe that much suggests that it has therefore become more difficult to maintain the combination of competition and struggle for government power and compromise-oriented decision-making in the Riksdag, which has previously characterized Swedish politics. One explanation for this is that the Ministry's investigative resources and the number of political services in the Government Office have increased significantly. Since the first half of the 1980s, the number of employees in the Government Office has increased by 50 per cent. This means that anyone who currently controls the government has much more investigative resources than before, while the parliament loses power in relation to this. One thing that we Moderates want and can do is, of course, to strengthen Parliament's investigative capacity. The Moderates want to strengthen the parliamentary investigation service by increasing the parliamentary administrative grant by SEK 5 million. This is very important given that the government no longer wants to account for the effect of the policies conducted in the way the Alliance did on employment effects and other things, although this is in the public interest and in the interests of Parliament. Then it will be a task for the Riksdag. There is much to speak in favour of the reinforcement that I mentioned. We reject the Government's proposal for more money to the Government Office – you go in the opposite direction – and you make a saving. I think that is absolutely necessary. On the other hand, we would like to increase the grant to the Chancellor of Justice, who is the representative of the State in various legal disputes. These disputes can sometimes involve very large amounts of money, and there may be strong financial interests on the part of the counterparty. Then we think it is important that the Chancellor of Justice has enough power to work on it. The Swedish Data Protection Authority also needs to be strengthened. The rapid development of digital products, services and means of communication presents both opportunities and challenges. In the Riksdag, we have recently decided on a more modern legislation, but when it comes to developments in the field of IT, the Swedish Data Protection Authority also has an important role and needs more money, not least in view of the new EU Data Protection Regulation, which will enter into force next year. In conclusion, the moderate option for the funding area is primarily that we want to nurture and protect democracy, put more effort into some current threats to our free and open society and highlight the importance of a better balance between two central centres of power: government and parliament.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-465	Mr President, I would like to I should like to begin by calling for our Amendment No 4 to be approved under paragraph 7 and to inform the House that the Swedish Democrats will not participate in the grant decision, but instead refer to our specific opinion. In 1969, only 8 million people lived here in Sweden. By 2004, the figure had risen to 9 million. This year we exceeded 10 million. The time it takes to increase the population has thus decreased quite considerably. With the current population increase of over 100,000 new people every year, Sweden is expected to reach a population of 11 million people by 2026. What previously took 35 years, therefore, now takes only 9 years. This increase is almost exclusively due to continued high levels of immigration. Of course, there are differences of opinion about the benefits of this. One of these is the one that fits within the approved opinion corridor, with the talk of open hearts, open borders and exciting challenges. All of this is contained and packaged in a red-green blue paper of solidarity and humanity, where humanity and solidarity seem to be measured only in how many immigrants we can receive here in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to This has got to stop. It is high time to fill these words with what they really mean: a functioning society where care, school, care, police and defence are prioritised and where labour law is protected and not destroyed by so-called simple jobs and subsidised employment. For the Swedish Democrats, politics is about prioritising. Let me therefore quote a few lines from the government's own authority, the Institute of Economic Development, from a report of 10 October this year: Therefore, a tightening of fiscal policies will be required as early as 2019 to achieve the surplus target. If the public welfare policy is also to be maintained at the 2018 level, it also requires budget reinforcements of approximately SEK 30 billion. ..................................................... So this concern, Mr President, is not only mine, but it is shared by the government's own authorities. For this reason, I would like to stress with determination how important it is that, in times of prosperity, we are now being moderated by our common means. A policy of overwhelming may help the government in the next elections, but when the election night is over and reality is crawling on, more people will come with me to ask themselves why they did not choose to take responsibility. In political languages, most parties talk about the challenge: the challenge of care, the challenge of the police, the challenge of alienation and so on. For ordinary people, the concept of challenging means a difficult, necessary and exciting task that is expected to be accomplished. For example, it can be a big challenge for many to make the puzzle of life go together or perhaps climb a mountain. But quite honestly, Mr President– I am, unfortunately, quite convinced that we have more opportunity to see our Prime Minister set foot on Kebnekaise than to see him solve the pile of all the problems and challenges of Sweden. Mr President, I would like to It is high time to take responsibility. In the parts of the budget relating to category 1 Kingdom government, we choose to do just that. We want to take responsibility. The government spends a total of 14 1⁄2 billion in this area of expenditure in its budget. The Swedish Democrats' funding is 635 million lower than the government's, mainly through reductions at the Government Office. In view of past economic uncertainty, the government should set a good example and thus be able to manage with less resources. This is particularly true given that for a long time the Government Office has received increased funding, while at the same time it has dealt with fewer and fewer cases. Let's look back in time. With the help of the KU's review, we have noted that efficiency has been much higher than it is today, to say the least. In fact, most of the cases currently dealt with at the Government Office are employment cases. Therefore, there is also a great deal of scope for improvement and efficiency improvements. The funding for ourselves, for us political parties, is also high. Here, too, the Swedish Democrats choose to make certain reductions. Let me mention a few other savings. The Swedish democrats propose a halving of the pre-support, as well as on the distribution support. In this context, it is important to point out that the Swedish Democrats elsewhere provide relief for companies, which of course also include the media, such as reduced sickness pay and reduced social security contributions. When it comes to investments, we Swedish democrats want to raise funds in a number of areas in the area of expenditure. In our budget, Sametinget receives an increased funding of SEK 5 million to be able to work with issues of self-determination and participation. With regard to the parliamentary authorities, the JO receives an extra SEK 25 million. The Authority has assessed that the quality of the handling of the case is certainly the same as before, but at the same time it notes that the balance of the case has increased. The activities of the JO provide an additional safety net for many of the individuals at the bottom of society. It is therefore crucial for us that this activity actually works. The initiative also implies a desire for more own inspections to be carried out by the Authority. The purpose of this is that we see a risk that the most vulnerable individuals can otherwise easily fall between the chairs because they themselves do not have the same energy to report. Own inspections are therefore a good tool for improving the protection of that particular group. The Swedish Democrats also want to strengthen the county boards. These are the government's representatives in the counties and are responsible for ensuring that the objectives set by the Riksdag and the Government can also be achieved. Animal welfare and rural areas are examples of tasks that lie on county boards. For us Swedish democrats, it is therefore remarkable that the Center Party reduces the funding for the county boards by over SEK 50 million. In particular, I wonder why they wish to remove the reinforcement of resources for information activities on payment services in rural areas. This should rather be something that contributes to rural development and therefore an issue that the Center Party should be more interested in. For the Swedish Democrats, these issues are important. In our budget, we increase the funding for the county administrative boards by more than SEK 78 million. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to mention a few words about the Swedish Data Protection Authority's work on protecting personal privacy. Since this authority was founded in the 1970s, the amount of data in society has increased beyond what most likely could predict. The government certainly provides an increase in funding, which is justified, among other things, by the work on the EU's new Data Protection Regulation. However, it is clear that the Authority needs further reinforcement and recruitment. In addition, we believe that the work on IT security and privacy must be given higher priority, and for this reason the Swedish Democrats are strengthening the Swedish Data Protection Authority with an additional SEK 25 million in addition to the Government's proposal. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to briefly comment on our reservation concerning Mr Siep's mission. Sieps is an agency that has been in existence since 2002, and it has the task of highlighting current European policy issues. The work must be carried out independently and comprehensively. In the long run, we want to change the agency's mission so that it becomes more of a revising body in terms of development and administration within the EU and can also highlight the consequences that this entails for Sweden. For example, it is high time to account for how much power Sweden actually gives through its membership of the EU, and we want to make this visible by giving the agency the task of drawing up an EU financial statement annually.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-480	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party wants to be more sparing than the government with state funds in next year's budget because Sweden is in the middle of a boom. We do not want an overheating of the economy that raises prices. Instead, we want there to be resources with the state when the next recession occurs. At that time, the state must maintain the purchasing power of residents, households, by using surpluses that have been saved during the boom. The Center Party therefore saves 10 billion more than the government per year in 2018– 2020. The Center Party prioritises in the budget work to break the split of Sweden. Reforms are needed to enable people who are out of work, not least new arrivals, to move from contributions to work. It must be possible to enter the labour market at a slightly lower salary and learn at work. The Center Party wants to adapt taxes and regulations to the conditions for small and growing companies – those that account for most of today's job growth in the country. The Center Party wants to reform the tax system with higher taxes on environmentally harmful emissions and lower taxes on labour and entrepreneurship. We have room in our budget for a broad tax cut to all those who work and lower taxes for pensioners, especially those with the lowest income. With regard to the appropriations in the budget area of the KU, the Kingdom government, we do not want to account for the large increase in the budget allocated to the Government Offices in recent years. We believe that the previous large increases in funding for migration costs, among other things, can now be withdrawn. The government is proposing an appropriation of SEK 50 million for election participation in the run-up to next year's elections. We do not think that is very meaningful. Similar efforts have been made in previous elections, but unfortunately we have seen very little impact on the type of voting turnout proposed by the government. Otherwise, the Center Party also takes away some funding for the county boards, on activities that we believe have done little good. We call it inefficient bureaucracy. The Government extends the grant to the Swedish Institute for European Policy Studies and Information by 10 million. We do not support this appropriation either. The Government's proposed increase in funding for the Sameting Party has endorsed the Center Party. The savings made by the Center Party within the budget, including for the Kingdom government, mainly the Government Office, we use to save for the coming years and reduce taxes mainly for the country's pensioners and partly also for those who work. Mr President, I would like to The Centre Party does not take part in the decision on the allocation of budget appropriations because Parliament has already decided on a financial framework that is different from what we want. The views of the Centre Party on the allocation of appropriations are set out in a separate opinion on the budget issue.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-490	Mr President, I would like to The living conditions are very different in our country. There are single parents who struggle to make ends meet and the money to last the month. Others may wonder if they will buy a new hunt again this year, or a Porsche or two. Some argue that the tax on investment savings accounts should be increased by 37.50 per year for those with 50 000, while long-term sickness today pays the highest tax on equal income. We simply see very different problems in society. We live in a country where some parts have been betrayed by politics. Workplaces, districts and some suburbs have fallen behind, while the already wealthy in other suburbs, such as Djursholm, Nacka and Täby, have been supported by policies with extensive tax cuts and the introduction of RUT and ROT subsidies. When the Left Party has negotiated the budget, we have allowed equality to go like a red thread through what we have done. For those parts of the country that have fallen behind, where the level of service is lagging behind, unemployment is high and the level of education is low, we are making a long-term effort. Of course, how the money is to be spent must be determined locally. For people with long-term reduced working capacity, we have again achieved an increase in the guarantee and the housing allowance. In addition, we have achieved a tax reduction for that group. For those with guarantees, this can mean SEK 840 a month, which is a lot of money for those who have little. The health insurance is strengthened by raising the ceiling, and the dental allowance doubles so that more people can afford to go to the dentist. The study grant is increased, and it is important for more young people to be able to move on to higher studies. Debting and taking out student loans is a big step for many, especially in families where no one has done so before. It is therefore important that it is precisely the grant part of the study funds that is raised by SEK 300 per month. We are also investing in libraries. Access will increase, libraries will increase and it will be easier to access the wealth of libraries. Knowledge and education are about power and a society for all, not just for a few. The entire health care system needs more resources. Those who work in health care need to have reasonable working conditions and influence over their work. Therefore, an investment of SEK 2 billion per year is made for those who work in healthcare, in addition to the special efforts made on maternity care, on primary care to meet mental health problems and on children -, youth and adult psychiatry. Of course, there are areas where we have not been successful in our negotiations with the government. This applies not least to taxes, which do not have the distribution profile that we want. Sweden is an unequal country, and here the gaps have increased fastest in recent decades. By 2015, the maintenance aid had not been increased by more than SEK 100 since 1994. Costs had risen considerably more, and the proportion of poor children of single parents increased. Now the maintenance aid is being increased for the third time this term of office. Now, free public transport is also possible on summer holidays for young people, and free activities will be available on all school holidays. All six-year-olds will have the opportunity to attend a free swimming school with their preschool class. There are many important changes in the budget as a whole that have been made through the negotiations with the Left Party. So to the specific part dealing with category 1 Kingdom rule. I will comment on a few points. In recent years, work on the rights of the Sami people has progressed. The agreement on the Nordic Sami Convention and participation in international fora are important parts of this work. Sameting is crucial for strengthening the Sami right to self-determination and for promoting the opportunities of the Sami people to maintain and develop their cultural and community life. The view of the Left Party is that the Sameting should be divided so that the authority is separate and the thing is separate. But we are happy that there is an effort on the Samting in view of the work that has to be done there. This is necessary, among other things, in order to establish the new consultation system that is being developed. Since there are elections next year, it is reasonable for more money to be spent in the area of democracy and human rights. Allow me, however, to comment on the increase in appropriations for security-enhancing measures. The effort is good, but it is bad that it should be needed. The increasing hatred, threats and violence of religious communities and people involved in civil society, in various parties and in work on human rights is appalling. Views of each other and everyone's right to express their views must be pursued throughout society. Means of security-enhancing measures are a small part of this work. Of course, I have to talk about the monkey nag. As you know, the Left Party wants a different form of government to be introduced. We also have comments on how the monkeynaget is used while waiting for the republic. However, we cannot change the size of the monkey naget from one year to another. It needs to be seen in a wider context. We want the design of the apenaget to be investigated with a view to reducing it, and we want to see how a transition to a republic can take place in this context. The Republican Association has conducted a small inquiry into how the Constitution could be changed, and this investigation could very well be included in a larger review of government. We have reason to discuss this issue further in this House in connection with the treatment of several motions that were raised during the autumn's general exercise period. In the meantime, I would like to support reservation No 1.
i-2F23T3Q7suUUicPLtDt6LU	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are discussing the Government's budget proposal for 2018 in the parts concerning the Kingdom Board, the Parliamentary Administration's annual report and motion requests that have been raised during the general exercise period. The Parliament has approved five objectives in the field of expenditure. These concern Sami policy, democracy policy, human rights, national minorities and the media. If we are to be honest, these are not the issues for which the voters will rush to the ballot boxes. At the same time, we who sit in this Chamber and are passionate about these issues know that on the day we stop guarding these issues, we no longer have any ballot boxes to rush to. Although the government has put forward some good proposals, the Liberals see the budget as a whole. We cannot pick the raisins out of the cake, but everything must be treated as the same cake – also in order to safeguard the stability of the kingdom. As in the past this parliamentary term, the Liberals have not participated in the grant decision because we simply think we have a better proposal for Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Employment is growing and the economy is booming. But instead of using the boom to build a buffer for worse times, the government chooses to burn the economy and present even more unfunded premium increases. The gaps in society are growing, just as Mia Sydow Mölleby said. Assistance is being withdrawn for those who most need the support and protection of society. Sickness benefits are withdrawn, and people are literally being set on a bare hill. Medical care is on its knees – all that the government in the election movement said it wanted to fight. Liberals are presenting a budget of reforms for the future. We invest in better knowledge at school and better opportunities for companies to hire so that even those with shorter education or those who have come here recently have a chance to work. We invest in a functioning police force throughout the country and a defence with the capacity to defend Sweden. In addition, we present an integration and migration policy based on equal shares of humanism and realism, which once again focuses on jobs and schools and which counteracts parallel societies and honour violence. The Parliament has rejected the Liberals' proposal, and so Sweden is taking a different path from the one we want to see. Nevertheless, let me present some of our proposals in this area of expenditure which we believe would lead Sweden on a better path. Liberals focus on freedom for both the individual and the nation. Therefore, state subsidies for preventive activities in civil society and municipalities against violent extremism should be increased. Violence-promoting extremism is one of the greatest threats of our time, and municipalities and civil society have a major role to play in that struggle. In addition to an increase of SEK 5 million, a transfer of resources from the University of Gothenburg should also take place to the local level. The grant Measures for national minorities should also be increased by SEK 5 million more than the Government's proposal. We hear frightening reports that schoolchildren are encouraged to no longer speak their national minority languages in the schoolyard. This is a clear sign that we need to work more on this issue and that more municipalities will be able to become part of the administrative areas of Meänkieli, Sami and Finnish. The allocation for actions for the national minority Roma should also be increased. The great work on Roma inclusion that Erik Ullenhag started under the alliance government needs to continue. Long-term work on Roma inclusion is needed here, which must be given sufficient resources if we are ever to tackle the discrimination suffered and subjected to Roma. Mr President, I would like to Finally, the budget for general elections and democracy should be increased by SEK 10 million more than the government's proposal. I note that the government in the bill does not report any measures in response to the Riksdag's announcement of measures to increase voting turnout among foreign Swedes. In order to finance a special effort to increase voting turnout among foreign Swedes, the grant should be added another SEK 5 million.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-521	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the government's budget and the expenditure associated with it. It may seem that this is not a big deal, but it is important. The KU does many important things. The review of the government is the most important, but we also manage the budget for Parliament, government, embassies in the world and much more. I would like to give a summary of how the Christian Democrats view the overall budget work. The Christian Democrats want to create the conditions for a society with good economic growth, a business environment that stands strong in the increasingly fierce global competition and a well-functioning economic policy that gives us the resources to invest in welfare, such as good health care and a good school. With thought-out reforms for the labour market and fiscal policy, we can improve people's chances of leaving unemployment and exclusion. Economic policy is intended to strengthen families, and civil society is a basis for a community-based society in which people have confidence in each other. At the moment, Sweden's economy looks strong, but at the same time there are significant problems and major challenges that the current government is too passive to face. For example, the labour market divide is large, and despite the boom, more and more people are far removed from the labour market. The housing market is not working well for large groups. There is a lack of security, partly because of a police organisation that is too small and apparently too poorly functioning. Accessibility in health care has deteriorated in recent years and unfortunately continues to weaken. Faced with these challenges, the government has few or perhaps no answers. This passivity needs to be replaced by real structural reforms, and the Christian Democrats' alternatives propose a number of such. Health care needs to be strengthened. The embodiment needs to be reinstated. Primary care needs to be expanded, overcrowding reduced and the number of available care places increased. The Christian Democrats are devoting considerable resources to make these reforms possible. More places in retirement homes need to be added and a retirement home guarantee introduced while improving the economy of the elderly. We want to remove the so-called pensioner tax. Security needs to be increased and shared, and this requires a police and judicial system that works and is more visible and locally anchored. Welfare must be developed through continued freedom of choice, clear quality work and efficient use of resources. The Christian Democrats' policy strengthens welfare while lowering taxes on work and on families with children and the elderly. We stand for a welfare promise worth trusting. Policies must focus on facilitating more jobs and business growth so that more people become part of the necessary working community and so that tax revenues can increase. Sectors where jobs are not carried out due to high taxes and charges must be reformed so that markets can grow. For those outside the labour market, the Christian Democrats believe that efforts must be effective and complete. Now, at the first stage of the budget process, the Riksdag has supported the Government's budget proposal and the expenditure framework and estimates of revenue proposed there. Since Parliament has given budgetary policy a completely different direction than we Christian Democrats stand for, I intend to refrain from taking part in the decision on the allocation of appropriations, and have done so in the work of the KU. The Christian Democrats' draft budget is to be treated as a whole. It is not possible to break parts out of it and treat them separately, but I will at least account for some of the allocation of funds and the proposals put forward by the Christian Democrats in motion 2017/ 18:3095. As regards the appropriation 4:1, the Government Office, etc. The Christian Democrats believe that it should be reduced by 287 500 000 SEK for 2018 compared with the Government's proposal in the bill. Work in the Government Office should be made more efficient. As regards the appropriation 5:1 County Administrative Boards, etc. The Christian Democrats want to increase it by SEK 77 1⁄2 million for 2018 compared to the Government's proposal. Behind these figures is an ambition to increase integration and introduce requirements for applicants to participate in 15 hours of language training and 9 hours of social orientation per week. For this purpose, SEK 200 million should be allocated for 2018. With regard to the grant 6:1 General elections and democracy, the KD believes that it should be 25 150 000 SEK lower for 2018 than the Government's proposal. It is certainly important to allocate more money to ensure that the elections can be conducted reliably and efficiently, but we believe that for this purpose half of what the government is proposing is sufficient. For the grant 6:3 The Swedish Data Protection Authority should be 3 million lower for 2018 than the Government's proposal. The Swedish Data Protection Authority's work in connection with the EU's General Data Protection Regulation can be handled with fewer funds than the Government proposes. Finally, with regard to the grants 1:1 Royal Court and Palace State, 2:1 Members and parties of the Riksdag etc., 2:2 Parliamentary administrative grants and 9:1 Swedish Institute for European Policy Studies and EU information, KD believes that they will be 1 million, 3 million, 4 million and 5 million Swedish kronor lower for 2018 than in the Government proposal in the bill. What's the difference? Well, the difference in relation to the government's proposal is due to a continued adjustment of the price and salary recalculation.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-535	Mr President, I would like to For three years, the Social Democratic-led government has amortised the public debt and put responsible investment in the construction of society over unfair tax cuts and cuts. Deficit has been turned into surplus, the Swedish economy is now in a position of strength and the public debt is in proportion to gross domestic product the lowest since Gunnar Sträng was Minister of Finance. The Swedish state thus has very dry powder for a possible recession, and we are now in a position where we have room to move forward with strong investments that are necessary to strengthen the sustainable construction of society for the future. We know that equality and economic development go hand in hand. Sweden therefore needs a society that is fair, with reforms that reduce the gaps and create more opportunities for everyone to contribute. This is how cohesion and trust are built, not through tax cuts and cuts. Mr President, I would like to Today, the Parliament has to deal with the area of Kingdom government. Under this solemn heading are hidden costs for the head of state, parliament, government, JO, co-ething, county boards, election and party support, national minorities, press support and a lot more. It is about the central parts of the functioning of Swedish democracy. Around many of these things there is quite broad consensus. We'll be grateful for that. The fact that there is a broad consensus around the central parts of the conditions for the country's board is important and gives Swedish democracy and the Swedish state a large measure of stability in a world of concern. There are some areas where there are differences of opinion, and I will comment on some of these. A striking feature of the budget reservations is that the appropriations for the Government Office are lower than those for the Government: 102 million lower for Moderates, 450 million lower for SD, 310 million lower for Centers, 41 million lower for Liberals and 287 million lower for KD. In the same way, several opposition parties are demanding more money for the Riksdag in order to improve the working possibilities of the opposition. I will admit that we Social Democrats did exactly the same populist exercise in 2011 and pulled down the Government Office's funding considerably. We were in opposition, so the government didn't have to have any money, did we? We then reached an agreement with the then governing parties during this parliamentary term that in future it should be the case that those who have government power can, in fact, best assess how much resources the government needs to have for its work. It is very sad that this agreement does not last after the change of government. I think it is short-term action by the current opposition parties, and I think that Sweden would have benefited if our agreement had been reached. In the same way, significant cuts are made to county boards. This is aimed at bureaucracy. And it sounds very good, of course, to cut red tape. However, anyone who has been close to the organization of county boards knows that there are obvious problems for them today to do their job. Reductions in county administrative boards mean less nature conservation and less monitoring of public bodies. This is what cuts on county boards mean. They mean not only cutbacks in bureaucracy, but worse reality for the citizens. I think it's important to remind you of that. The Swedish Democrats make a rather draconian reduction of the pre-aid by SEK 284 million. It is a serious threat to the squares of democracy, because that is what the press is. At this time of great turbulence, in which the media industry is undergoing a major restructuring, I believe that the media need this support more than ever in order to make it through a very difficult transition. I will briefly address a few points in the budget. As far as media policy is concerned, media support is increasing by 55 million.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-547	For the work against threats and hatred against journalists, artists and elected representatives – threats from the right, from the left and from religious extremists – the grant is increased by 5 million. The Ombudsman for Discrimination receives increased resources. There will be increased resources for national minorities. There will also be increased resources for the Ombudsman for Justice to supervise the public administration. These are important measures to strengthen the legitimacy of the functioning of Swedish democracy. Finally, I cannot help commenting on what Mr Skånberg has touched on, namely that the Christian Democrats of all cut SEK 1 million more than the government of the young court and castle state. It's very exciting. One cannot help but think about what kind of mishaps the king has caused Tuve Skånberg to propose this measure. I support the committee's proposal.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-551	Mr President, I would like to Hans Ekström has addressed some of the differences that exist with regard to our various budget allocations in an exciting way. For us Moderates, it's about savings at the Government Office. I am well aware of the difficulties in saving the Government Office. That's the way it's always been. At the same time, I would say that it is not populism to demand a degree of restraint in the departments and central management of the Council of State Committee. It takes a lot of money. We also see a shift. I think what SNS points out in its long-term democracy report is very worrying. We have a parliament that is losing more and more ground, while the government is strengthening. Long-term this is a bad development. Then there are two things you can do. One is to add more resources or powers to the Riksdag. We are taking a few steps in this direction. The second is, of course, to hold back the administrative appropriations for the government. We have chosen to try to do both things. It is quite right that there was a deal in the past, because it went very quickly when resources were cut to embassies and other things, and it did not really work. But the situation today is such that it is reasonable to try to reduce something anyway. It's not necessarily about closing down embassies. My question to Mr Ekström is: do the Social Democrats understand the long-term problem that we have when the shift in power is as obvious as is pointed out in the democracy report?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-557	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, there's definitely a big problem with that. That is also why I think what we have discussed in the KU, such as the issue of the importance of parliamentary investigations, is very important. It is a way of making the work wider. It is better to prepare matters in the form of government investigations with parliamentary elements than for the Riksdag to build a kind of preparation of matters in parallel. I think Parliament is ill-designed for this. It would almost mean building a kind of institutional competition between parliament and government in this part. Therefore, the processing work itself should be mainly carried out in the Government Office. However, one way of strengthening Parliament's transparency and ability to reach broad compromises on important social issues would be to ensure that parliamentary investigations are once again strengthened. I think that is a very important part.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-559	Mr President, I would like to There is also a proposal for parliamentary investigations in the democracy inquiry from SNS researchers. You can always discuss that. However, employing more MPs in parliamentary investigations does not change the fact that the Government Office has grown stronger and stronger for 30 to 40 years. The current government has also cut back on some accounts that are extremely central to us as Members of Parliament and to the Riksdag. In fact, the only way for us then to get answers about the policies that we are pursuing and what we are saying is to achieve is to find out. And we have quite little resources in Parliament for that, and that is why we are trying to do something here. We have different views on this. But we will probably continue along this path and ensure that the Riksdag gets the right basis and, in any case, improve the conditions for it. At the same time, we must keep an eye on the developments that we have seen in the Government Office. Of course, we have the ambition to take over government power next autumn. I understand all the concerns about saving, because there is never an administration that believes that one can do so. But I can say it's necessary. In a situation where many others are actually concerned about resources, we cannot constantly fatten the Government Office. It must be slimmer and more effective, even though it pains many times. Today, there are also modern technology that means that everything does not have to be as cumbersome as it is many times. I therefore believe that we should follow several of the proposals that have been put forward by the SNS. But our proposal on the budget is a step in actually doing a little more right. I hope that the Social Democrats will come to that in the future as well.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-565	Mr President, I would like to In international comparisons, the Swedish Government Office is rather narrow and rather tuned. In fact, the major strengthening of the Government Office took place at the time of Sweden's accession to the EU. This needed to be strengthened considerably, due to the fact that a large proportion of officials are on the move and are engaged in extensive negotiations. I think you have to bear this in mind when you look at these figures of the Government Office's development. It is then very clear that there was a major expansion in connection with EU entry. There have also been major reinforcements in the years when we have been President of the European Union, both under bourgeois and under Social Democratic governments. That's where you see the big reinforcements. However, since Sweden normally has minority governments, it is of course very important that we ensure that Parliament's influence is strong and great. However, I believe that the main line to go on is to strengthen the investigation system by having parliamentary investigations – and thus to bring forward legislative proposals that are properly worked out and have the potential to gain a majority in the Riksdag. During the period of bourgeois government, when you first had to compromise between four parties, it is clear that there were not much compromise possibilities left when you came up with finished packages unless the package would crack. Such things, I believe, are quite natural to coalition governments, whether they are social democratic or bourgeois-led. Then parliamentary investigation needs to be used as a means of reaching broad compromises.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-568	Mr President, I would like to Hans Ekström requests information on why the Christian Democrats have added 1 million less to the monkey. I would like to remind you that the KU is responsible for more than 14.5 billion overall, Mr President. If we look at just the grant to the Royal Court and Palace State, which is over 139 million, we see that it is 7 per mille that separates us. The reason, as I said earlier, is that, in relation to the government, we are making a different calculation of the difference due to the continued adjustment of price and wage conversions. I understand, however, that Hans Ekström wants to give me an opportunity to stand up for the apes and say that we obviously agree that His Royal Highness and the Court State should have the necessary resources and that the Christian Democrats at all are not on the same line as those who want to cut back. Thank you for that opportunity.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-571	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit ironic that a Republican must remind Tuve Skånberg that the Head of State is mentioned His Majesty and not His Royal Highness. Otherwise, the speech was quick to make a bit of fun.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-572	Mr President, I would like to The title of this year's budget contains the words and investments for the future, and that is also something the red-green government does. Much has already been said in this budget debate on Category 1, which deals with the Head of State, the Riksdag and its Ombudsmen, the Sameting and Sami Policy, the Government Office, the County Administrative Boards, democracy policy, human rights, national minorities, Sieps and efforts to strengthen participation in EU work. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. This is a wide-ranging area to debate, despite the fact that there is a great deal of consensus among the parties on the major features of most of the funding points. For example, for the Riksdag, this means that all parties think it's a good idea to celebrate the democracy anniversary between 2018 and 2022 and set aside money for this celebration. We are also in favour of increasing security in the field of information and cyber security. It is also gratifying to see that we have a consensus on the new proposal for objectives in the field of democracy, which will now be a living democracy that is sustainable, characterised by participation and where opportunities for influence are equal. The proposed change in objectives comes from the Democracy Investigation, which pointed out that more people need to have access to the resources necessary to be able to participate and make their voice heard on issues that affect and engage. Our budget report also deals with issues of violent extremism. In a previous speech, Beatrice Ask raised the issue of defection. There is work going on here, and just as she mentioned, there are very good examples where you do a very good job locally and regionally. For example, Eva-Lena and I were in Värmland on Friday and visited the Crime Prevention Centre, which works a lot with defectors when it comes to right-wing extremist groups. In particular, it highlighted the importance that a defector's activity can play a freer role and thus seem less frightening when people are going to dare to approach it. One of the points we highlight in the report is that the government has given a mission to the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, MUCF, to provide guidance to municipalities and civil society organisations to safeguard democracy against violent extremism. The mission is now completed and reported, and the agency has presented the guidance, called the Knock Code! The work requires collaboration within the public sector – in a municipality, between municipalities, county councils and regions and between state authorities. However, it also requires interaction with civil society. Associations, religions and other actors are an important resource at different stages. The guide consists of three parts, where the first part highlights knowledge about civil society and the different conditions of municipalities. There is also a perspective on prevention and the need for collaboration. The second part is a concrete guide to how municipalities and civil society can interact in different phases of the prevention of violent extremism, and the third part describes different models of collaboration that are in place today. As far as the county boards are concerned, I would like to agree with Hans Ekström on the importance of understanding the central work that is being done on the county boards in terms of coordination. One can imagine that it sounds like there is a lot of bureaucracy, but without coordination there is a lot that falls flat to the ground. This is also about very much of the overall environmental objectives and some development of the total defence, which the government thinks it is crucial to invest in. When it comes to the issue of the Swedish Data Protection Authority, it is a very divided picture we get from the different parties. I think we fully agree that the Swedish Data Protection Authority, in connection with the new General Data Protection Regulation, which will enter into force in May next year, will have very important tasks – which it already has. It is also the case that extensive digitalisation places great demands on legislators, and a lot of people want to move forward quickly. It is then important to have an authority that protects democracy and highlights the important security work. Therefore, the Swedish Data Protection Authority is now receiving more than SEK 30 million in its budget, and that is something I very much welcome. However, one should be aware that it is not just adding so much new money. It takes time to recruit this type of person, and that is why I also believe that these 30 million are enough. One of the issues we in the Constitutional Committee have been working on a lot over the past year is that of a human rights institution. The government states in its budget proposal that it is important to have one in place. I welcome this, and it is important that civil society organisations be involved in this work. At the moment, this issue lies with the government, and we will have a debate on it next week.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-586	Mr President, I would like to I didn't have time to push in for a line, so I had to put myself on the list. I'll keep it pretty short. We were told earlier from the speaker's chair that the Swedish Democrats are proposing very large reductions in the funding of the press. That is absolutely true – we are proposing substantial savings on pre-financing. There are several reasons for this. It is not, however, primarily a question of what was said from here that we should not see the problematic situation that is at the door of all the editors who need to shift their activities from the traditional way in which they operate to a more digitised form. As everyone in this House knows, we have also allocated a special conversion aid for this conversion in previous years. What we in the Swedish Democrats have proposed in the first place is a reduction of the usual operating aid – not of the distribution aid or the conversion aid. When it comes to a change, the industry faces a challenge. Another thing that everyone in here knows is that we have the pre-support that we have today at the mercy of the European Union. It is an exception to the EU's state aid rules, which we must constantly ask for renewal of. Sooner or later, the EU will say no. Doping this industry and making it even more dependent on one at that time may even be illegal state aid and then completely pulling the carpet under its feet does not seem like a responsible way of acting. That is why we are proposing a gradual phasing-out of the current misdirected and incorrect pre-financing. We need to remember what and to what editorials the pre-support goes. If it had been the case that the pre-support really went to the small local editorial offices, which are involved in local guarding and journalism, things might have come in a different light. But it's not really like that. The really small editorial teams in the small towns are usually so small that they do not even meet the requirements to be eligible for pre-financing. The Swedish Democrats have proposed a lot of other measures – such as the abolition of sickness pay – that would generally benefit small companies and would also benefit small editorial teams in rural areas. Today we have a pre-aid which is in danger of becoming illegal and which is primarily aimed at newspapers such as Today's ETC, which I believe has eleven different editions of similar material. Is this what the advocates of today's press support consider to be a living and multifaceted journalism? Instead, we see it as having received more of the same things in a slightly different way, as eleven different editors for today's ETC.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-596	Mr President, I would like to We now have to discuss the grant to our three fiscal authorities: the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority. These important authorities must ensure that we have a functioning tax system. The taxes we decide on must be perceived as reasonable, and the purpose of the tax system must not be misunderstood. Legitimacy, legal certainty and transparency must permeate all aspects of what we in this House are deciding on and the effects of which our three authorities subsequently have to a large extent to deal with. Here we have a heavy responsibility not only for those of us who decide on the legislation, but also for our authorities. It should also be added that political decisions and the exercise of public authority must be characterised by long-termness, clarity and predictability in order to create long-term rules of play. Mr President, I would like to The Tax Committee has an increasing international connection. It is important because of the increased movement of people, goods, businesses and capital that both the European Union and the globalisation of the economy have brought about and which places more demands on our work and on the work of the authorities. At the same time, major regulatory and regulatory processes are underway both within the EU and at international level, particularly in the field of taxation. This will have a major impact on Swedish legislation in the future. Mr President, I would like to When the alliance government ruled, it became more profitable to work, especially for those with lower incomes. This mattered. Tax revenues increased markedly, and so did tax morals. A prerequisite for tax collection to remain stable and legitimate is that people and companies understand which taxes are levied. However, at least as important are the signals that are sent about the future tax collection. It is people at work who build Sweden strong. It is people at work who create the conditions for safe care, for a good school and for us to feel safe. The basis for this is companies throughout the country that can and want to employ. Unfortunately, we see alarming signals in several areas. What future corporate taxation will look like is highly unclear at the moment. As far as tax levels and regulations are concerned, we may have different entrances in this House, but one thing is clear: uncertainty about future taxes is not a good thing for Swedish entrepreneurship or for Swedish competitiveness. Mr President, I would like to The service of our three authorities The Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten is improving and will continue to improve. This brings with it a more widespread and growing use of e-services, which is very good. These issues, of course, mean that efforts and developments to create an even more modern and well-functioning service continue, but the presence of the state throughout the country is central to society at large. It is central to the exercise of authority, to the efficiency of the state administration itself, to growing businesses and to ordinary people. For this reason, for a number of years in the Center Party, we have carried out a great deal of work to rebalance the price and salary recalculation. We have also been counting on the benchmark system with the stated aim of authorities themselves reviewing their location. I think I mentioned earlier here in the speaker's chair the example when the Swedish Tax Agency moved the Stockholm regional office from Magnus Ladulåsgatan on Söder to Solna beach in the neighboring municipality, which meant an annual saving of over SEK 90 million. I took the liberty of repeating this because I think it is a good example. It is fundamentally unreasonable that large agencies located on addresses that are among the most expensive in Sweden, in the inner city of Stockholm, get their rents compensated based on where they are located. We can see that the rental development in Stockholm has been strong for a number of years. The localisation of public authorities thus contributes strongly to an increasingly overheated housing market situation in Stockholm, with all the displacement effects that localisation has on the private sector. The local space of the authorities per employee varies greatly, indicating that there is a potential for efficiency efficiency. Similarly, there is a wide variation in the cost per square metre of local space and employee. The limitation of price and wage recalculation means that public authorities are subject to a saving pressure that gives them incentives to relocate to places with lower costs of premises. We want the Center Party to relocate authorities to the country outside the big cities. Mr President, I would like to Let me go into a few examples from the exercise river. The Center Party proposes to increase the grant to the Customs Agency. The resources are intended to be used for increased control of imported goods. We want to give the Customs Agency the power to seize antibiotics from another EU country. There is a common EU approach to antibiotics, but only Sweden lives up to it. We therefore believe that more needs to be done at European level. It is especially important when we live in a world where resistance is increasing more rapidly and the lack of new forms of antibiotics is becoming an ever-increasing problem. This is an important health issue. From the Center Party we have, together with the other alliance parties, exercised about the authority of the Customs Agency. The Customs Agency has the possibility to control and retain postal consignments that are presumed to contain narcotics. Since 1 May 2016, Customs has also been able to check courier consignments but is unable to hold courier consignments through a postal block. We therefore want the Customs Agency to be given the power to retain courier consignments, while at the same time extending its powers to illegal goods other than drugs, such as illegal weapons. It is a matter of great urgency in order to reduce the import of goods which are not legitimate to the country. Mr President, I would like to Let me say that, since Parliament has taken a decision in one step, we have to relate to the framework laid down by the state budget and the guidelines of budgetary policy. That is why we do not take part in all the decisions. Finally, I would like to endorse what we have said in the Committee on Taxation in relation to centre-party opinions and alliance opinions.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-618	Mr President, I would like to In a situation where more reforms are needed to strengthen employment, get more people to work and reduce exclusion, the government is moving in the opposite direction, making job creation and entrepreneurship more difficult and costly. During this term, the government has already increased taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship by as much as SEK 35 billion. It is particularly problematic in the light of major socio-economic needs to extend working life, to have more people in work and more people in employment for longer periods of time. It will pay to make an effort in Sweden. I'm going to let more people come to their own. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's prosperity rests ultimately on people trying, running businesses and taking risks. The driving forces of education and entrepreneurship must therefore be constantly safeguarded. State income tax should cover fewer than today, and corporate taxes need to safeguard entrepreneurship drivers. Higher marginal taxes and corporate taxes are to be countered. Mr President, I would like to There is great concern at the borders of our country. Crime, gangs and smuggling are moving more and more unhindered. We have to change that. The multifaceted activities of the Customs Agency include some of the most important core tasks of society, guaranteeing security, sovereignty at our country's borders and protection at our country's borders. The police even say that Sweden has become a country that criminals see as a sandwich table. The Customs Service has a strong need to increase controls on goods, people and postal supplies to discover what we do not want and see in our country: weapons and drugs. Criminals advance their positions and insecurity increases. Weapons and drugs are regularly smuggled. The Customs Department, together with others, plays a central role in law enforcement. The Customs Service has a strained situation and has for a long time appealed to the government to see the reality that they see every day, around the clock at our country's borders. Today it is not just about the smuggling of drugs, weapons, alcohol and tobacco. Today we are dealing with new areas, such as excise duties, terrorism and civil defence. This requires additional resources. Mr President, I would like to Every invested crown at Tullverket means big savings for our society. It is therefore regrettable to note, after discussions with staff organisations and the Customs Association, that what the government calls historical efforts at the Customs Agency is only about getting in balance with the level that the Customs Agency had in 2013. So these are not bets; they are fine words. That is why, Mr President, we are making a substantial investment of almost half a billion to the Customs Agency in the coming years. That's 175 million more than the current government is betting. We are doing so in order to combat terrorism and serious crime that is organised, and so is smuggling. Every invested crown at Tullverket means big savings for society. Mr President, I would like to The Tax Agency has a crucial role to play in dealing with what is today the major part of the tax committee's remit. Tackling irregular payments from welfare systems and working to combat organised crime is now an obvious and common part of the Customs Agency's activities. The fact that the right people receive the support they are entitled to in our welfare systems is the basis for the support to have legitimacy in the future. Unserious actors and criminals should not be allowed to take part in this. It has been known for a long time that the Swedish Tax Agency has shortcomings in its systems that mean that funds are paid out every day by our common tax resources that do not benefit the right people. But the government has not acted. The Government has been waiting for reports, investigations and most recently a national audit report and says that next year the Swedish Tax Agency may be able to start working on this. It's a little late. It is distressing that criminals today benefit from common resources that hard-working people have worked together. Why is the government acting too late? Why does the government not see the challenges? The Moderates are therefore also investing heavily in the Swedish Tax Agency in order to be able to work more intensively on this. We believe that it is essential both to counteract errors and to combat tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. The Tax Agency should therefore have a special task to combat tax evasion and, of course, also adapt to the new sharing economy that is now emerging. Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Moderates and the Alliance parties are behind all our demands and reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 5 for the vote this afternoon.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-630	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. With regard to the appropriations for Category 3, we are expressing our proposal in our specific opinion in the report. We are therefore not taking part in the decision, because our appropriations are higher than the adopted financial framework. It is clear, as I said, that the Swedish Democrats have a significantly higher allocation than the government to the relevant authorities. The Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority have central tasks for the maintenance of a well-functioning society, for the maintenance of good payment standards and for law enforcement. The Swedish Democrats propose increased funding for all three agencies, but our top priority is the Swedish Customs Agency. Like other protective authorities, such as police and defence, Customs has been too low a priority for too long. Disarmament has been going on in this area as well, and this has meant that the forecast for the Customs Agency has been a major reduction in activity in recent years. Now, at last, the government seems to be allocating funds with the aim of maintaining existing activities, but we think it is far too little and far too late. The reductions combined with an increase in organised crime involving smuggled goods such as arms, drugs and more are harmful to society. The government will certainly increase the funding for the Swedish Customs Agency for 2018 compared to previous years and previous forecasts, but it will require much more and further increases over a period of years to reach a level that corresponds to the problems facing our society. The Swedish Democrats believe that a greater focus needs to be placed on the Swedish Customs' law enforcement and thus security conservation activities. Our focus is that border protection needs to be developed and, above all, extended. You need to develop collaboration with the police and other authorities. There is a need to invest more in technology to facilitate border protection and controls in the flow of goods. The Swedish Democrats' proposal represents an increase in ambition that would create the conditions to reverse developments correctly so that the Swedish Customs Administration can intensify its work against organised crime within its areas of responsibility. Priority must also be given to the security and authority of the staff in order to meet the increased pressure of criminal activities and to raise the ambition for both quality and quantity in Customs' operations. The work of carrying out checks to detect the exit of stolen goods and other criminal exits must be intensified and given the conditions necessary for this type of offence to be effectively prosecuted. Border protection also needs to expand with the aim of working around the clock, all year round in all places where it is needed. Today, the Finnish Customs does not have the capacity to handle border protection in this way, not in the vicinity actually. The Customs Agency must also cope with the efforts on digitalisation and other service measures needed to meet the commitments we have within the framework of the Customs Union and to facilitate trade between Sweden and other countries, which is a crucial issue for Sweden's economy. The Customs Office also expects that increased appropriations will be needed to deal with the situation following the UK's withdrawal from the EU. The Swedish Tax Agency primarily handles tax matters with a focus on service and collection of taxes but has several other assignments. The design and direction of the agency's activities are important for the development of society in these respects. The Swedish Democrats' political orientation for the Swedish Tax Agency is based on development work in the following areas: The Tax Agency should prioritise work on the bilateral tax agreements in order to maintain Swedish export competition, which is important not least for employment in Sweden. Another important task is law enforcement, also in cooperation with other authorities. In line with globalisation, the OECD has noted that the problems of tax evasion and tax evasion have increased. We are therefore in favour of Swedish participation in a broad international cooperation within the framework of OECD anti-BEPS measures. In addition to intentional tax offences and aggressive tax planning, there are also tax errors that are sometimes intentional, sometimes unintentional. The Swedish Tax Agency needs to expand its efforts to prevent these tax errors, and the Swedish Democrats therefore propose increased funding for more tax controls. Furthermore, there is a need to ensure a good service to companies, simplification of regulatory systems and good order in public records, as I mentioned earlier, and there the Tax Agency has a great deal of responsibility. The task of the enforcement authority is, in addition to collecting tax and other debts, to provide support to those who are not paid for their claims and to make it easier for those who are in default to get back on their feet. An important task in this context is to develop methods to raise awareness of the backsides of over-indebtedness and how to avoid such a situation. The Swedish Enforcement Authority has already come some way, for example through its work with the Koll project on the everyday economy, but we believe that there should be more to do in this area. Any person or company that avoids insolvency is a profit for society. We therefore want to commission the Swedish Enforcement Authority to develop that part of the agency's work and propose legislative changes that could help reduce the risks of over-indebtedness.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-646	Mr President, I would like to First of all, allow me to endorse reservation 5. I was going to bring up a couple of things from the Liberals' draft budget in this area. The first concerns the Customs Agency, one of the authorities that the Committee on Taxation has to deal with. I stood here in the speaker's chair a year ago arguing that the Swedish Customs should get more money to do more in their business. It is a very effective law enforcement measure to ensure that the Customs Service has proper resources. It is smart to stop crime even at the border, before it enters the country where it becomes more difficult to stop and has negative consequences for society. Last year, the government did not spend any more money on the Customs Agency, as the Liberals did. This is what the government has now done for next year, which is excellent. However, we do not believe that this is enough, but we want to spend additional money on the Customs Agency. It is good for law enforcement in the country, and it also gives Customs the opportunity to collaborate with other authorities, for example with the Swedish Enforcement Authority, when people try to bring money, jewels and other things out of Sweden while they have large debts here in Sweden. It is only in cooperation with, for example, the Enforcement Authority and, in other cases, other authorities that this can be effectively stopped at the border. It is therefore important both when trying to bring illegal things into Sweden and to stop the export of certain things. For this, the Customs Agency needs more resources, so we also provide this budget and hope that the government will follow suit. Ideally, we hope that there will be another government that can do this in the 2019 budget. Another proposal that we have here is certainly a small one in this huge state budget, but it can have great significance in a very rapidly emerging part of our economy, namely the part that we call the collaborative economy and where services and goods are shared. I live in a small cottage in the countryside and have to dig in my garden country at least once a year think it is quite unnecessary to have to do it by hand. My wife may think I can do it by hand, but I'd like a ground cutter. However, I am a little too cheap to buy a ground cutter that is used a quarter of an hour each year. With sharing economy, one can instead go into one of the different platforms that exist and see that a neighbor a few miles away has a cutter to rent out. Then I can rent it for a few hours and I don't have to dig. It could be a tip for other users around the country. Parts of the collaborative economy, as we call it, are completely white and functional. You pay taxes as you should and report all the data. Here it is both companies and people who should pay taxes that do this. You should keep track of the limits you reach, when you're going to pay it, and so on. Some do it just fine, and some do it like that. It becomes a bit more grey sector of it all, and some make it completely black. Sometimes it's deliberately black. You don't pay taxes because you just deliberately ignore it. But often it can be that you don't really know or forget. There could be a small sum here and there. What would cause the problem of largely disappearing is to make it very easy for the companies to report directly to the Swedish Tax Agency. They would not do that by someone sitting around filling out long forms. All of this is already digitised. You have it in the databases of the companies. If you give a commission to the Tax Agency to develop a simple solution that they can connect to, those data flow in automatically, the tax is paid, and it is easy to keep track of the limits that are reached. We would like to give such an assignment to the Swedish Tax Agency. It is an authority that is good at much of the digital. I'm sure that would solve it just fine. We from the Liberals think it is excellent that a sharing economy is emerging. It's smart to share things, it's environmentally friendly to share things with each other, and it's efficient economically.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-656	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes it's good to be in the Chamber a little earlier. I listened to the debate of the Constitutional Committee and learned some new things. I learned that the budget for next year from the government is called Community Building – investing for the future. I can't see where that name came from. I don't see any investments for the future. What I see is that it invests for the present. It puts money in the black holes that exist in the municipalities, but it does not make any reforms at all. It tries to patch up the year that is next year without making any reforms for the future. Maybe the government should change the name of the budget to Invest for the present. We're also moving towards elections. The choice for people is really between two sides, whether to keep the government or whether to change government. For me, it's pretty simple. If the government has a budget that says it should invest for the present, and it is a government that just keeps raising taxes, it is not a government that I would like to have. It has raised 63 taxes. It has a reform space of 40 billion, but it does not manage to make the reforms needed to create a better Sweden in the future. I think it's boring. This is also evident in our area. When it comes to the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority, they are for me safety authorities. Customs is the security for me in the form of trying to prevent illegal goods entering the country. There are many of us who rely on our various authorities and also the Finnish Customs to do as good a job as possible. But I believe that there is potential for improvement within the Swedish Customs Agency by working with other authorities to stop as many people as possible trying to bring illegal goods into Sweden. We have seen examples that it works very well. I think that could be done in the future as well. A sharper check at the border makes the introduction of weapons and drugs more difficult. Increased cooperation between authorities means that you can have better accuracy to find these illegal goods, and that is better for Sweden. How can the Tax Agency be a security authority? It's from a fair point of view. Companies and persons must pay the fair tax to be paid. We should be able to explain why they pay the tax they pay. It is a little bit on us that we are creating tax rules that allow us to explain to people why they are paying a certain tax. It is important to interpret the rules fairly so that the citizen feels safe in dealing with matters, but also to try to find those who withhold taxes through checks. We have quite a lot at European level discussed withholding taxes and chasing those who withhold taxes. But of course it is also within our own country. We know that the agency is working hard to make it easier for people to declare. Many of us are e-declaring, but unfortunately it is not as simple on the corporate side. There is a great deal to be done on the company side to make it easier for companies to account for, declare and pay at the right time. I think that entrepreneurs would like this very clearly. If you ask an entrepreneur about the difficulty of running a business, accounting at the Tax Agency will probably come up quite early. It is about submitting the right information at the right time and paying the tax at the right time. I am absolutely convinced that many of those who go on tax surcharges and such things are not people who want to withhold taxes. They haven't had time to see how to do it properly. E-services are great. But sometimes you should visit the IRS. Then it is important that there are offices throughout the country. I know that we share that view in committee, so there should not be so much gunpowder on it. We Christian Democrats, like the government, want to provide funds to increase the number of local offices in Sweden. This means that we are opposed to the closure of more offices. We would prefer to see things go the opposite way, that is, we are increasing. Public services to citizens and entrepreneurs should continue to be improved. Local offices and work to further develop e-services are central. For people who are not fully comfortable with electronic communication, the possibility of personal meetings at a service office is of great importance. We Christian Democrats are behind Alliance Reserve 5. We want a sharper border control to make the introduction of, for example, arms and drug consignments more difficult. The fact that customs has the right tools is of the utmost importance to stop the influx of illegal weapons used by criminals. The Customs Department and the Police Authority should be given a joint mission to stop this inflow.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-667	Mr President, I would like to The President has been told that the government is investing nothing and that it is not a future budget. Compared to the last budget submitted by the bourgeois government, we have invested well over 30 billion in education. I guess it feels like a good investment for the future. But that is not what we are going to debate today, Mr President, but the report on the grant to the Customs, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report from the outset. These three authorities are central to our government for tax collection, customs and recovery. If Sweden is to continue to be an open country, it needs order and order at its borders. The illegal trade in alcohol, drugs and weapons is fuelling serious organised crime and must be combated. Therefore, the Tullverket receives its largest addition in more than a decade. The Swedish Customs Agency will now receive SEK 115 million in 2018 and SEK 130 million in 2019 and 2020. From 2021, the increase amounts to SEK 185 million, which is an increase of 10 percent compared to today. The moderate scolding of the government from the speaker's seat just now falls quite flat. What did you do in a government position? When we put questions to Anders Borg in this House, he described that he was following the question. With that, there won't be much money. Compare the Moderates' draft budget with the government's draft budget, it separates 3 per mil. It may be difficult to make a big policy out of 3 per mille. It is important that customs has effective border protection and is an effective law enforcement authority. An increased presence at borders with more customs controls will of course prevent smuggling. We want to stop the organised crime behind the so-called liquor buses, where large amounts of alcohol are brought into our country with specially built buses and sometimes with hired personnel. The government is now doubling the transport surcharge from 20% to 40% to counter this. Crime prevention is also needed. This is why earlier this year the Government has commissioned Customs, the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Economic Crime Authority to provide information to increase knowledge about the role of alcohol smuggling in criminal activities. Mr President, I would like to Work on implementing the ten-point programme against tax evasion negotiated by the Government and the Left Party continues. In the last budget, the Tax Agency had increased resources, and we are now following up this money in today's budget. Mr President, I would like to In the tracks of Luxleaks, Panama Papers and now Paradise Papers, it has been shown that Swedish citizens also participate in the global tax evasion to low-taxed paradise islands or some monarchy. Thankfully, we are now closing the tax evasion window increasingly through the various international commitments we have in our country. This concerns cooperation with the OECD, the so-called BEPS projects and new legislation in this House. The preliminary business plan presented by the Tax Agency to the Tax Committee is quite impressive. Digitization continues. It will be more effective for citizens as well as companies and the Swedish Tax Agency itself. It really feels that digitalisation has been prioritised. We residents can declare today on the mobile phone. When the Swedish Tax Agency reports its forthcoming plan to the committee, I feel that they will continue to work on simplifying the way for entrepreneurs to submit more data through digitalisation and the coordination of registers. Mr President, I would like to The authorities are working on creating uniform treatment for those who meet them. Women and men shall be given equal opportunities and conditions in contacts with these authorities. When we conduct the official dialogue in committee, it is important that we point out precisely the importance of relations between the people and the authority. The rules and procedures that the authorities themselves have in place and that we do not decide on in this Parliament should be simple and easy to follow. Simplifications are always useful, because they counteract errors and cheating. Mr President, I would like to Finally, we believe that more needs to be done to prosecute tax evasion. We have already taken many decisions in this House, but this is about future decisions that we need to take with regard to tax treaties. We've made decisions on human resources, monthly reports and other things. This, of course, has an impact on the income of our state, and it creates competition neutrality in the market in which companies operate. It is important that companies have a level playing field and that employees have reasonable rules in this market. As I said, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-681	Mr President, I would like to A police officer recently said that Sweden is like a smorgasbord for criminals. Many are concerned that criminals may move more freely than before at our country's borders. It is a reality that customs officials and others who work together to maintain Swedish protection face daily. I believe that Jörgen Hellman and the Social Democrats have the ambition that Sweden will continue to be an open country, where we will have order at our country's borders. But it is important that these words also harmonize with the reality that is encountered every day from customs. Customs has for a long time therefore asked the government to increase its resources. It has also put forward proposals for increased powers, because it can be seen that more can be done. The statement about the sandwich table is only a few weeks old. So this is a situation we are experiencing here and now. It is clear that the government is taking a small step with the budget that will now pass the Swedish parliament. But it's just a small step, because just as I said it's about getting up to the level where the Customs was in 2013. My first questions to Jörgen Hellman and the Social Democrats are: Do you experience protection at our country's borders and other fights as it was in 2013? Is that why nothing has happened in recent years? You do not think there is a need to make any effort. The word bet is gladly used by the government, but there is no bet if you go back to the level that existed in 2013. Does Jörgen Hellman agree with this?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-685	Mr President, I would like to There is a whole thing in politics. We inherited a budget deficit from the bourgeois government which we have now struggled to turn into a budget surplus, in which we spend in principle 40 billion on reforms and 40 billion on amortization of public debt. Of the billions we spend on reforms, a large part goes to investing for the future in education and other things. We believe that it will create good growth and a fairer country. This is the cornerstone of our policy. We'll have order in the community. It's supposed to be a security in our society. There, of course, the police, as Cecilia describes, have an important role. Customs also plays an important role there. We had a dream, which we probably had in common with the Moderates, when Sweden joined the EU that the borders could be opened. It would be a better Europe. Goods could easily flow across borders. But it didn't really happen that way. We saw the aversion to internationalisation. That is why, as I said, we need to invest in the Customs Agency so that we can increase border controls. The Government's assessment is that the SEK 115 million added for 2018 is a good start.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-689	Mr President, I would like to Since I did not receive a direct answer to my question, I understand that Jörgen Hellman and the Social Democrats designate 2013 and 2017 as approximately the same year in the assessment of the status at our country's borders. I would like to encourage Jörgen Hellman to visit the tull, to meet customs officials, to listen to their everyday lives and, above all, to take part in them. Then he may return to Parliament with a proposal that is well-concerned with the reality that they are experiencing. Just because you repeat a word like this, it doesn't make it any more true for every opportunity you do it. In the coming years, the Swedish Customs Agency will decide to recruit a further 120 employees for 2018. That's great. At the same time, the Finnish Customs will retire over 80 employees. In addition, it is expected that some additional employees will change their position and start working elsewhere in society. The handful that net becomes the effect in 2018 will not cover up and be what the government considers to be an investment in customs. Therefore, Jörgen Hellman and the Social Democrats: Look into the package proposed by the Moderates to the Finnish Customs! We are spending half a billion in the coming years to strengthen protection at our country's borders. We are concerned, and we share it with many. We have to do more. Begin the steps that you have begun in the government, but take a good step forward! Then also fill the words you use with content in the form of real action! There are many out there who know that an investment in Tullverket is an investment in our Swedish society. It is an effort to ensure that more people feel safe and secure and that together we can overcome the crime that is now growing more and more across the borders of our country. It is precisely there that border control plays an important role in a broad chain.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-693	Mr President, I would like to Something stupid, I think this is going to be. The bourgeois government did not invest in customs. Now we are investing SEK 115 million more. The Moderates have 3 per mil more in their budget for this area of expenditure than the government and take big words about how much these 3 per mil would do in reality. It is true that all parties here now continue to argue that customs needs more money for their business. If you look at the budgets of the various alliance parties, you can see that there are alliance parties that have a reduction in the appropriations for customs. Thus, even the Alliance does not have a uniformity in that policy. As I said, I personally think that 115 million is quite a big investment in customs.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-696	Mr President, I would like to A new debt restructuring law has been in force in Sweden for more than a year. Those who are the most economically vulnerable, those who are over-indebted, are thus better off and have, above all, had the opportunity to improve in the future. It is a new regulatory framework in which for two months a year you do not have to live on the poverty line, but above all, the reform means that the opportunity to get out of the situation – to be able to pay your debts and do right – is increasing. Many who have been stuck in insolvency, as it is said, have long paid off, but interest and interest on interest have made the total debt rise even faster. Organizing opportunities to get out of such a situation is important in many ways. It is of course important for the individual, especially when the individual has children who are affected, but it also benefits society as a whole when you get the chance to earn money that you not only have to pay off but can also have for yourself. It creates opportunities for future prospects in different ways. The number of applicants for debt restructuring has increased since the new law came. It is gratifying, for one of the aims was that more people could get out of this situation. In last week's autumn change budget, we allocated more funds to overcome the queues that have arisen after more people have applied for debt restructuring. Mr President, I would like to It has become popular in the debate to suggest more police officers. It is needed, and the police organization needs to work better. But law enforcement is not just about the police organization and the number of police officers. There are many other relevant authorities. Not least on the economic side, when it comes to financial crime, the Tax Agency is one of the players who makes a difference and put criminals on the spot. The Green Party and the Social Democrats have taken steps to tackle the black economy and organised crime. We have extended the system of human resources to more industries and changed the system of self-corrections so that those who are found will not be considered to do a self-correction automatically but will instead receive a tax surcharge. We have also discussed here just before the Customs Agency, which also prevents and reduces crime, not least with regard to the existence of weapons. Prior to 2017, the Swedish Customs Agency received a clearer mandate in the Government's regulation letter to focus on illegal weapons. The government will also take other measures, such as an amnesty of arms, to reduce the number of illegal weapons. Mr President, I would like to I think we need to take a quick look at what the other options are on the table. The funding of the Moderates is slightly higher than that of the Government, but the Christian Democrats and, above all, the Center Party are making drastic cuts in this area, mainly at the Swedish Tax Agency. Despite the fact that representatives of both parties, KD and C, talk about investments you want to make and about the relocation of authorities from existing locations, you cut quite drastically, the Center Party with over SEK 100 million, in the Swedish Tax Agency's grant. It is good that authorities are located in different places. The Social Democrats and the Green Party have worked actively on it, but they do not come from the fact that it is something that initially costs. When the E-Health Agency moved to Kalmar, we saw that this involved initial costs. Giving such missions in combination with cutting down on appropriations rather than allocating more would mean that the authorities would have to cut even more if it became a reality. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to support the proposal in the report.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-706	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority are extremely important authorities in our state administration. These authorities are responsible for managing the tax policy and tax system decided in this House. This is done, among other things, by ensuring the financing of the public sector and by contributing to a well-functioning society for citizens and business and by combating crime. That is why we have proposed that appropriations for these activities total more than SEK 11 billion. The activities of the IRS are more important today than ever, Mr President. Tax crimes, tax evasion and tax evasion have become the hallmark of greed in today's Sweden. It is not surprising that Sweden has become a target for tax evasion international ecobuses after eight years with an alliance government. During these eight years, the Alliance abolished the auditorship of small companies, the wealth tax and the gift tax, all of which were useful tools and instruments of control against financial crime. This was done even if the Swedish Economic Crime Authority and the Swedish Tax Agency had warned against changes of this type in various preparatory work. These were warnings that the Alliance chose to ignore completely. In addition, all public sector control authorities have been severely and indirectly rigorously controlled by means of violent tax cuts, which has led to a reduction in the resources for controls thereafter. What you need to do is to roll back the deterioration that the Alliance has done and provide resources to both identify, combat and prosecute all tax evaders, and create the conditions for S katteverket's di gitalisation work to simplify for companies but also to prevent and counteract cheating and misreporting. Mr President, I would like to The illegal trade in arms, drugs and alcohol has largely contributed to the serious organised crime that we are seeing in Sweden today. Therefore, it is important to add a total of 245 million for 2018 and 2019 and an increase of 185 million from 2021. It is important to facilitate and create the conditions for the Swedish Customs to be able to effectively combat crime at Sweden's borders, and to enable increased presence and controls to prevent the smuggling of weapons, drugs and alcohol, among other things. There is a great deal that needs to be done, Mr President, and the Green Party will continue to combat tax evasion and tax evasion as a priority. These are measures which, in addition to increasing the resources available to our authorities, would significantly complicate these ecobuses with their approach. We need to strengthen money laundering legislation, give Kronofogden more powers to carry out, for example, supervision of operators with business bans and increase the exchange of information between the Tax Agency and the corresponding authorities internationally. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the government and the Alliance have chosen to hunt war refugees instead of tax evasion, or rather tax criminals as they really are. They are the real cause of the systemic collapse that was mentioned during the refugee and humanitarian crisis. Mr President, I would like to With the efforts to these authorities that we have proposed, we will ensure the financing of the public sector and contribute to a well-functioning society for citizens and business and to counter crime. I would like to conclude by calling for the committee's proposal on the appropriations to be allocated to the three authorities: the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-715	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation on this matter to be approved. In this bill, the Government proposes amendments to the VAT Act which mean that certain ships can be purchased and sold without VAT. It is also about VAT-free supplies of various kinds. This is an important issue for shipping companies, as they compete with shipping companies from other countries with such advantages. The possibility of exempting from VAT applies to vessels used in what is defined as "open sea" and carrying passengers for payment or used for commercial, industrial or fisheries activities. The rules also apply to sea rescue, assistance and coastal fishing, regardless of where these activities take place. However, they do not apply to the important coastal shipping of Sweden, which the government in other contexts says it wants to protect. While the amendments proposed are good for some, as the government leaves the important maritime transport outside, they contribute to the deterioration of the conditions for shipping companies engaged in such activities. We are critical of the very moderate attitude the government has towards creating good conditions for Swedish companies when adapting Swedish law to the EU acquis. One of the problems with this bill is that the government has not done what is necessary to clarify the definition of important concepts. One is the open sea, which is used to draw the line between tax exemption or not. According to the Swedish Maritime Association, this means that shipping companies operating shipping between countries where territorial borders meet cannot count on being able to use the exemption for VAT, even though it is international traffic. This is an example of how things can go. The design of the law thus creates an undesirable competitive disadvantage for these shipping companies, which are forced to tighten the routes in order to get around the rules so that they can compete on equal terms. It can also contribute to decisions to flag out ships or lie in the balance that means that establishment in Sweden does not happen. It is not an acceptable system for the government to submit legislative proposals that contain shortcomings such as these. The latest example was the excise duty on ship fuel, where a similar lack of initiative led to the suffering of archipelago companies through the shortcomings of the government. We had a similar discussion with bordering problems in terms of how shipping companies can take advantage of the possibility of tonnage taxation in 2016. The boundaries are also different in the different contexts, which creates a lot of bureaucracy that costs both shipping companies and society a lot of money for nothing. All in all, the effect of government policy is to counteract one's own aims. This hampers the development of Swedish shipping by making conditions worse than those of foreign competitors and increasing the cost of unnecessary red tape. Mr President, I would like to In 2016, the Government commissioned the Swedish Maritime Administration, in collaboration with the Finnish Transport Agency, to analyse the development potential of inland waterway transport and coastal shipping in Sweden, identify possible obstacles to development and, if necessary, propose measures to promote the conditions for maritime freight and passenger transport. In its mission description to the Swedish Maritime Administration, the Government writes: The government is working to strengthen the competitiveness of shipping. It can help to promote the government's goals of new industrialisation, strengthened exports and so on. It continues: a transfer of goods from land to maritime transport can help to reduce both the overall environmental impact of the transport sector and the congestion problem on land. Against this background, the government stated in the Maritime Strategy (dnr N2015/06135/MRT) that factors that could counteract such relocations need to be identified and proposals to address them are presented. A well-functioning inland and coastal shipping can contribute to better conditions for freight transport in Sweden. As far as the government's objectives and offensive statements are concerned, which I agree with. Mr President, I would like to We share the government's view that Swedish coastal and short sea shipping are important parts of the Swedish transport sector and that shipping has great potential in these respects. Sweden has unique conditions for managing large quantities of freight transport using shipping through our long coast and many ports. We should take all the measures available to facilitate the development of shipping companies, and create good conditions for Swedish shipping. That is why we believe that the government must become much more active in its work to make use of the clauses in the EU directives that enable Sweden to adapt the regulatory framework to the unique conditions that Sweden has in relation to other countries in the Union. All the shortcomings that arise in the legislation through the government's tired actions are counterproductive to the purpose the government itself states, as I quoted earlier, as the basis for the investigation mission to the Swedish Maritime Administration. It shows that the government is not in control of the consequences of its own legislation. And that, Mr President, is very bad for Swedish shipping in this case, and ultimately also for the Swedish economy as a whole. That the government is handling its mission in this tired way we have been able to see several times before, and that is really bad. But I am also surprised that the alliance parties do not react to this type of structural legislative incompetence and lack of responsibility for the conditions for Swedish entrepreneurship.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-729	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. I think that we need to understand the background to the fact that this bill and the bill have been tabled, namely that the European Commission has criticised Sweden for the legislation that we have not met the requirements of the European Union. And that can be the case with laws. This also applies to the Swedish law. I as a private person, a company, a municipality or someone else cannot interpret, reinterpret and use the law a little as it suits their own purposes at the time. The same is true of Sweden's approach to EU law. There are parts of EU legislation that are good and that strengthen Swedish companies, and there are parts that we can sometimes have views on. However, if we are to be able to require other countries to comply with the law in a way that also benefits Swedish companies, we ourselves cannot choose not to comply with the law or not to adapt our legislation. This is part of the EU membership that has essentially served Swedish companies including the shipping industry very well. The Parliament will therefore approve the Government's proposal for amendments to the VAT Act. Once again, I would like to point out to the Swedish Democrats that they have a rather strange attitude when in the Swedish Parliament they demand approval for the Swedish Government to break the law in relation to an EU directive.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-734	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, Anna Johansson is now in the speaker's chair speaking gallimatias. The Swedish Democrats are not proposing that we go against the EU acquis in this case, but that we use the EU acquis. We shall use the possibilities for derogations for the unique, specific conditions that we have in Sweden and from which there is room to make exceptions in, for example, the VAT Directive and also in the Energy Taxation Directive that was up before. My questions to Anna Johansson are: Why is the government so tired that you don't even read the prerequisites but think that you have to follow all the paragraphs without caring about what conditions they are made for? And why do you not want to take advantage of the opportunities that exist to make the conditions better for Swedish industry and shipping so that we can meet the goals that the government itself has set itself? These are objectives that we think are good but which the government ignores when it comes to practical action.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-736	Mr President, I would like to I do not know what experience Olle Felten has of EU negotiations, but in general, when the Commission criticises a country, it is going to be able to communicate with the Commission on the conditions to benefit as far as possible what it – in this case from the Swedish side – thinks is important. For example, we had lengthy discussions with the Commission when Sweden would introduce a tonnage tax system, and it was far from obvious that it would be approved. This kind of discussion is taking place, and somewhere at the end of the road it is said that the Commission is demanding that Sweden adapt its legislation to EU law. It is possible that Olle Felten has information on this matter that I do not have about not having had that kind of underhand contact. I assume that this is always done and that we, as Swedes in the EU, are always pushing for Swedish interests to be protected. The fact that this bill comes up and that a united committee, in addition to the Swedish Democrats, proposes that it be approved, suggests that this has already been done. But it is possible, as I said, that Olle Felten is in prison with information that the rest of us lack.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-740	Mr President, I would like to It's just to read inside. Read the Energy Taxation Directive! Read the VAT Directive! There are a number of different paragraphs which could be used, both in the context of the directive and in the articles of the directive itself. Anna Johansson must probably go home and read, I think, to get right in this discussion.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-741	Mr President, I would like to Not only me in that case, but also a single committee and a number of expert officials who have prepared this matter. It may also be that someone else needs to go home and read, but I'll leave it unsaid.
i-STDkjSj7B3P74HgQntAjXi	Mr President, I would like to The proposal proposes exemptions in the VAT Code for certain ships. Today, the Swedish VAT Act provides for the exemption of ships for professional shipping and so on. This Swedish derogation is more general and broader than the EU directive on this subject, as the European Commission has pointed out on a matter to Sweden. Under the EU directive, which Sweden is bound by, ships are to be used on the high seas in order to be exempt from VAT. The Government now proposes that this restriction be added to the Swedish regulations, which seven parties in the Riksdag support. The Swedish Democrats also want to include situations where the territorial waters of two countries are directly adjacent to each other. But that is not what the European directive says, and we are bound by it. This is a little complicated. Perhaps there are some contradictions in the report or in what the government is proposing. We agree that the government has prepared this and has a proposal. We must adapt to the directive. However, I note that the Swedish Tax Agency is also asking some questions. For our part, the Swedish Tax Agency says, we interpret the directive as allowing exceptions even when territorial waters are adjacent to each other and so on. The government addresses this issue in the bill but states – and refers to the EU VAT Committee – that the guidelines for what is open to the sea should be understood as meaning that the ship should predominantly be used on the high seas for the exemption to apply. So the government is putting its foot down here. It's complicated. The government has made the assessments. We have judged that we have to go along with this, but it is not entirely accessible. As I understand it, it will not mean any changes compared to today in relation to passenger ships and the trade there between Sweden and Finland and so on. Let's hope so. I support the proposal and reject the reservation.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-751	Mr President, I would like to The proposal proposes to adjust the definition of an enlarged few-person company as regards the assessment that all active partners should be considered as a single shareholder and thus be considered as a small-time parent company. As long as you read that introduction, you understand that this is a rather technical matter. The political conflict here is about the view of the Swedish business environment, the regulatory burden and the possibility of financing for companies. My criticism is based on three different weaknesses in the proposal. Firstly, I would argue that the government has proposed a change to the law that could have consequences for many more companies than is the intention of the government. Secondly, the proposal may affect the financing possibilities of companies. Finally, it is remarkable that the impact assessment is again poor. In this debate, I intended to focus on the inadequate impact assessment, but let me first put this in context. Today we have a dangerous job gap between foreign and domestic born. Many people born abroad, especially those who are not educated, find it very difficult to enter the labour market. It takes an average of eight to nine years before even half of them get a job. Of course, this affects children who never see their parents go to work. They don't get to see the parents go to work. Comprehensive school through and even when they graduate from high school, they've never seen Mom or Dad go to work. It is a tragedy for those children and those parents, but also, of course, for society at large. The Moderates aim to halve this dangerous job gap at first – and we know that four out of five jobs are created by small businesses. Then we cannot have a policy that makes it difficult for entrepreneurs and prevents companies from starting and growing. Instead, we need to improve the business environment – and every single decision, such as what we are debating today, is part of what together forms the business environment. During the time of the alliance government, we reduced administrative costs for companies by SEK 7 billion. Nearly 600 simplification proposals were implemented during this time, all to make the rules simpler for businesses and for entrepreneurs. During this time taxes were also reduced and the economic drivers for running businesses improved. Government policy, on the other hand, discourages entrepreneurship and jobs. For several years, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has conducted a survey of the business environment. According to their latest report, the business environment at national level has never been worse than it is today. It is therefore the companies themselves who express this view. The present government, of course, bears a great responsibility for this. Let me say a few words about precisely the impact assessments and the Rule Council. It is, of course, the Swedish system's watchdog to ensure that the administrative burden and regulatory burden are not too burdensome for companies. The Regulatory Council was established in 2008 under the previous government, and it was part of the government's efforts to simplify the business environment. Experience from other countries had shown that an independent review of additional rules reduces unnecessary regulatory problems. The Regulatory Council's task is to examine and express its views on the quality of impact assessments on constitutional proposals such as this, which have a major impact on companies. In February this year, the Council of Governors presented its annual report. There they had looked through all the impact assessments. It turned out that only 36% of the impact assessments were approved. An impact assessment shall contain eight different areas. The impact assessment that we have on the table today is inadequate in four of these areas. There is a lack of reporting on the need for specific information actions. The presentation of the administrative costs of the proposals is inadequate. The report on the impact of the proposal on the competitive environment of the undertakings concerned is inadequate and the report on the impact of the regulation on undertakings in other respects is inadequate. The overall assessment is:中 The Council finds that the impact assessment does not meet the requirements of Sections 6 and 7 of the Regulation(2007:1244) on impact assessment in regulatory matters. So it is the government's own decision-making body that makes this overall assessment, and it is a regulation that the government has to comply with. So it's not a choice. We expect people in Sweden to relate to laws and regulations, but the government is here presenting a proposal that does not comply with a regulation. We in the Moderates and other alliance parties have therefore reacted through a follow-up motion. We believe that the change may have consequences for companies, and therefore we believe that the consequences need to be investigated and that the government should return to the Riksdag with a correct impact statement by 1 July 2019. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to endorse the Alliance's reservation 2.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-766	Mr President, I would like to I can begin by agreeing with what Jörgen Warborn has said here. I think it was a good speech. This bill is about sheep companies. Think about what that term means. For me, it means a company owned or controlled by few people. The next question, then, is: What does "few" mean in this context? How many can there be? Well, it's probably more than one in any case, maybe two, four, or could it be ten people? Well, ten sounds a little more than a few. Three to four feels spontaneously a little more relevant. This leads us to the conclusion that few companies could be companies with up to perhaps four partners. It feels pretty reasonable, doesn't it? It is also the limit laid down by the original legislation on sheep companies in order to be subject to the special rules for the taxation of the profits of those companies. It says that if a maximum of four people together own more than half of the company's shares, they can be subject to the rules of the few-person company, the so-called 3:12 rules. These are the rules we are talking about right now. If you stick to this definition, the legislation is quite coherent, in a reasonable way. It follows the basic definition of which entrepreneurs should be covered by the legislation. We like that order of Swedish democrats. A yes should be a yes. A no should be a no. The words must mean something – otherwise we end up wrong, which is exactly what the government has done in this bill. The Government wants to draft a law that allows a company with several thousand shareholders to be subject to legislation that was originally intended for real small companies with a maximum of four partners that have a controlling share of ownership together. The government wants to be able to mean 3 000 or even more. There's no limit. It is no wonder that entrepreneurs must invest more and more of their operational time and money in hiring lawyers and others to interpret legal texts and try to understand how rules might affect their activities as well as how entrepreneurs' own taxes should be calculated. This is just too much. The 3:12 rules impose limitations on how the mix of wages and profits can be taxed in the Incomes Act service and capital respectively. The reason why this creates such enormous problems is that the Swedish Jante Act is reminded of the socialist government as soon as someone succeeds in their entrepreneurship. The proposed amendments to the 3:12 rules are based on a judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court, which, in a dispute between a large audit firm and the Skatteverket, ruled in favour of the company by not accepting that the employees' shareholding in the company in which they are employed would lead to their being subject to the 3:12 rules. The Court considers that their dividends from the company can instead be taxed in the usual way as income from capital, as if they were shares of any company. This is clearly in the eyes of the government's anti-business ministers. The technology used to bring these companies' giants into the concept is to define all the shareholders of the company or its subsidiaries as a person. That is right, you heard correctly: 3 000 people are defined in the present case as a partner. Simsalabim, so is a large company a small few company in Sweden. The same method is already used to lump together family members and relatives of a person– it is called the bunting rule. This, too, is a grotesque disadvantage in the legislation that creates inconsistencies and difficult to understand rules. All of this is countering a good business environment. Mr President, I would like to The 3:12 rules have been distorted into a brake on entrepreneurship by this type of completely de facto legislation. That is not acceptable, and the legislation must be re-established. We cannot in the Swedish Parliament pass laws that discourage entrepreneurship. It is not sustainable for the economic development of Sweden. This whole complex of rules needs to be re-established, and we believe that the only reasonable way to resolve the problem of trixing between income law service and capital is to move towards the harmonisation of tax levels for these income categories. We must not create such laws if we want some form of legal certainty, credibility and consistency in Swedish legislation. We must build regulations to make it easier for companies and entrepreneurs to operate in Sweden. It is about securing job growth and thus the very basis for the Swedish economy. We have therefore chosen to call for a rejection of the government proposal. Mr President, I would like to For the improbable event, see that our reservation does not win over in this House, we will vote for the Alliance's reservation 2. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-776	Mr President, I would like to The bill we are now discussing is based on a judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court, delivered on 6 February 2017. According to the Government, the bill is to prevent the possibility of circumventing the 3:12 rules according to the construction involved in this judgment. This is easily perceived as not completely permeable. To be honest, this is also the case for a replacement in the Committee on Taxation. And so it is safe even for lots of entrepreneurs in our fine elongated country. Sweden's business community, and the companies that make up the same, are the foundation of our country's prosperity. How taxation is to take place and how it is to be distributed between, for example, higher taxed wage income and lower taxed capital gains or dividends on shares is determined by the mysterious 3:12 rules. Following this judgment, in the case of a company with thousands of employees, the joint-owners may not in some cases be classified as sheep's company and thus be able to obtain lower tax rates. The government's bill now expands who should be classified as a pet company. These rules affect a great many small and medium-sized enterprises – it is companies that create four out of five jobs in Sweden. The Alliance in the Tax Committee has stated on several occasions that the government's proposals cannot be regarded as having carried out the necessary impact assessment to implement proposals. What is proposed in the proposal here today has not been sufficiently analysed either. The regulatory council says that the impact assessment is inadequate. The Government's proposal also lacks an analysis of what further effects the bill may have. It is serious that such an analysis has not been carried out by the government, in particular with regard to the 3:12 rules, which are complex and affect many companies. Long-term and predictable rules are crucial for the competitiveness of companies. This is particularly true in the area of tax legislation. Not least at a time when new industries and new forms of entrepreneurship are emerging, entrepreneurs need to know how their activities are defined. The proposed amendment risks creating difficulties for individual companies to know for themselves how to define their activities. For a larger and wider entrepreneurship in Sweden, the need for venture capital is great. Swedish state venture capital is a smaller part. According to the Swedish Agency for Growth Analysis, venture capital investments in Sweden amounted to SEK 2.3 billion in 2015, of which the five state-controlled managers accounted for approximately half a billion. This is a decrease since the previous year. Sweden needs more venture capital, not less. According to the consultation bodies, the definition of an enlarged few company creates uncertainty about the conditions for the tax situation of venture capitalists, which may affect the willingness to invest in Sweden. There is thus a risk – this is not affected by the bill – that the bill will result in a reduction in access to venture capital, which may ultimately result in fewer companies being set up. That is a serious consequence. This should therefore be carefully investigated and analysed. Mr President, I would like to Changes to the 3:12 framework need to be made with caution, clarity and a strong focus on predictability. What the government is now proposing are major changes in a regulatory framework that affects many of our small and medium-sized enterprises – it is the companies that create four out of five jobs in Sweden. The government is making this change based on a single case and the specific situation of that particular company. Such a change makes the government with a poor impact assessment. That's remarkable. An impact assessment must be carried out as soon as possible and presented to the Riksdag. Mr President, I would like to In paragraph 2, I ask for reservation 2 of the four alliance parties.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-786	Mr President, I would like to It is important for Sweden that we have people who dare to start, run and develop companies. When you sit down and think about starting a business, I think one of the most important things is that you can find capital that can support the idea you have with the company. But it is also about understanding what is expected of you as an entrepreneur. If you know that, it is easier to decide whether you want to take the risk of starting a business. In the debate you can sometimes get the feeling that it is like cutting gold to start a business. I think it is rather the opposite. You might carve wood, if possible, to try to find a grain of gold somewhere. That's a lot of work. There can be a lot of tears. It takes a lot of thought to make it work. I think that everything we can do to make it easier for a small business should be welcome. We will then come to the proposal on the definition of the so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called That's anything but making things easier. The proposal will prevent the possibility of circumventing the 3:12 rules. However, the proposal creates an entirely intransparent scope by requiring each company to ask all its shareholders up in the corporate structure to review all its holdings. The proposed amendment risks making it difficult for individual companies to know for themselves how their activities are to be defined. We had a debate a week ago in this House. I understood that we all agreed that tax legislation should be simpler and clearer. We are now doing the opposite in this proposal. The proposal has not been sufficiently analysed. The regulatory council says that the impact assessment is inadequate. The regulatory framework is complex and impenetrable and should be analysed more thoroughly. It is difficult for an entrepreneur to take the rules and apply them properly. Complex tax rules impose an increased administrative burden on companies. This hinders the core business itself and, by extension, jobs and growth. This creates confusion about the conditions for the tax situation of venture capitalists. Simplicity and clarity must always permeate new tax legislation as far as possible. Long-term and predictable rules are crucial for the competitiveness of companies. This is particularly true in the area of tax legislation. Not least at a time when new industries and new forms of entrepreneurship are emerging, entrepreneurs need to know how their activities are defined. Most of it is written in the texts from the Rule Council that we have to take on board today. Does anyone in the room, if you read them up and down and see the consequences, think that it seems to be a well thought out, good and clear proposal that will have the effects that we want? If you were a school class, I would have asked you to raise your hand. Yeah, some people think so. I think we are having the effect of reducing the number of companies, less venture capital, fewer jobs and fewer tax crowns entering the state. That is exactly the opposite of what is now expected of the government. I think the least we can do is to call for our alliance reservation to be approved. That is why I support the Alliance's reservation No 2.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-794	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. The proposal under discussion in the report concerns the adjustment of the definition of an enlarged few company. This adjustment is made in order to prevent tax evasion. The Swedish Democrats want to reject this, unlike the bourgeois parties, which instead call for a more comprehensive impact study. The extended SME definition in the Income Tax Act, IL, was introduced in the context of the 1990 tax reform. The purpose of the provision is to treat a company jointly run by several shareholders, all of whom work in the company, as a pet company. The provision provides that active shareholders shall be considered as a single person. The provision was adjusted on 1 January 2002 so that the definition of an enlarged sheep company also applies to the company in cases where the partner or a related party has been active to a significant extent in a sheep company wholly or partly owned, directly or indirectly, by the company. The adjustment was the result of two judgments of the Supreme Administrative Court and was aimed at preventing circumvention of the rules through the transfer of the business to a subsidiary. In both cases, the activities were carried out not in the parent undertaking but in wholly owned subsidiaries. The proposal proposes to adjust the definition of IL for the extension of the two-month extension in terms of assessing whether all active shareholders are to be considered as a single shareholder and thus to be considered as a "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called " so-called "so-called "so-called "so-called " so-called After the adjustment, account shall also be taken of the activities of a shareholder or a related party, on the one hand, of the company to which the investigation relates and, on the other hand, of another company owned by the former. The new provisions are proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2018. The Swedish Democrats want to reject this measure against tax evasion and, moreover, falsely claim, both in their committee motion and in their reservation, that the Law Council had views on the impact assessment of the bill. In the opinion of the Law Council of 24 August– I have read it and have it in front of me– it says that the Law Council has nothing to recall against the bill. I think the SD has confused the Law Council with the Business Council. Of course, the four bourgeois parties, like the government, are against tax evasion and tax evasion. As a matter of fact, they support the motion but, like the Rule Council, they want to raise the issue of the impact assessment. What SD mainly calls complicated and incomprehensible rules is a change to care for the tax system and prevent tax evasion. Either we are in favour of this, as we government parties, or we are against it, as you Swedish democrats. It's not harder than that. The bourgeois reservation can be summed up in one word: anxiety. There is anxiety about letting something through that may later be criticized by someone from the business community. But you don't have to be anxious. The proposal concerns co-owners of small businesses, which is why it is not deemed to have a significant impact on companies. The proposal is based on a judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court and concerns the ownership structure of one of the largest audit firms in Sweden. The government therefore does not consider it likely that the corresponding ownership structures would have been established to a significant extent and would thus be affected by the proposal. Mr President, I would like to What, then, is the alternative? To do nothing? To ignore the two judges? A government must act and, in tax matters, be one step ahead of those who want to evade the tax or drill loopholes. I don't think Anders Borg thought otherwise about this than Magdalena Andersson, so stop worrying!
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-803	Mr President, I would like to Jamal El-Haj-Haj and I will be making decisions on this matter in an hour and five minutes. So will all the other Members sitting here. The rest of the House will also be filled. We're going to vote. When you do, you want to know what the consequences of the decision are. This is what our criticism is all about. The impact assessments are inadequate. I would like to give Jamal El-Haj-Haj of the Social Democrats the opportunity to sort out some of the problems highlighted by the Rule Council. Mr Jamal-El-Haj said in his speech that it is a matter of the Business Council. I want to correct Jamal El-Haj-Haj. It's the government's rule council. It is a decision-making body under the Swedish Agency for Growth, which is an authority. The Council has criticisms of the impact assessments. At the last end, we cannot – at least not me – know what the consequences are for companies. The proposal does not only concern an individual company, even if the judgment concerns an individual undertaking. The Council of Ministers, which assesses, among other things, which companies are affected, states: It is therefore a fairly broad impact, but we do not really know what this impact will be like. Can we have clarification on how this will affect the administrative costs of businesses in the run-up to today's decision?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-807	Mr President, I would like to I have the Council's opinion in front of me. It says that the Council leaves the proposal unremembered. That's the first thing. The second is that the majority of the referral bodies that have spoken support the proposal or do not object to it, including the Swedish Tax Agency, the Department of Law at the University of Gothenburg, the Swedish Bar Association and so on. I could read more, and Jörgen Warborn can read for himself further. This is what we are talking about today. Jörgen Warborn is exaggerating this to convince me. On the question of consistency, the government has said the following, both in its previous memo before the bill and in the bill itself – I also mentioned it in my speech: The proposal concerns members of small-time companies, so it is not deemed to have any significant impact on the companies. The proposal is based on a judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court and concerns the ownership structure of one of the largest audit firms in Sweden. The government therefore does not consider it likely that the corresponding ownership structures would have been established to a significant extent and would thus be affected by the proposal. As regards the impact on the competitive environment of the undertakings concerned, non-reform of the rules would risk leading to distortive effects. That is what we are saying today. I think Jörgen Warborn is exaggerating. He believes that this will create anxiety and put entrepreneurship at a disadvantage. I do not agree with that.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-811	Mr President, I would like to I and Jamal El-Haj-Haj agree that the Law Council has no recollection. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the Rule Council. The Council has to deal with impact assessments. An impact assessment relates to eight different points. On four of these eight points, the impact assessment was rejected by the Council of Governors, which is the government's own decision-making body. There's something strange in this bill. I have read the full description that Jamal El-Haj-Haj read out. But I cannot understand from the texts what analysis the government has done after the impact assessment came to light. That is my question. I know what decision we are going to make here today, but I do not know what the consequences are. Jamal El-Haj-Haj asked what the alternative is. The alternative is what the Alliance has put forward. Our reservation is the alternative. We are moving forward with the proposal despite the fact that there is not a good impact assessment, but we want a follow-up of the proposal so that it does not have negative effects on broad groups of entrepreneurs. The regulatory council says that all industries, all the few companies, are affected. Therefore, you should take the alternative and vote in favour of the Alliance's reservation. There are several such cases. The impact assessments have been bad in many cases, especially those from the Ministry of Finance. Now there is this matter. It's gonna be like it's gonna be. Now the question is how Jamal El-Haj-Haj will work to improve the impact assessments in the future, so that we do not end up in this situation again with the next bill and proposal. What efforts will you make to influence the government to improve impact assessments?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-815	Madam President, I would like The truth is that whatever we do, whatever the case, you want an impact assessment. That's the truth. It is not just about this matter. One of your comrades has just said from the pulpit that the government is stalling and does not want to act. When the government acts, it doesn't fit either. What else needs to be analysed? It is a question of two audit firms trying to turn to tax legislation in order to reduce their tax. So we are not talking about a broad phenomenon that many have or have tried. Now this possibility is being blocked. The story's over. What else is to be analyzed?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-817	Madam President, I would like We have discussed the tax rules for small companies and the 3:12 rules in the past and several times in this House. There was previously a study that had proposals with major effects. The government referred a proposal that was significantly different with minor effects. But it was not presented. What is being discussed today is something else, namely closing a loophole after a court ruling in February this year. Now it should not be possible to tax-plan away taxes in a way that a large audit firm thought one could do. There has been a lot of discussion about tax evasion and tax evasion. Among other things, intensive work is under way. That is something we spend a lot of time on in the Committee on Taxation. It has also been a media discussion, where not least SVT has highlighted the issue in several sections of the Mission review. There have been some episodes, and there will probably be more episodes in the future. It is good that the issue has been highlighted, and it is also good that there is cooperation between our parties, within the OECD and within the EU. It is good that the government can act quickly. When such a case comes to the Supreme Administrative Court, it puts new practices that can quickly have consequences. Now, of course, we have to follow up when things happen in the outside world. If something happens in the future, we must be prepared to change the legislation so that there is no unfair competition, so that some companies can make use of creative approaches and compete in such a way. Madam President, I would like With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-822	Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago, I attended a seminar organised by the Environmental Party together with NNR. The title of the seminar was: the right basis for the right decision – Measures for better impact assessments. It was a very good seminar where the Green Party person who was in place said: As a politician, you want to keep your feet firmly on the ground before making decisions. You want to know what the results of your decision are. Here, the Rule Council, the decision-making body governed by the government, believes that we cannot really know how the proposal will affect the conditions of competition. There are criticisms in four areas. This is important for Swedish companies' ability to export. The Regulatory Council believes that this concerns all companies. What is Rasmus Ling's view of the impact of the proposal on competitive conditions?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-826	Madam President, I would like It's great that Jörgen Warborn visits the Environmental Party's seminars and events. On this issue, it is strange that there is no greater ambition and desire from the alliance parties to address the problems that arise in this area. When a court order is issued that new arrangements can be made or tax withheld in a way that has not taken place in the past, it is essential to get new legislation in place quickly. This is something that we from the red-green parties think is a bit of a waste if it should happen in the future. M an must ensure that new creative approaches are not possible. When it was discovered what the former Chairman of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise had done and his defence was that he did not think he was getting anything for the tax he paid, there were few representatives, I do not know if anyone in the House was defending him. But it is a pity that we cannot emphasise more clearly the importance of continuing to work towards new approaches. Jörgen Warborn asked me the same question he asked Jamal El-Haj-Haj just now. The question has gone through the Law Council, which has had no recollection. The question has been referred to a number of other stakeholders. It has been well prepared. We are fixing a problem, and that is why it is good that we can stick the issue in about 50 minutes.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-831	Madam President, I would like I think Rasmus Ling has misunderstood the position of the Alliance. You say we don't want to fix the problem. We have not voted down the government's proposal regarding the bill itself, but we have a reservation that says that the government will return with a fully valid impact statement by mid 2019. Then we can see if the legislation has such great consequences and if so, take a look. Rasmus Ling brought up the Law Council again. It is true that the Law Council has no recollection. The Council is looking at the actual legal context. But the Council is looking at the consequences for companies. It's two different organs. The Council works according to a template, a regulation. It is therefore not a choice to follow the Rule Council or not. There should always be an adequate impact statement. It is remarkable that 36% of the impact assessments in the last year were approved. In what other area of society would we accept that only about 30% are approved? It can't be like that. Now we're where we are. I would like to ask the same questions to Rasmus Ling as I also did to Jamal El-Haj-Haj. How will Rasmus Ling work in the future so as not to end up in this situation again without proper impact descriptions? You have direct contacts with the government parties and your party, the Green Party. How will you make it possible to get better regulation on the table in this House before we take decisions so that we know how decisions affect businesses and hence those who create jobs?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-835	Madam President, I would like We shall, of course, have adequate bases when making decisions in this House. I think we have that in this case. There is in the document a developed impact assessment of what problem we are going to fix and what consequences it will have. It is not just a matter of following up on the legislation we have been legislating after a year. It may sometimes be justified to do so, but above all we need to keep track of the problems that arise gradually and what new legislation is needed to tackle the problems and challenges that come. We do this all the time in all areas, and of course we must continue to do so. Whether there is a notice or not, the government is monitoring the development of conditions for companies and the important problem area of tax evasion and avoidance. We will continue to put a great deal of emphasis on this.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-838	Madam President, I would like Long-term forecasts suggest that the public old-age pension scheme will not deliver for my generation, the 80s. Many of the younger generation are in danger of becoming tomorrow's poor pensioners. It was therefore possible for a long time to save private money for their pension – until the government abolished the possibility of saving private money. Reference was made to the newly created investment savings account, and many quite rightly began to save there instead. After that, the tax on the said investment savings account has not only been increased once, but twice. It is not only a penalty tax on small savers but also creates great uncertainty. If you can increase the tax twice in a short time, why not three or four times? There is a little contemptuous talk about that it only corresponds to si or so many chip bags and that you just have to be able to afford it, but then you miss the whole point of this savings form. If you remove the possibility of saving your pension privately and instead refer to this form of savings, you must of course analyse a tax increase based on a fully professional life. With perfectly normal and reasonable assumptions about salary, savings ratio and return, the effect on the individual small savers is a six-digit tax increase in SEK. For those who earn a little more, earn normally but live a little more sparingly and have a higher savings rate or just invest sensibly and get a good and stable return, the tax will of course be higher. We therefore have a situation in which the public old-age pension scheme will not deliver. Today's pensioners know it all too well, but to be honest, tomorrow's pensioners are the ones I am most worried about. The possibility of private reconnaissance has been abolished, and all of the nearly 1 million Swedes who have found another way of saving are now choosing to impose an extra penalty tax. If you're young and you don't want to be a poor pensioner, how on earth should you behave? Why the government chooses to go forward with this kind of punitive taxation of small savers is incomprehensible. Even more incomprehensible is the fact that the Swedish Democrats alone have reserved for the proposal. During this afternoon's vote, only the Swedish Democrats' parliamentary group will vote no. We note that this will not be enough and that, unfortunately, the proposal will go through. The Alliance has every opportunity in the world to vote against the proposal together with us and thus form a majority to stop it. But you have chosen total walk over. Or perhaps it is not completely incomprehensible, because that is in fact exactly how we have been acting for most of this term of office. They have laid flat and given the government carte blanche. The husband of toothless and impotent opposition has never been seen. The question is whether one can even regard the parties of the Alliance as opposition parties and whether it would not be more correct to regard them as part of the government base. Madam President, I would like This, of course, will not be admitted. It will argue that there is indeed respect for the rules, for order and order in the budgetary process, for established practice and so on. That reasoning does not hold up. It is simply a way of hiding because you are too cowardly to pursue a tough opposition policy. It is not the opposition's responsibility to help the government enforce bad policies. It is the task of the government to gather a majority for its policy in order to get it through the House. In almost all other comparable countries, the government base collects a majority for its budgetary policy. Otherwise you are or cannot even form a government in the first place. It's perfectly normal and reasonable. There is no reason why Sweden should have a practice that says that a minority government, no matter how small, should always be able to get through its economic policy and that the opposition must lie flat. It is not reasonable, and the Swedish democrats will not respect such a practice. It will be argued that it respects regulations and order and it will accuse me and us of doing the opposite. I don't buy it because it's not about it. It's about you being cowards. It's as simple as that. I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-852	Madam President, I would like Saving for future expenses is in every way good. That is something we should not only say but also ensure good conditions so that people feel that saving is worth it. That is why the government's proposal to increase taxation on savings money sends the wrong signal. The investment savings account, which was introduced during the time of the Alliance, has become the small savers' own people's movement, where everything from the student who is working extra to the pensioner who wants to put away to the grandchildren invests their savings. It's the present-day Svensson saving. Madam President, I would like The signal the government is now sending is that it will pay less to save. This is, to say the least, a poorly timed message to Swedish small savers because the Swedes have never been so heavily borrowed before in history. It is a dangerous path to walk that can ultimately make the economy, both private and public, more sensitive to a shift in economic activity. We cannot blame pension savers who feel confused and uncertain about where they should actually invest the money to get the best pension possible. It should be a matter of course for governments, regardless of colour and composition, to offer stability and long-term rules of play. Madam President, I would like The fiscal framework is the single most important economic reform implemented in Sweden in recent decades. The stability we enjoy today provides better conditions for entrepreneurs, provides opportunities for more jobs, provides more money in our wallets and reduces anxiety in a turbulent world. The fact that we have been able to agree in broad agreement on reforms that have given our country security and increased prosperity when the outside world is shaken is something for which we should be fundamentally grateful, regardless of party affiliation. The former Head of Administration of the Committee on Finance, Ove Nilsson, led a group of experts to draw up guidelines for the state budget process, which have been in force since 1996. During a hearing here in Parliament that I attended, he expressed what it looked like before the current process became a reality. I will quote Ove Nilsson about what it was like at the time when we did not have a framework: The result was not predictable– it was a lack of transparency... There was no long-term perspective. The process started over every year. It was not governed by objectives or guidelines. The very way of making decisions – the decision on each grant one by one – led to a weakening of public finances. ..................................................... I think that this quotation clearly demonstrates the need to have a framework and to relate to it. The foundation is very simple. All state expenditure and revenue shall be decided on in one whole, with a single club team here in the Swedish Parliament, in order to ensure that proposed expenditure is financed. Madam President, I would like None of us should want to have the situation back before we got the fiscal framework – a time of running budget deficits and a growing public debt, a time when plus and minus did not have to go together and occasionally did not. In the budgetary process – the fiscal framework – and the application we have agreed on, the ban on reservations in the Committee on Taxation is a key element. When we have dealt with the investment savings account in the Tax Committee, the Swedish Democrats have ignored the requirement that the budget should be in balance. Short-term political points should not take precedence over stability in the economy. The Center Party is the only party that has always defended and adhered to legislation and the fiscal framework in both government and opposition positions. The rules of the game that have been laid down must be above day-to-day politics and must not be shaken in their foundations. Madam President, I would like On the side of the alliance parties, we have put forward a special opinion in the Tax Committee on the issue of increased tax on investment savings accounts and capital insurance. We have a reservation ban for a clear reason. We simply cannot find ourselves in a situation where tax issues are being cut out of the framework. This applies regardless of whether it is tax increases or reductions. It is well known where the alliance parties stand on this issue. The Center Party has repeatedly criticised the tax increase at ISK. We say no in our budget motion, as do the other alliance parties. But once again: future elections and day-to-day policy must not stand in the way of stability in state finances. Basically, it is about confidence in the Swedish economy. The Center Party does not intend to contribute to disrupting this confidence.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-866	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved. Today we are debating the government's proposal for increased taxation on investment savings accounts and capital insurance. Sweden today has a government that is making important investments both for the future and for the development of the country right now. This means that the budget that the report is part of funding spends EUR 40 billion on paying off public debt, which results in us having the lowest public debt since 1977, that is, the year I was born, when Elvis was still alive. This is what the government is doing to insure us in the face of future recession – a stable policy for the future as well. I have to mention some of the reforms that the 40 billion are supposed to fund, namely people at work. In Sweden, unemployment is falling thanks to a government that prioritises work before tax cuts. More people in work provide better opportunities for savings for more people and in the long term also affect pensions. But we still have unemployed in this country, while we have companies that want to hire. That's why the government is investing in education, so that more people will have a job to go to. Everyone who can work should work, with government policy. The budget also includes reforms such as reductions in pensioner's tax, increases in housing allowances and increases in child benefits, not to mention welfare billions. Madam President, I would like The proposal has, of course, been referred, and some questions and criticism have been raised. During my time in Parliament, I never think I have seen a report that has only been hailed. The most vocal critics come mainly from the opposition, which I mean takes a strong word if you put it against what is in the referee. After reading these, I can note that recurring words there are moderate influences and less effect. At the end of 2016, there were just under 2 million people with an investment savings account, with a total capital base of approximately SEK 546 billion. An increase in flat income of 0.5 percentage points would mean an average tax increase of approximately SEK 18 per person per month, on average. Data on the capital base of an investment savings account at individual level show that it is mainly concentrated on those with a higher income. Another part of the criticism has been about what happens to those who provide the form of savings. There, developments have caught up with the accident ravens. When I read Swedish yesterday, I noted that there was some example of a small hack, but most show that there are more people who choose to start a saving. For the banks mentioned in the article, the steady flow before the announcement of the increase was about 4 500 per week. The following week it had increased to 7,000. If the banks' thank-you card for this is going to go to the government or the opposition, I leave it unsaid. Madam President, I would like I would like to mention briefly that these revenues are to be regarded as stable for public finances, but they also have a distributional effect. This is also the assessment of the Swedish Tax Agency. The proposal mainly affects those with a high income, both in the investment savings account part and in the capital insurance part. In terms of the population as a whole, the capital base is estimated to be on average greater in men than in women. The impact of the distribution policy rests, in particular, on the reforms financed, including the reduction of pensioner's tax. To illustrate, it could be said that men with higher incomes can contribute to the removal of pensioner's tax on women with low pensions. Most importantly, however, it is to provide a basis for reforms that lead to more in-work, more growing companies and reinforcements for economically vulnerable people. Finally, I would also like to confirm that this continues to be a favourable form of savings.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-878	Madam President, I would like It was an interesting comparison at the end of Hannah Bergstedt's speech that wealthy men can finance tax cuts for poor older women. That's how you can see it, of course. In the Swedish Democrats' budget, we have proposed a completely abolished pensioner's tax. We have not done as the Social Democrats are coming a third, but we have completely abolished the pensioner's tax. We have also said no to the tax increase proposed in this report. You can actually do both things. It depends on how one prioritises. Madam President, I would like As I was speaking, the public old-age pension system will not deliver – not for the 80s, not for the 90s and certainly not for those who follow. My own generation can expect less than half of its final salary in retirement. A lot of people chose to save private for their pension during the time that they could do so, because the public is not able to deliver. This possibility abolished this government, and reference was made to the investment savings account. Of course, long-term investment, for example in retirement, must be characterised by long-term and predictable conditions. My question is therefore: what is your advice to all pensioners of tomorrow? The public pension system will not deliver. You have abolished the possibility of saving private money. Now you should also tax those who save for their pension in the way you yourself have referred them to. What kind of signals does it send?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-884	Madam President, I would like Anyone who uses the word "criminal taxation" in this context will have to bear in mind that it is watered down, given that the median account has 25 000 crowns. This means that for more than half there will be a tax increase of less than SEK 20 per year. When we hear the Swedish Democrats talking about criminal taxation from now on, it will appear in a certain light. And I can only say that I do not agree that this can be seen in this way. For those who are concerned about current pensioners, the reforms in this budget relating to increased housing allowances and reduced pensioner's tax should be of great interest. It is interesting that Oscar Sjöstedt still highlights this. It must be the paleness of reflection. The Swedish democrats have been a supporter of ensuring that these large tax injustices between pensioners and workers have been introduced. For those who are worried about future pensioners, reforms for more people in work are of the utmost importance. Of course, the person who should be able to save must also have something to save. Those who are really weak – if we are to talk about the poor pensioners – are far from the labour market or work part-time in low-wage jobs and do not have to worry about this proposal. They can't afford savings. It is for these people that we need to make sure to raise the standard of living. Women in the welfare sector need the welfare billions. They need health and safety efforts and also enhanced protection in the labour market. And it is not something that the Swedish democrats have made themselves known to highlight.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-891	Madam President, I would like The fact that pensioners are outside the labour market is quite natural. It's hardly a problem either. One can make a bit of fun that in the individual case there is only so little money per year. But just as I did in my speech, this should be seen as long-term savings. This applies to everyone who sees this as part of their pension savings. Then you have to look at this all over the working life. Then you have an interest-on-interest effect, and it becomes quite tangible. With perfectly normal assumptions about salary, how much you save from your salary and what return you can achieve, this tax increase will be six figures in SEK. I shall dwell a little more on the income gap and distribution aspects. It is widely known and obvious that when the Social Democrats see income gaps, they see an injustice. And the answer to this injustice is always to attack those considered rich, that is, to fight wealth. If everyone is equally poor, there is no injustice, and then society is very fair. I think that is the wrong way to go and that it is better to fight poverty than to fight wealth. Let me be specific: if you really feel the need to frame those who have a little bigger savings, could you, on the part of the Social Democrats, think of a model in terms of the investment savings account and the taxation of that which, for example, says that the first SEK 100 000 is exempt from taxation and that there is tax in addition? If you are even more ambitious, you can exclude an average annual salary so that all young households and also older people can have the opportunity to build up a buffer before they are taxed. Could it be a way forward?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-895	Madam President, I would like Oscar Sjöstedt talks about individual cases. However, I noted in my previous speech that there is an increase of less than SEK 20 per year for more than half of those who have this saving. That is what Oscar Sjöstedt has to say in this context. Long-term is to ensure that people have the opportunity to save, Oscar Sjöstedt. This is done by investing in people getting into work. That is what this government is doing through a EUR 40 billion reform space. We know that the absolute best way to ensure that people have the ability to fend for themselves throughout their lives, even during the time they are pensioners, is that they actually have the opportunity to work. That is why it is important, as I said earlier in my speech, that everyone who can work should also be able to work. The most powerful signals sent out in this report are that the Swedish Democrats do not passively intend to support a moderate-led government. But if we are to talk about strong signals, I also note that the signals that we see from the market when it comes to savings, after the government has presented its proposals, are that the number of accounts in this particular form of savings is increasing, that is, the one that the Swedish democrats are attacking so hard and calling a penalty. Does Oscar Sjöstedt mean that people themselves do not have the sense to understand that this is a bad form of savings, or is it actually the case that they have established that they will be able to have good savings even with a tax increase of 0.25%?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-899	Madam President, I would like The government is working hard on female small savers. With a tax-surgical precision, the government continues to go against Sweden's many small savers – our country's folk saver. The government does not want Swedes to save. In no other way can the signal be seen from this proposal, namely that, from the end of the year, the taxation of long-term savings such as investment savings accounts and capital insurance should be increased. Madam President, I would like This is a really bad policy for those who are able to take responsibility by saving a little from time to time. It is fundamentally right and entirely sensible to prepare the household economy for future pressures. That even more – there are now just over 2 million small savers – should be taxed because they are doing the right thing sending the wrong signals. Instead, we should encourage even more people to do even more right. The fact that criticism is taken very lightly, we now heard clearly from the speaker's chair. I do not know if anyone other than the former Member of Parliament or Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson is defending the eight proposals. Otherwise, there should be no one. This sends the wrong message, Madam President. This risks increasing the housing of Swedish households. One of the arguments put forward is that this has a positive impact on equality, and with regard to that argument, the government really has to take on board. All academic research shows that it is generally women who seek savings with less risk, and these savings are adapted precisely to those who want less risk. Most of these savers are ordinary parents of young children. It is younger people, 30 - 40 years of age, who are trying a little bit. It is not at all as described by the Red-Green Government, i.e. that it is the wealthy men – the wealthy – who collect in the barns of this type of saving form. It's not like that at all. The whole idea of these savings forms is that it should be low risk. They should be simple and easy to understand. They should include many and be inclusive. Having long-term, clear rules for saving is as important as having long-term, clear rules for how we relate to each other in order to have a stable Swedish future. To go in with the attitude that you should let punitive tax on young female savers and ordinary families with young children is pretty tough in a situation where things are going well for Sweden given the international boom. We believe that the Red-Green and Social Democrats are hitting those who are trying a little bit – those who are preparing the household economy for pressures in tougher times. The International Monetary Fund, the IMF, recently stated that Swedes want order in their finances. Swedes also like to save and have increased their savings more than any other country in the OECD after the financial crisis. These are clearly important and good signals, but what kind of signals does the government send? It says, "No, no, you're not going on with this! Instead of doing the exact opposite and making it easier for more people to make an effort a little more. Saving for the future is important, Madam President. Saving requires stable, long-term and beneficial – attractive – tax rules for more people to make an effort to do the right thing. We therefore reject the government's plans to do this. For us, any tax increases that directly hit savings, to make an effort or to try to contribute to making the business environment somewhat better and stronger in Sweden are bad tax increases. This is a terrible proposal, Madam President. Long-term and orderly management applies to the rules of the Swedish economic policy, but this also applies, of course, to the part of the framework that affects Sweden's finances. Long-term considerations must be taken into account, not only in the content of policy, but also, of course, in its forms of work. We are therefore very concerned when not all parties relate to the parliament's common regulatory framework – especially in terms of budgetary practice and the Swedish fiscal framework. This framework has served Sweden well for a long time. It's very easy to forget. At a time when the international boom is making the Swedish export industry flourish, it is easy to forget that the fiscal framework came about in a time of heavy fiscal crisis in Sweden, which is a small, export-dependent country and heavily dependent on its surrounding world. Now this is being taken lightly. You deviate from it and call it easy practice or say you don't have to relate to it. However, it is exactly the opposite. It is in times when Sweden is doing well that we should work to make it even better for the future, as we know that it will not go as well. It is then, if at some point, that we in here have a responsibility as elected representatives to ensure that practices, rules and approaches regarding how we work m ed Swedish economy are stable, clear and long-term. I don't want that to happen. We're not going to blur that. No short-term political points can benefit the Swedish economy in the long term. We benefit from taking a serious responsibility, because we are a small and highly export-dependent country that has a huge need to remain stable regardless of recession or economic boom.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-911	Madam President, I would like It was a fiery speech for women's savings! I can only say that the reality has already caught up with the concern that savings will be reduced, given that savings increased after the government had presented its proposal. This government believes that the best way to ensure that people have the opportunity to save is to ensure that they can work, and unemployment is really something I think deserves some attention in this House. With this government, 150 000 more people are employed. We have the highest employment rate in the EU in the 20-64 age group, and we have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years. The fact that people have a job to go to means that they have a pension when they become pensioners in the future, and that also means that they have the possibility of saving. It is a bit interesting to hear Cecilia Widegren committed to women, because it is also the case that those who cannot afford to save on investment savings are often women. That is what we must ensure that we finance. We need to improve the conditions for these women to get to work – and to continue to have a long working life with the help of efforts in the field of health and safety at work. You can think somewhere about what you mean by small savers. Half of all savers have less than 100,000 saved assets, and there cannot be any significant tax increases with the still very favourable savings reform. Shouldn't we tax capital at all? Part of the reason we have experienced growing gaps in Sweden is that we have reduced taxation on capital relative to labour.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-915	Madam President, I would like You can choose to see reality as it is, or you can select certain parts of reality. The Social Democrats just selected certain parts. We from the Moderates and the Alliance see that it takes too long to enter the labour market. It takes over nine years for those who have foreign origin. Young people are still outside the labour market because they lack adequate grades and skills from primary and secondary schools. That part chose the Social Democrats not to see. So there is still an enormous amount of work to be done. Now they send out the signal that the Red-Green Government and the Social Democrats want to get to the one who tries a little bit and makes it a little extra – who works a little extra, further educates or saves. This is a very clear signal to small savers in this case. Many of them are women. All research attests that it is women who choose this type of form of savings, which is simpler, lighter and at lower risk. Now this government, with tax-surgical precision, wants to meet – in very broad groups. That is regrettable, Madam President. It is equally regrettable, Madam President, that the parties of the government – including the Social Democrats – have not at all stood up for the parliament's economic and fiscal framework. The Social Democrats and the other party that is part of the government have not in every situation, when it has been a bit exciting, made sure to stick to the economic policy framework – by 2013 at the latest. My question to the Member of Parliament is therefore: will the Social Democrats stand up for the fiscal framework and practice at all times, from today and far into the future?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-920	Madam President, I would like Initially, I have to ask myself whether Cecilia Widegren does not know that it is men – not women – who possess most of the capital. The question is whether you use the map or look at the terrain. When it comes to penalties for getting people to work, I remember a government that made sure to punish those who were unemployed with deteriorating conditions in insurance systems. The government did this because it thought it would lead to work. We can well say, Madam President, that it was not very successful. The opposition is competing in tax cuts. I do not really understand how to put this together in making the big investments that are needed precisely to get more people to work. It is because we know that those who are far from the labour market need training in order to be able to take the job vacancies. It also needs Swedish companies, which actually require staff. This means that we need to use much of our scope for reform to ensure that people get to work. This proposal is part of the financing of it. Cecilia Widegren is concerned about female small savers. But if they have a job to go to, they will have a better pension, and in the end it will also mean that they can have their own savings. If that is what you are concerned about, the government's reform of education and training for jobs is of course very important.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-925	Madam President, I would like It is very surprising that, on behalf of the government in this House, Mrs Bergstedt cannot stand up strongly and clearly for the fiscal framework. That was my only specific question to the Member of Parliament. During the eight years of the alliance government, we put more than 300 000 more people into work, despite a financial crisis in Sweden in 2008, which caused us to face tough challenges. Despite this crisis, we occupied 300 000 more. It is important that it pays to make a little effort. It will pay to save, to work a little more and to continue to train. But in Sweden of the Social Democrats, nurses and teachers are now becoming high income recipients. In Sweden of the Social Democrats you should tax small savers a couple of times over. It is about 2 million people who are making a little more effort. What signals does the current government send to these people? They make a little more effort, take a little more responsibility and prepare the household economy for tougher efforts. They are preparing that Sweden will not always be in an international boom, but can also end up in a recession. We were not told about this. We did not get an answer to this. The most tragic of all was that the Social Democrats chose to fit in with the extremely important issue of the long-term sustainability of Sweden's economy and the importance of all political parties standing up for the economic framework. This is true both in opposition and in majority, but it is clear that it is failing depending on the position in which you are in. I am sorry, Madam President.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-932	Madam President, I would like This is a terrible proposal, said Mr Widegren at the end of his speech, and I can only agree. I think there were quite a few good arguments that came up in that speech, and I think we are quite united. That's about how I thought it would sound from the Moderates' side, but that doesn't change my attitude at all. I simply do not think that this argument is valid. The December agreement remains, if not on paper, at least in reality. On no less than twelve occasions – twelve, nota bene – during this term of office, we have in various votes given the Moderates and the Alliance the opportunity to remove the government. At every opportunity, the Moderates and their colleagues are backed up. You are not a credible opposition if you avoid pursuing your own policy and hide behind a 20-year-old practice. How well does this rhyme with your newly elected party leader's promise or statement to pursue his policy right into the tile, literally? There is only one explanation: you are cowards. Why, why, do the Moderates view it as their primary task to help the government bring about harmful policies?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-937	Madam President, I would like Any tax increases that strike against those who are trying, who are working a little extra, who save, invest or further educate themselves, are tax increases that the Moderates and alliance parties do not want to see. We will do everything we can to ensure that there is another government that runs a different policy and gets through another budget so that Sweden gets growth power and can work forward again. But the foundation for us and for stability is that we also know that Sweden is a small, strong export-dependent country that is incredibly dependent on what is happening in our close environment and environment – hence the importance of being able to stand stable and long-term and know what the rules of the game are today and tomorrow and what the rules were yesterday. For us, the fiscal framework is therefore a crucial budgetary rule for how we should be involved in strengthening Sweden's finances in the long term. For us, opting out is not a game rule. I do not know what it was like when Oscar Sjöstedt took his driver's license, if he then chose to remove some of the rules that applied. Or when playing social games with children, should you choose some other rules for the moment just because it benefits a short-term? Madam President, I would like Game rules are there to be held and carry into the future. This is a practice for which we have to take responsibility and which has existed in Parliament since 1996. We can change it, but then there should be eight parties in the room sitting down and changing this practice. Bad policy's going in the trash. Of course, bad governments should not be re-elected, but we should change governments and get an alliance government in place. This requires a long-term approach, about politics and the rules of the game as well as about how we relate to each other in Sweden's highest decision-making bodies.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-942	Madam President, I would like As far as the fiscal framework is concerned, I am entirely in favour of taking decisions on the budget at the same time – all spending frameworks, all 27 areas of expenditure, all revenue in one and the same decision. That's not what I'm questioning. We agree on the substance; it is only the forms we do not agree on. The government has chosen to put forward the harmful proposal in a specific proposal, that is to say: it will be voted on. I thought it would happen just now, but it will be reasonable tomorrow. That means you have every opportunity in the world to press the red button. I assume you will press the yellow button and refrain from taking part in the decision. But you have every opportunity in the world to press the red no button and stop the proposal tomorrow. The response I received just now and received from other alliance representatives is: let it pass. We might win the next election, and then we can remove it. That logic doesn't hold. Then you should change the savings form a third time. Even if it is in the right direction, it is a source of uncertainty that small savers feel. Long-term savings must be characterised by long-term and predictable rules of play. They won't change all the time. We've been in. I myself sat on a parliamentary committee and discussed the whole framework. That's a really interesting question. I don't think we'll figure it out in a two-minute line shift. But my entry into it is very simple. Sweden stands out in this context and is unique with enormous protection for minority governments. I think that's wrong. It is the task of the government to bring together a majority for its policies and budgetary policies to ensure that they go through. It's not my job or that of the Moderates.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-947	Madam President, I would like That the S verige democrats are standing here in S v erige's highest decision-making body and try to change the rules of the game a little as they suit them we have been through before. Last was 2013, when they took some short-term points and broke things out of the stable economic and fiscal framework. I do not believe that the Swedish Democrats have much interest in the long-term and stability of the rules of the game. It should of course benefit them at each individual occasion so that they can play a little bit with the different forms. We are extremely clear on the matter. This is bad policy. We're just as clear in shape. We will have a long-term approach to managing Sweden's economy. The small economy is extremely dependent on what is happening in the near world, hence a stability that lasts even the days when there is no flourishing international boom. Remember that the framework came from having a tough financial crisis that made us sit down to get it in place! Perhaps at the time we were not eight parties in the Swedish Parliament. However, we, who are elected here today, all have a responsibility to ensure that we manage a practice and bear it for the future. So important is Sweden's economy in the long term. So important is that we have stable long-term rules of play that we can maintain. I think that we should each and every one of us as Members should bear that responsibility here and now, but also tomorrow. It's not about short-term political points or replaying and changing the playing field. I think that you should neither do that when you take your driver's license or play with your children, and above all not when you try to keep the state finances in order. We all bear a long-term responsibility for that.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-953	Madam President, I would like This matter, if taxation on investment savings accounts, is part of the budget bill. We set the framework last week, and they were clubbed in the Chamber. This is part of an income side that we decide on. This is a modest tax increase on ISK accounts, investment savings accounts. It's a form of savings that's been around for a few years and become very popular. It has become so because it has very good conditions. It will continue to have that with the changes that are being made and described as very draconian. They would increase the housing of households and the like, as we have heard earlier in the debate. These are very marginal changes that are being made. For a normal saver who has an ISK account, it is about some dime or pair of dimes a month. It is often less than what can distinguish if you have funds as investments. There may be a greater difference in the contribution to those funds than this change is now about. One should also know that such a flat-rate taxation we have on this replaces the capital gains tax that has otherwise existed on shares and funds. It's another form that's been around. Especially when the stock exchange is going well and the government loan rate is so low, it is a very favourable form of saving. Madam President, I would like The ta is far from just about the issue itself. It is also a bigger question of the regulatory framework for how decisions are taken in this House, of having a single budgetary process and of having a stable fiscal framework. There has been such an agreement ever since 1996. Tax issues are included in the first steps of the budget, in the framework decision. We decide income and expenses at the same time. Income over a business cycle shall be higher than expenditure. In the past, we have had a 1% surplus target. We'll lower it from 2019 to a third of a percent. If there is a recession, one should be able to justify that one does not reach the surplus target. We should not have a system whereby tax increases can be removed afterwards and in that way budget deficits. We rarely like to raise taxes. We are doing this because what we are going to finance together requires funding. If we abandon this principle, we will soon have structural deficits in this country as we did in the 90s crisis. It's not something the Green Party wants us to end up in. There is no long-term or economic sustainability in it.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-959	Madam President, I would like This issue has been discussed earlier in this House. I remember that a few weeks ago my party leader Jonas Sjöstedt was in the party leader debate talking about ISK accounts. One thing that I and many others remember is a question he received from the party leader of the Center Party, Annie Lööf, about the savings account and how it affects low income earners. The answer that Jonas gave was fantastic. I would therefore urge you all to go in and look at the answer on the Left Party website. For those who have not seen it, in my speech I will try to explain exactly what Jonas was into. It is important to understand that, because that debate ended on that day. Madam President, I would like I will begin by referring to the French economist Thomas Piketty from an article published on 21 November 2017. He says: "D a gleaming inequality in the Western world is primarily an effect of increasing capital, not wages, of the most wealthy – i.e., capital growth is higher than socio-economic growth and real wage development in recent years. The richest in Swedish society, as in most other countries, today mainly earns their wealth through real estate, inheritance and shares, in nte wages. A fair and progressive tax system should therefore b etrate the former, i.e. capital, to a greater extent than the latter, i.e. wages. Madam President, I would like It is important what life it became on the right and, for example, S vensk N häringsliv due to an extremely modest increase in the taxation of capital, a tax rate of as much as SEK 37 for the average saver. It goes to our mutual treasury. However, I have never heard them whining about banks' shameless management fees, fund fees, commissions and depository fees, which even the average saver will not benefit when it goes straight into the banker's own pocket. I thought the right was interested in wallet issues. Madam President, I would like Another person who captures the prevailing capitalist logic is economist Stefan de Vylder in Svenska Dagbladet. The Vylder opposes the formulation of problems which the bourgeoisie often uses: that the tax burden is too high in Sweden. He notes that during the 2000s Sweden has abolished a number of taxes, such as inheritance tax, property tax and property tax. What these had in common was that they taxed assets, not labour, and, moreover, were highly progressive when they were mainly concerned with relatively wealthy groups. De Vylder lands in the conclusion that while it is difficult to become rich in labour in Sweden because of the high taxes on gainful employment, it is free to be rich with the abolition of all taxes on assets and wealth. The Left Party would rather reintroduce inheritance tax, property tax and property tax, but unfortunately we have not been able to hear these proposals. At the same time, we are lowering the tax on employees and pensioners in this draft budget. Unlike what the bourgeoisie claims, the ISK tax will primarily concern the rich who use their assets to accumulate even more capital. Madam President, I would like Today I was happy when I read Svenska Dagbladet. They report that more have opened ISK accounts despite the announced tax increase and that there are no indications that the number will decrease. This is good news, because it means more money for the treasury to build our common welfare. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-966	Madam President, I would like I will be brief, because my arguments have been well advanced in the past by my alliance friends here from the speaker's seat. Let me just briefly show you what this is all about. What tax system do we want, and what society do we want? How's that gonna work? Today the Swedes are heavily leveraged. There are concerns that are often raised in different ways, not least when we now see the housing market and the price development that is taking place there. The question is: do we want the Swedes to borrow more money and save less money, or do we want it the other way around? Do we want them to borrow less and save more money while, as the Liberals want, we are stepping down on the interest deduction? I want it just like that: you should be able to work hard, you should be able to educate yourself and you should be able to save money. Of course, it is not decisive if we raise or lower this tax, but it is part of the whole that affects how people behave. That is what taxes do all the time, and that is what we are trying to achieve with taxes. It concerns environmental taxes, taxes on cigarettes and taxes on everything else. We're trying to influence behavior. It is not just about getting money into the state budget but also about influencing behaviour. All taxes affect more or less such things. This also applies to the tax on savings. If you raise it, it will of course be less savings in the longer term. It is not complicated at all, and you do not need to have attended economic education to understand it. We are therefore opposed to raising this tax. In the Liberals' budget, we even have a tax cut in investment savings accounts to make it pay better to train, pay better to work hard and pay better to save.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-971	Madam President, I would like I would like to go back to last week's debate, but also to the debate that we have had today, in which I have tried to argue with emphasicity that our government is raising taxes without thinking about consequences. It is more the rule than the exception that the government raises a tax, and if you find a way to do so, you do. Since we began to debate today, our Finance Minister has had a quiet afternoon. She's come up with a new treasure. It is a tax to be paid when moving abroad. This means that 64 taxes have been introduced, amended or increased during this term of office. I think it shows that it is not an exception that the government finds new taxes, but it is a rule. You can think about whose money it is. The government beats its chest and says that we have a reform space of 40 billion next year. At this point, the government is giving the signal to punish those who save. Anyone who tries to look to their future and put away a little bit is the one that the government thinks is doing wrong. How else are we going to interpret this? There is a room for reform that is this large and yet chooses to take an action that should not be necessary. My question is therefore: whose money is the money? In the world of government, money seems to be a never-ending well that it is possible to increase the withdrawal of. About 800 million want the government to increase its withdrawal with today's change that we are now debating – this of the 40 billion that is a space for reform. We must start to reward people who save and take care of their future and not increase taxes on those who have the opportunity to save. We believe that families who save long-term should have stable and favourable tax rules. Both the security and freedom of action of the family and the stability of the national economy benefit from households having access to their own savings. The investment savings account is an important reform that increases the possibility for people to create long-term savings on their own. The difference from conventional taxation is that funds in the account are taxed on an ongoing basis and regardless of whether the value of the paper rises or falls. Current taxation must therefore be predictable in the long term in order to be able to take a decision that is well-founded for the future. The Government's proposal to now implement a further increase in the tax on savings on investment savings accounts shows that savers cannot rely on either parliament or government in terms of long-term commitments. Interest in savings risks decreasing as the basic rules for long-term and tax-favoured savings are eroded time and again. We in the Alliance have, in our respective draft budgets, opposed the government's proposal to increase taxation on a number of tax bases. The current proposal on increased taxation of savings on investment savings accounts is one of these tax bases. We are strongly critical of the tax increase not only because it hits those who try to save, but because the government does this as a rule: If you find a tax, you raise it. There must be reasonableness in our tax policy. There must be a reasonable opportunity for people to keep up with why we raise or lower a tax. It seems that there is an automaticity in the Government Office that makes you raise the taxes that you find. I do not believe in this policy. Saving should pay off, and this unfortunately puts savings at a disadvantage.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-980	Madam President, I would like It is quite interesting to hear the Christian Democrats glaring that we want to finance the reforms that we put in the budget. It is understandable that they have belonged to a government that has chosen to borrow for tax reductions. I have not had time to look at the Finance Minister's proposal, but I guess that the move tax is about closing a hole when it comes to people who have had access to the welfare that Sweden offers and then avoiding being involved in paying for the party. As I understand it, it is a measure requested by the Swedish Tax Agency. I note that there is quite a lot of discussion about tax and tax levels in this debate, and I must nevertheless point out that the tax ratio, i.e. the proportion of GDP, will be 43.8 % in 2018. It is a historically low level compared to the mid-70s. With our pensioner's tax reduction it will fall to 43.4% by 2020. It sounds to you that we have hit the ceiling of the tax quota and that it would be rising. I think a little bit of factuality would be nice, especially because the Christian Democrats themselves choose to raise VAT by 15 billion, as I think it was. I think it is important to have the order of magnitude clear in this debate. This proposal means an increase of SEK 37 and 50 øre a year if you have as much as SEK 50 000 in the investment savings account. Can Larry Söder with some kind of dignity still call this criminal taxation?
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-985	Madam President, I would like Of course, we think that the reforms proposed in the budget should be financed. The problem for the government is that it has no reforms. It finances the present and not the future. That is the problem with your budget. You don't have any reforms to get to the long queues of health care and retirement homes that don't exist. You are throwing the money and hoping that they will end up right instead of doing what you should do: take a big grip and make reforms. The Social Democrats say here in the speech that the tax rate is historically low. Actually, that's not true. During this term of office, the tax rate has increased by 1%. When the Alliance handed over the baton, it was 42.6 percent, and you said yourself that it would be 43.8 percent. I agree that you should stick to the realistic numbers that exist and that you should speak the truth. The tax rate is not historically low. It has increased during your period. You may say that you sometimes think it is better to deliberately raise the tax to get the money in. You make the decision instead of the citizen. I think it is better for the citizen to make the decision. That's where we split up.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-988	Madam President, I would like It is not, therefore, to be regarded as criminal taxation. Yes, what about reforms for the future? How about the welfare billions? How about education for children and young people? We have turned a historically poor development into a school. The results have been reversed during this government. How about investing in the future by investing in those who are unemployed so that they can get an education to work? If it's not future reform, I don't know what it is. We have heard a lot about practice in this House. It may sound a bit cocky to ask us Social Democrats whether we will follow the practice when, as recently as last summer, we were upset by the tax proposals that the government looked at to such an extent that it threatened to convict the government. If it isn't to abandon practice, I don't know what it is. I am not surprised if the Swedish Democrats break rules. I guess that's the rule rather than the exception. But it will still be interesting to hear how the alliance parties now think for the future when it becomes clear that they can no longer expect them to rule with passive support from the Swedish Democrats. How do the Christian Democrats, if they now enter the Riksdag and form part of a future alliance government, intend to deal with such a question? I think the voters would be happy to have an answer to that, Larry Söder.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-992	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind Mrs Bergstedt that I have not asked the Social Democrats at all how to deal with practices. I assume that they will not follow the practice. That is what they were talking about in the Budget Process Committee when they did not want to strengthen the protection of how we should handle the economy and the budget, but thought that it is good as it is today – a handshake that really does not apply when it then burns. You think you can do what you want. 2013 is an example of this, and I believe that 2013 will be repeated if the Social Democrats find themselves in a different situation from where they are today. I did not mention practice, because I know what it will look like. As far as welfare billions are concerned, I wonder if Hannah Bergstedt thinks it works particularly well. In 2014, 17 county councils passed the targets for queues. Now there are seven of them who can handle the targets for the queues. 70 000 people are in line and do not receive the care to which they are actually entitled. Does Hannah Bergstedt think the queue billion works? If not, we should find reforms that actually make it work. This is what I'm talking about-- somewhere clicks it. You have no reforms for the future. You only have reforms for the present. You are trying to patch and fix instead of doing what the Swedish people actually want: reforms for the future.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-995	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Moderate reservation to be approved. In addition, we have a special opinion which describes our approach to the current government's budget. The Moderates do not propose any changes to the allocation in this matter, but we have a different policy focus. The world is more unpredictable and uncertain. This places demands on Sweden as an international player and stresses the importance of effective international collaboration. Sweden should be a strong voice for peace, freedom and reconciliation. We shall promote democracy, human rights and sustainable development, and we shall uphold international law and gender equality. All in all, it is now more important than in many years. Our policy aims to transform oppression into freedom, poverty into progress and waste of resources into sustainable development. The challenges are many and very difficult. The war in Syria has crippled both the region and the international community. Several countries in the Middle East are collapsing with violence, war and refugee flows as a result. Turkey is becoming increasingly authoritarian. Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and Russian aggression against Ukraine have fundamentally shaken the European security regime. North Korea has escalated its nuclear programme – not least yesterday's news shows this – and China shows clear signs of wanting to play an increasingly central role globally, economically and militarily. The Trump administration has signalled a change of view on how the US should act internationally and on the transatlantic link. This has stabilised somewhat, but many questions remain. The UK's decision to leave the EU has also seriously affected our foreign and security policy structure. Madam President, I would like The restless and unpredictable situation around the world makes international collaboration even more important. Sweden needs a well-thought-out policy in order to be able to deal with the complex challenges. We ourselves must be able to prevent and manage the crises we face and also do so in collaboration with others. Sweden must therefore pursue a more active foreign, defence and security policy. It must be much more clearly linked to and prioritise Swedish interests than it is today. Through Europe, we have the greatest opportunity to address many of our future challenges. We want Sweden and the EU to continue working for democracy, human rights and the rule of law in an increasingly globalised world where values such as these are often called into question. We Moderates welcome the EU's global strategy. A coherent vision of EU external relations and a more efficient use of EU resources make the EU a stronger global player. Sweden will push for the strategy to have an impact and to be used in practice. NATO is also crucial to Europe's security. Sweden will deepen its cooperation with NATO and develop a roadmap for Swedish membership. This gives Sweden greater opportunities to take responsibility for and influence security cooperation. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, it is important that Sweden continues to strengthen cooperation and belonging to our Nordic and Baltic neighbours. There are many benefits here, including increased mobility and continued integration between countries. Common challenges such as safety and the environment can be addressed through better cooperation in the neighbourhood. The United Nations will continue to be a cornerstone of Swedish foreign policy. Sweden shall remain ready to participate with military capabilities in peace-promoting operations under the leadership of the UN, the EU or NATO. Sweden's agenda and priorities in the UN Security Council will focus on conflict resolution, human rights and Resolution 1325. At the same time, the government in UN work must make demands and push the issue of reform of the UN system to tackle bureaucracy, corruption and inefficiency. Given the growing concern in our neighbourhood over recent years, the government must give more priority to EU work. We believe that there is no contradiction between pursuing an active EU policy and working in the Security Council. Madam President, I would like Around the world, people live in dictatorships and authoritarian oppression. The violent and acute humanitarian crises around the world are perhaps given more attention, but Sweden must continue to support democratic forces in countries such as Cuba, Venezuela and Belarus. Sweden will safeguard gender equality, SRHR – sexual and reproductive health and rights – and women's rights. The same applies to LGBTQ people's rights wherever they are questioned. Climate and resource issues are increasingly becoming security issues as well. The struggle for resources risks leading to conflicts and flows of refugees. Sweden will continue to be a leader in the international climate work and work towards a more efficient use of resources. Cost-effective climate action in other countries, climate-proof assistance, increased interconnection of energy networks in Europe and the continued promotion and development of renewable energy sources are important priorities. The individual's right to freedom, man's inviolability and belief in the potential for each one to develop and grow based on its own conditions is central to our policy. Therefore, the equal value of all human beings is fundamental. Freedom of speech and religion is the basis for an open and free society. The Internet and technology create enormous opportunities, not least as a tool for freedom of expression, but incorrectly used it can mean intrusions and limitations and be used for repression. Personal integrity and individual rights must be safeguarded. We want Sweden to be a leading player for both freedom and security online. Sweden will work in international contexts to protect vulnerable minorities. Sweden will also continue to combat all forms of discrimination.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-1014	Madam President, I would like International collaboration and having good relations with the outside world are very important to us. We need to be able to show a picture of our country as a serious and credible partner and that we are a country worth investing in or visiting, but also a country that participates in efforts and research for a more peaceful world. We want Sweden to act, cooperate and maintain good relations with all democratic and peaceful nations and states in the world. When problems become global, a global platform is needed to combat them through international cooperation. This is particularly important in the case of environmental threats, armed conflicts or international organised crime and terrorism. International cooperation is also important in order to find common platforms to defend democracy and human rights and freedoms. We Swedish democrats regard us in descending order as part of a Nordic, a European, a Western and a global community. In line with this, we want to work in particular to strengthen Nordic identity and broaden and deepen Nordic cooperation. Our countries have a lot in common, and Nordic cooperation has been well established for a long time. Together, we are the world's twelfth largest economy, and our countries are world leaders in many areas and in many contexts. The Nordic countries share common values and cultural heritage, but the common features of the Nordic languages are also a cornerstone of the community that binds the Nordic countries together. This is why we want to allocate extra funding of SEK 10 million to improve internal vocabulary and support efforts for cultural exchange. The committee notes the importance of safeguarding strong, open and value-based Nordic cooperation and that the importance of cooperation will become increasingly relevant when Sweden takes over the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2018 and at the same time has coordination responsibilities in N5 and NB8. In previous years, it has also been stressed that Nordic cooperation is in many ways unique in an international comparison and that it is politically, economically and culturally anchored. I therefore find it sad that we are not prepared to support a change in order to invest in language comprehension and support cultural exchanges. Madam President, I would like In our grant exercise for category 5 we have also chosen to make an extra effort at the Swedish Institute where, as in previous years, we allocate 10 million extra. As everyone knows, the Swedish Institute has the task of creating trust in Sweden and Swedish skills and laying the foundation for long-term relations between Sweden and the outside world. This is done through meetings, networking and dialogue with the outside world, which makes it easier for companies, universities, cultural institutions, municipalities and others who depend on Sweden's attractiveness. The Swedish Institute provides training for foreign citizens through its leadership programme, and today there is a network of scholarship recipients who have completed training there. Many of the scholarship recipients have, or will have, important positions and functions in their home countries, both in business and in the public sector, for example within the diplomatic corps. To take advantage of this network of scholarship recipients who have studied at the Swedish Institute's leadership programme and make more effective use of it, we want the Swedish Institute to develop an action plan for this, from both a diplomatic and a trade point of view. The committee notes in the report that the Institute has been given some mandates, but I cannot see that our proposal for an action plan is adequately addressed. Because when we propose an action plan, it involves much more in order to be able to make good use of the network. Furthermore, we also want to see the Swedish Institute develop a communication plan and choose five to ten countries that they invest more in. Unfortunately, we can see that the committee believes that no further measures, other than those of the government, are necessary. Mr President, I would like to Unlike the other parties, we have chosen to lift the allocation for international operations in Category 5 from Category 6. This is, of course, just a budgetary matter, but I would like to take this opportunity to mention something about it. Since the birth of the United Nations, Sweden has participated in many of the organisation's peacekeeping operations, all in all amounting to 120 international missions in 60 countries. In recent years, however, Sweden has almost completely declined to participate in UN-led peacekeeping operations and has instead given priority to EU or NATO-led operations. The UN has apparently been rejected as a conflict manager by various Swedish governments, which we regret. We see the UN as the primary cooperation body for dealing with conflicts and safeguarding peace and security. A fundamental prerequisite for international action shall be a clear mandate from the UN Security Council. Sweden should play an active role in UN and Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, as well as in strengthening the capacity of these organisations, when we find strong motivation to do so. It is also important that the actions have clear objectives and a well-thought-out strategy for the operation to contribute to peace and stability. However, international efforts must not jeopardise the survival of our own country. Therefore, additional funds should be provided to the Swedish Armed Forces as compensation for the financial consequences of international efforts. In the new appropriation of SEK 991 million, as we propose in Category 5, we have financed for the Swedish international efforts in Mali and northern Iraq, among others. The operation in Mali is just led by the UN, and we are in favour of it. We have also supported the operation in northern Iraq, even if it is not carried out under the auspices of the United Nations. However, we have not taken up the height of the Afghanistan operation, because we do not support Sweden's participation in it. I will not enter into any debate on these efforts as we return to the latter two on 15 December in connection with the Parliament's decision on them. Mr President, I would like to Since the framework for the area of expenditure has already been decided and we have proposed an extended framework, we do not take part in the decision in paragraph 1 but instead have added a specific opinion to the report. Finally, I would like to endorse the SD's reservation 2 in the report.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-1032	Mr President, I would like to On 22 November, the Parliament decided on the framework for the spending areas of the state budget, including for Category 5 International Cooperation, which we are now discussing. The reservation from this moment of decision shows the overall draft budget of the Center Party and our position in these parts. This is, therefore, a report in which we do not take a position on the area of expenditure at the time of the decision but abstain. However, the Committee on Foreign Affairs notes that the objective of this area of expenditure is broad. This requires clear interim targets for the Riksdag to be able to follow up the results. The declared goal of the Parliament is to secure Swedish interests in connection with other countries. For Sweden as a small and open country, it is important to be a clearer guardian of a norm-driven world order. I think we can agree on this. The UN and the EU are key bodies in this work, but there are more. The government claims to have been the driving force for maintaining and also strengthening the European security regime. We have to assume that this is about support for the OSSE in various forms. But how strengthened the security regime is remains to be seen. Results cannot be followed up. Last week I visited Georgia. I followed the EUMM, which Sweden supports, and at the same time saw a sneaky annexation going on. It is not in accordance with the European security regime. Russia does not want to leave Georgia's territory. In Ukraine, the war is going on. Russia does not want to leave the territory of Ukraine. The Council of Europe is a body created for human rights, democracy and the rule of law on our continent to take care of the human rights of the UN and make them ours. The fundamental values of this whole organisation are now being subjected to a clear attack from Russia. Russia is blackmailing the members of the Council of Europe to ensure that the arrangements in force are brought to an end. The fact that Russia is given the opportunity to kidnap an organisation with financial means to uphold our values is deeply serious. If this happens, the whole of this ground is threatened on our continent. Mr President, I would like to There is a danger that the next point of attack will be the European Court of Human Rights. It is about undermining the order we agreed on post World War II by destabilising, tearing up and destroying the structures that we have agreed on. This is going on in full swing right now. Turkey follows with the same approach: to try to destroy. The threat of drawing resources makes many countries anxious and at risk of bending. I hope that Sweden will not become one of these countries. Turkey, Azerbaijan and others will take their backs on Russia if Russia gets through its model of kidnapping European structures. The government must build protection, including within the EU, for what is going on. It is about preventing new conflicts and new abuses of the current security regime in our Europe. On this I could speak for a long time in this House, Mr President, and I expect the government and others to act vigorously to prevent what appears to be going on and which follows from what happened in Georgia and Ukraine and which may once again divide our continent. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party and many others have noted that the government has presented an election budget that contains a lot to many. The message is everything to everyone. The funding for peace and security promotion activities was increased for this year by 26 million. The follow-up to the results is difficult to find if you read the budget bill. For 2018, a further increase of 40 million is proposed. The actions referred to are not clearly identified. It is about conferences, meetings and various other things, but there are no milestones that make it possible to follow up and see if the results of peace and security promotion are achieved. In two years it is an increase of SEK 66 million. The same can be said of the sharp increase in appropriations for research into security policy and disarmament. There are also no milestones or opportunities to follow up results. We note that despite the increase in 2017, the government did not have the power to clarify and clarify the consequences of a Swedish yes vote to the nuclear ban this summer – far less the consequences for Sweden if we were to accede to the Convention. There were clearly resources to clarify and investigate the extensions that had been made for this year, but nevertheless this was not done. As far as the institutions are concerned, we stress that if the government wants to make them an opinion-forming role for its policies, their independent profile is threatened, and that is something that we must be very careful about. Against this background, we have rejected many proposals in the budget. We lack interim targets and results follow-up, and we see strong expansions. But, Mr President, as a result of our budget as a whole falling on 22 November, I refer to the special opinion.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-1049	Mr President, I would like to I don't really have a question for Kerstin Lundgren. I just want to take this opportunity, because she mentioned Georgia. I was in Georgia three weeks ago, and Kerstin Lundgren was there last week. Things have happened since then. Today I was informed that President Putin decided yesterday to incorporate the troops formations in the occupied territories into the Russian military command. In fact, I would just like to take this opportunity to strongly condemn this in this House of the Swedish Parliament. Just as Kerstin Lundgren spoke about, this is another step in the annexation of these areas. I strongly condemn the Russian presence.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-1052	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, that's it. It is clear that the military presence is strong and that the separation of Georgia's territory is clear. Any attempt by the Georgian Government to reach out to the breakaway regions of the country, such as trying to give special support to the Abkhazian language, leads to even more closed borders and even more separatist policies on the Russian side. That the Russian side is there and in control is clear, especially in South Ossetia. We know that the so-called leadership of South Ossetia regularly seeks contact with the Kremlin in order to obtain the full result it wishes, namely accession to Russia. This is what's going on. The security regime we have must be clear about maintaining. This type of action must meet with a strong language, not concessions once again when Russia is pressing the funding button that they are trying to use in different contexts.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-1056	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party wants to see a just and equal world where all people have the same opportunities and freedom to live the lives they want. We want to see a world where people can live in freedom from poverty, injustice, violence and racism, freedom to our bodies and to our love and freedom to see all the children of the world grow up in security and gain the knowledge and support they need to become the best that these particular children can be. We want all the people of the world to be able to feel freedom to a working life where we realize ourselves, not wear ourselves out, and where we get a good wage that is enough for a good life and pension. The freedom of every human being is linked to the freedom of all human beings, with a society that allows and makes it possible. It is in fair and equal societies that people's freedom grows at its strongest. The Left Party is working to create a society for all, not just a few. Obstacles to achieving this are the wars, conflicts, environmental problems and growing income inequalities that are at risk of spreading around the world. Then, if ever, there is a need for strong intentions with international cooperation, and this is evident in many parts of the budget for this area. A strong development policy is also needed. However, we will debate this later in Category 7, so I am not raising that here. On the other hand, I would like to highlight some elements that help to strengthen the work for peace, security and conflict prevention. The first is the feminist foreign policy, which continues to make clear impressions. We can see that Sweden has contributed to strengthening women's participation in UN-led talks on Syria, that the Swedish female mediation network has contributed to peace efforts in Burundi and Afghanistan and that countries such as Canada, the Czech Republic, Iraq and Sudan have developed or started developing action plans for women, peace and security. In 2016, Sweden contributed to the OECD joining the humanitarian organisations Call to action on protection from gender-based violence in emergencies. Sweden has also involved women in its operations abroad, and the number of women has increased. In relation to the number of men, however, the proportion of women has unfortunately decreased, although only 1%, but it is important to ensure that there is no trend. We should not only talk about gender equality and women's participation, but also do so in practice. It sends important signals to the outside world when we have women taking part in conflict resolution and peacekeeping operations on the ground. The second area I would like to highlight is disarmament and non-proliferation. The Left Party welcomes the establishment of a Disarmament Co-bassador in 2016 and our participation in the negotiations on a nuclear ban. Weapons are not the answer to peace. It is now up to us to move forward in this work. To this day, people are still suffering from the nuclear weapons used in Japan, and given that the nuclear weapons have become even more effective, we can see the enormous consequences they would have if they were used. The Left Party supports the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons and looks forward to debating this issue once the study has been produced. The fact that some people see it as an obstacle to NATO membership is only an additional bonus. We in the Left Party see no benefits from membership of NATO and also want us to conclude the host country agreement that Sweden has with NATO. One of the most important reasons is that membership would end our tradition of military alliance freedom, which has benefited Sweden so well throughout the ages. We therefore have a special opinion on the report on cooperation with NATO. A third area is that which the Left Party raised in a motion a few years ago. As part of increasing security and reducing the risk of conflict, we wanted the Swedish Institute to promote democratic development in Russia. This has been met to some extent by scholarships to students and researchers from Russia, various event and collaboration projects and a digital Russian-speaking communication platform. Sida also has projects in Russia, including with trade unions, which has led to more workers turning to the trade union movement, with LGBTQ organisations, to enable them to operate at all, and with public activities to strengthen their capacity. We know that it is more difficult and more difficult to be a norm-breaking country in Russia, and then it is important to continue to support civil organisations. In view of all this, it is good to be able to read in the budget that, in particular, people-to-people contacts with Russia should be promoted in order to strengthen the security situation around the Baltic Sea. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party wants to see a just and equal world where all people have the same opportunities and freedom to live the lives they want. This requires strong intentions with international collaboration. I support the proposal in the committee's report UU1.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-1071	Mr President, I would like to It may not be in the Foreign Affairs Committee's report 2017/ 18:U1 on the financing of the field of international cooperation that the great, sharp, clear and ideological differences in Swedish foreign policy lie. Nowadays, all four opposition parties in the Alliance want Sweden to become a member of the NATO Defence Alliance, which we in the Liberals have been running since the 1990s. It is about the Liberals wanting to change Swedish development policy completely and make democracy a top political goal and phase out all bilateral aid to dictators. Not a single crown of aid should go straight into the pockets of the oppressors. We are now living in a world where democracy has been backing for the eleventh year in a row. Then the support for free elections, for free speech and for free people must be increased. It is also a question of the Liberals, as Sweden's most pro-European party and as the only Swedish party, having the courage to advocate that the European Union should move towards a federation. We need to give the EU more supranational muscles in areas such as climate policy, environmental policy, asylum policy, terrorism and law enforcement and dare to push the issue of a European carbon tax. We also need to establish that the EU is the most important foreign policy arena for Sweden. However, all these foreign policy fields, whether they concern NATO, aid or the EU, will be the opportunity to discuss and debate in this House in December and in the spring. As I said, it is not in this political field that there is a great ideological foreign policy line of battle. To comment on what the report actually concerns, namely the financing of international cooperation, I can say that we from the Liberals are just under the government's appropriations for Category 5. We spend a total of 12 million less than the government in this field. This is mainly because we believe, for example, that research on disarmament should be included within the existing spending framework. This and more is reflected in the Liberals' specific opinion in this report.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-1078	Mr President, I would like to For the Christian Democrats, it is essential that foreign policy is value-based. Sweden shall stand up for and defend universal values such as human rights and freedoms, democracy and the rule of law in order to strengthen peace, freedom and development. Sweden's foreign policy should be an expression of the fact that we all have a responsibility for each other. Today we are debating the cost and direction of foreign policy. What are the priorities to be set? The area of international cooperation is important, not least in a troubled time and in a troubled world. Collaboration is the key word for preventing, managing and resolving conflicts. Mr President, I would like to Sweden must be an active player in various international collaboration bodies, from the Nordic to the global. Sweden must actively contribute to the efficient and results-oriented functioning of these partnerships. Unfortunately, the list of unrest and devastation in our surrounding world can be made long. It is an environment that places high demands on international collaboration. The international bodies within which we collaborate must deliver, as must the organisations responsible for analysing events and developing methods. Much of the funding from Category 5, International Cooperation, goes precisely to the compulsory fees in international organisations which are also arenas for our foreign and security policy. The vast majority of the removal takes place at the UN and a large part at peace-keeping operations. In the order of magnitude, it is then fees to the Nordic Council of Ministers that are taken from the grant. As I said, the area is broad, and in this speech I will only be able to make a few cuts in a few of the budget lines to express the views of the Christian Democrats on international cooperation. Let me start in our absolute proximity – Nordic cooperation. It is a cooperation that is central in so many ways. However, we want to see effective and focused cooperation in areas where together we can make a real difference. Cooperation in the Nordic countries should therefore focus on defence and security policy challenges as well as on solving the border barriers that hinder the free movement and integration between our countries. Integration between our citizens is rolling, but the pace will be determined by the willingness of our national governments to help remove the remaining barriers to borders. Only in this way can more citizens and businesses benefit from the positive effects of further integration. The establishment of a Border Barriers Council was an important step in promoting the free movement of people and businesses within the Nordic region. It is a work that we Christian Democrats think needs to be intensified. The Government justifies its increase in the funding for Nordic cooperation with the fact that Sweden next year will chair the Nordic Council of Ministers. This can surely cause some costs to run. But we Christian Democrats believe that we need to become even better at prioritising and streamlining Nordic cooperation as well. Friendly gatherings in all honour, but it should also be taken into account that today our countries meet in far more international arenas than once when cooperation was initiated. What I mean is that relationships are built in a number of contexts other than delegation trips and in Nordic projects. Mr President, I would like to Let me take a fresh example. When the vote on where the European Medicines Agency (EMA) should be when it leaves London, there was no consensus on the interaction between Denmark and Sweden. Nor was there any understanding from the Swedish Government that a vote in Copenhagen, when its own proposal Stockholm had fallen, had benefited the Öresund region. These are lacks of cooperation that no more funds for Nordic cooperation can compensate. Let us focus on working successfully together even when it is not funded from the grant with the name Nordic. Mr President, I would like to I will now turn to appropriation 1:4 Financial assistance for individuals abroad and various costs for the judiciary. It is important that this appropriation should now be substantially increased. They are important that Swedish citizens and people domiciled in Sweden receive sufficient advice and support from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the foreign authorities when they have been in trouble abroad or are in crisis-affected areas. Unfortunately, the number of cases remains high. Terror attacks and other crises in our surrounding world mean that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the foreign authorities must be there for vulnerable Swedes and must improve their crisis management. Unfortunately, there are too many examples of Swedes who are imprisoned around the world without proper legal review or trial. In some cases, but far from all, the method of quiet diplomacy, which is widely regarded, works. Therefore, Sweden must also act within the EU community with other means. Dawit Isaak is one such case. Fikru Maru is another case. In 2010, he got caught in customs on one of his trips to Ethiopia. Ethiopia's judicial system believes that Maru has attempted to smuggle medical supplies in on behalf of her hospital. After this, Fikru Maru has been suspected of, among other things, bribery, from which he is now completely exonerated. In spite of this, he is still in custody, as he is now suspected of terrorist crimes. Both human rights activists and opposition politicians in the country question the image that has been conveyed about this. Another case concerns the Swedish bookstore and publisher Gui Minhai who was removed from his holiday home in Thailand in October 2015. We do not know where Gui is today. In the Christian Democrats' reservation, we therefore stress that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs must step up its efforts in support of Swedish prisoners. That is why I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 3. This budget line also includes important actions in relation to abducted or detained children abroad and specific actions in individual consular matters relating to child marriage and forced marriages. The Christian Democrats have long advocated the development of the British Forced Marriage Unit, which exists within the British Foreign Office, also at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. Norway also has a very active job in foreign affairs. Among other things, they have a well-developed system where special advisors on forced marriage issues have been placed with a number of Norwegian foreign authorities. Here Sweden has an improvement potential. Mr President, I would like to Finally, in our special opinion, we Christian Democrats have made it clear that we would have liked to see a different distribution of funds in the field of international cooperation expenditure. We believe that it is crucial that Sweden, at a time of great international concern, should be able to make even more Swedish personnel available for peace promotion, security promotion and conflict prevention activities within the framework of NATO, the UN, the EU and the OSSE. There must also be flexibility and scope to re-prioritise in order to meet new and changing needs. The Christian Democrats therefore propose an increase in funding for peace and security promotion activities. As mentioned, we believe that cooperation with the Nordic neighbours and also with the countries around the Baltic Sea should be possible in a more cost-effective way than at present. We believe that at a time when the world is more worried than in a long time, it is not a reasonable priority that the grant to the Swedish Institute continues to grow. Mr President, I would like to With these changes, we believe that Sweden could have better met the challenges facing the world today.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-1093	Mr President, I would like to The area of expenditure we are now debating covers issues relating to Sweden's relations with and agreements with other states and international organisations. Within the expenditure area there are two authorities: Inspection for strategic products and the Swedish Institute. Every day, foreign and security policy faces challenges from the outside world that place increasing demands on analysis, research, dialogue and advocacy to secure Swedish and European interests. In view of the serious world situation, the government is strengthening its efforts to ensure that foreign policy and diplomacy can be the main line of defence. Our rules-based security regime is also being challenged, and as a military non-aligned country, Sweden has a vital interest in safeguarding the rule-based security regime. Strengthening instruments for conflict prevention, confidence building, crisis management and disarmament in Europe and globally. Sweden shall be a joint and several contributor to both civilian and military crisis management and peace-promoting operations. Our participation in crisis management supports the multilateral world order at the heart of the UN, which also strengthens our national security. This budget therefore provides funds for peace-building, civilian crisis management and conflict prevention. The boundary between military operations and other state-supported activities aimed at influencing societies is becoming increasingly blurred and calls into question democratic foundations. The need for risk mitigation and confidence-building measures has therefore increased. The threat from cyber attacks is serious and has both security policy implications and the pressure on the free internet. Therefore, the government in the budget strengthens the measures for resilience to, among other things, misinformation in these areas. Enhanced cooperation with other countries and organisations is an important part of the Swedish security policy line. Sweden deepens the foreign and security policy relationship with our Nordic and Baltic neighbours. At a time when global challenges are also greater than for a very long time, the need for a well-functioning UN Security Council is of increasing importance in order to effectively respond to the challenges facing the world, and Sweden's membership of the Security Council in 2017 and 2018 must therefore be well managed. This is an important opportunity for Swedish participation. Mr President, I would like to The government's feminist foreign policy will continue to be conducted unabated and permeates all areas and forums of foreign and security policy. As democratic space decreases and human rights are increasingly questioned, it is particularly important that Sweden stands up for global equality, equal value for all, and full enjoyment of human rights by women and girls. The full and equal participation of women in conflict prevention, crisis management, conflict resolution and peace building contributes significantly to international peace and security. Research shows, among other things, that women's participation contributes to the conclusion of peace agreements and that peace becomes more sustainable. In 2018, therefore, women as actors in peace work, women's and girls' involvement and economic empowerment, sexual and reproductive health and rights, as well as the freedoms of all forms of violence and oppression. The compulsory contributions to international organisations are the major budget line in the area of expenditure we are currently debating. This is what makes it possible for Sweden's foreign and security policy and for our collective international commitment. Sweden will continue to be a responsible member of all these international organisations by continuing to pay tax in full and on time. The majority of the removal takes place to the UN, which, not least through the government's strengthened UN policy, is absolutely central to Swedish foreign policy. However, the UN is also important for a number of other policies and ministries. The UN as the administrator of a global rule-based multilateral world order is a central arena for Sweden's work for international peace and security. Sweden will work for greater transparency, representativeness and efficiency in the Security Council, as we do in the UN system as a whole and in all other multilateral organisations where we are represented. The government is also prepared to act on new issues that may be dealt with in the Council. Mr President, I would like to I would like to point out some of the budget lines in this area of expenditure. I would like to point out some of the investments made in the field of expenditure, not primarily on the basis of the amount of money, but on the basis of which activities are important for the future. In 2017, the European Center of Excellence for Countering Hybrid Threats was established in Helsinki. It is open to NATO Member States. The Government considers that it is in Sweden's interest to support the Centre and play an active role in its construction, and Sweden therefore signed a Memorandum of Understanding to participate in the Centre's activities in April. From 2018, participation in the business requires an annual fee, and the assessment is that for Sweden it will amount to SEK 1 million. In terms of peace and security, it is proposed that the grant will increase by SEK 40 million from 2018 for an investment in peace and security, conflict prevention, security and peace-promoting efforts, confidence-building and armament control, women as peace actors, and security analysis and dialogue. For the years 2018 – 2020, the grant for research and other efforts for, among other things, international negotiation processes for disarmament and non-proliferation is proposed to increase by SEK 9 million. For 2021 it is proposed to increase by SEK 4 1⁄2 million. The grant may be used for expenditure on research, investigations and other activities related to security policy, disarmament and non-proliferation – including relevant activities at the Swedish Defence Research Institute, FOI, and the Swedish Institute for Foreign Policy, as well as state grants for projects carried out by Swedish and foreign organisations and institutes in this area. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to endorse the proposal in the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-1105	Mr President, I would like to It is not possible to have a debate without a change of line! That is why I asked for a reply when I heard Kenneth G. Forslund speak about the importance of freedom of alliance. In my speech – to which Kenneth G. Forslund was unable to listen, Mr President – I raised the issue of non-aligned Eastern countries. I mentioned Georgia, which is non-aligned, and I mentioned Ukraine, which is non-aligned. In both cases, the territories of the countries are eaten up by our great neighbour, Russia, who does not care about standards and does not care about the security regime we have agreed on in Europe. The non-aligned vote, Mr President, wishes to join NATO. They want clear security from democracies. What is the problem for the Social Democrats and Kenneth G. Forslund when it comes to building security together with other democracies to be clear against our great neighbour Russia?
i-RWSSqprNcx8DXnLzWFbfeT	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren, for the line! That is exactly right, as Kerstin Lundgren says – Georgia and Ukraine are currently non-aligned. In their case, this is an involuntary freedom of alliance. Georgia was given a prospect of membership in NATO, but this has not been achieved. As far as Ukraine is concerned, it must be understood that this country too has a desire to join NATO. This is an involuntary freedom of alliance. This freedom of alliance should also be seen in the light of the geographical location and history of these two countries, which is a different geographical location and a different historical origin from that of Sweden. I believe that every country in Europe and in the area of activity of the Atlantic Alliance – i.e. NATO – and on the basis of its own national motives must decide whether to join NATO or not. For the Swedish part, the opinion of the Social Democrats is that it is not appropriate to join NATO. Article 5 of NATO on the automatic defence guarantees, as we understand it, is an obstacle. The fact that strategic planning in NATO is based on the possession of nuclear weapons by some states is another obstacle. In conclusion, Mr President, listening to Kerstin Lundgren may be tempted to believe that democracy would be an entry criterion for joining NATO. I'm afraid that's not the case. It is a partially dubious group which are members for geopolitical reasons, not because these countries are democratically qualified.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-1113	Mr President, I would like to I think Kenneth G. Forslund makes it easy for himself when he talks about Sweden's security policy situation. Sweden's security policy situation is not separate from the situation of our Baltic neighbours, our neighbours on the southern side of the Baltic Sea or the rest of the Nordic region. We are part of the environment in which we find ourselves, with Russia as a large and aggressive neighbour. Nothing indicates that Russia wants to step into the order that has been in place since the Second World War and following the Helsinki agreements in terms of not changing borders again on the European continent by military means. Russia is changing borders and is ready to go in and destabilise. The prerequisite for this is to build common protection and to build clarity. In that part, the Social Democrats lack an answer. The only thing you refer to is that there is automatic protection. But it is that part, the security guarantee, which is the ultimate insurance policy. I assume that Kenneth G Forslund himself has some form of insurance against fire or other things at home. If something happens, it's such a good thing to have. What is wrong with having one when we talk about the security of Sweden, the Swedish people and our system? There, Kenneth President, Mr G. Forslund is guilty of the answer.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-1117	Mr President, I would like to Given the geographical situation and the history of the three Baltic states as former Soviet republics, I think it is understandable, self-evident and even desirable for them to be part of NATO. Remember that the Social Democrats in Sweden at the time of the application for membership of NATO for the three Baltic States were in favour of this, because we thought it was relevant in their case. On the other hand, the fact that Sweden would join NATO, based on its historical and geographical position, is another matter. There I do not share Kerstin Lundgren's view. Kerstin Lundgren also puts forward the fairly common fire insurance argument – that we should take out the insurance before it starts to burn. It is a simple rhetoric, but unfortunately I am not entirely convinced that NATO will be so quick – after all – to come to the rescue. Unfortunately, there is also great doubt within NATO about this. To conclude, Mr President, I have to say that I have both fire insurance and other insurance at home in Kungälv, and unfortunately I trust my own insurance company more than I would trust NATO.
i-17a2589fa0c102b6-1121	Mr President, I would like to This morning we woke up to the news that North Korea has launched another ballistic missile – a missile that landed in Japan's economic zone and is said to be able to carry nuclear weapons all the way to the United States. My friends! We live in a very troubled and dangerous world today. The U.S. President has a fabless to answer on Twitter. My friends! We need a security system that is calm and safe. The world is worried today. We see how Russia has crossed borders by military means – how it has entered Georgia, how it conducts war in Ukraine and how it has annexed Crimea. That is one way of ignoring the international security regime. Of course, we should devote ourselves to democracy-building work, as we do through this budget with, for example, the Swedish Institute and their important democracy projects with Russia. But we must also make it very clear that we must not cross borders in the international security regime – otherwise we have anarchy in the world. Mr President, I would like to No human being is an island, complete and complete in itself, and the English Renaissance man John Donne dictated almost 400 years ago. Words are as true today as they are then. As little as we humans can be regarded as isolated islands, strictly separated from each other, our nations can. We see evidence of this every day, not least at a time that is increasingly marked by cross-border, global threats and challenges. One such challenge is the refugee situation. More than 65 million people are on the run in today's world, which places great demands on our countries to provide humanitarian aid, with a humane refugee policy and with long-term efforts to address conflicts and other causes of people being driven away. Another challenge is climate change. We already see today that many people are forced to leave their homes because of droughts, floods or conflicts that have been partly driven by a changed climate. And we know that this pattern will only get worse if we do not jointly achieve major emission reductions in a short time. A third challenge is the oceans. For too long the seas have almost been seen as no man's land. We have soiled them and fished them out beyond the limits of sustainability. We have not assumed our responsibility for an ecosystem that is actually vital to the survival of all people. Today, the situation for the seas is critical – the ability to absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere has slowed down, and fish stocks are in severe crisis. We cannot escape the fact that we are together and that we are interdependent in the most fundamental ways – for our economic well-being, for our cultural impulses and not least for peace and security. When the major challenges of our time are increasingly cross-border, we also need to interact more and more to deal with them. That is exactly what we are dealing with here today, Mr President, with Category 5 International Cooperation. It is not a huge part of Sweden's total budget, but it is an extremely important part. It is staff-tight, and it is extremely important to work for international peace and security. The contributions Sweden makes, financially and personally, to international organisations, to peace and security promotion, to Nordic cooperation and much more is about nothing but our desire to make the world a safer, more peaceful and better place. That we are actually contributing to it I have seen with my own eyes, not least in one of the areas closest to my heart: peace-building. For example, in Somalia, severe, long - drawn conflicts have left deep wounds in the country. An entire generation of Somalis have grown up in war and conflict, and many have been driven on the run. A number of attempts at mediation and negotiation have been made to bring about peace, but lasting results have often not been achieved. There are also positive examples of small islands of hope in an ocean of suffering, and we must take them on board. Through Sweden's support for local education projects for dialogue and negotiation, we have seen the amazing way in which parties in conflict, who have seen their villages and homes burned down, who have resorted to arms against each other and who have been trapped in the vicious circle of revenge, have come together and started talking to each other and finally laid down their weapons. With confidence-building targeted efforts that Sweden has supported, we have seen negative spirals broken in Somalia and in other countries. It's not an easy job. It takes time, trust and long-termness. Many times you may not reach the result that you would have liked as quickly as you wanted, but I have seen that a positive change can happen. That is why our efforts are so incredibly important, and that is why I think we should be proud of the efforts that Sweden is making in this area. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's work for international cooperation is of great importance in the serious state of security policy that we find ourselves in. For us environmental partners, the starting point is self-evident. We need to work with a variety of security policy instruments to promote Swedish and international security. Diplomacy, dialogue and development cooperation are inalienable. We also need to move beyond a one-sided focus on traditional security policies, which revolve around external military threats and those faced by states to emphasise broad and human security. If we do not do so, we cannot seriously face the picture of security risks with which we are confronted today. And we need to place greater emphasis on prevention. It concerns the general, long-term work that is promoted through strong assistance in general but also specific measures, such as the government's initiative to integrate climate into Sweden's development strategies. This is also in the long term and indirectly promoting peace. Sweden will continue to stand up for and promote strong global regulations with strong, transparent and multilateral institutions, and we will actively participate in peace-promoting international efforts. The UN, the EU and the OSSE are cornerstones of security building policy. We must continue to strengthen these institutions. None of the institutions is perfect, far from it, but the reform work must continue. This is extremely important: the UN is the hub of peace in the world and must be allowed to do so. We must be able to come together at the UN. It is the only multilateral body in which all states are represented. Sweden is doing an extremely important job here, partly through its support to the UN in general through the ref snake work that Sweden has been working with for a long time, partly in the form of the place that we now have in the Security Council, where we can concretely and clearly go in and influence that peace, women and security are connected and that we follow Resolution 1325 and look at climate-building measures. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
