i-3163eb1a97fabb87-9	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the bill A free-of-charge film review and extended management rule. I'll try to explain what this is all about. Talesättet, sifting mosquitoes and swallowing camels, fits very well into the bill. Before I go into this saying, I would like to endorse reservations 2 and 3, because I am the only one participating in the debate from the cooperation parties. I therefore request the approval of reservation 2 and reservation 3. There are two proposals in the bill. The government wants to allow parents and other adults to take 11-year-olds, 12-year-olds, 13-year-olds and 14-year-olds to cinemas to watch movies with a 15-year-old limit. I think that's great. Parents and children should, if the child is mature, be able to watch movies with a 15-year limit in the cinema. As a parent, I myself had the ban on taking a 14 - year - old to a movie with a 15 - year - old limit. The cinemas risk punishment if they allow parents to bring mature children to movies with a 15-year limit. It is great to now remove the rule that prevents the practice of culture for children and parents together. The government is proposing one more thing. The government proposes to remove fees for the film industry when it comes to setting age limits for children's films to be shown in the cinema. I guess that's okay. It always costs, but then society, the taxpayer, will have to take that cost. But this is where the saying goes, Mr President, to sift mosquitoes and swallow camels. Only 3% of all films consumed in the country are shown in the cinema and hit by that rule. 97% are displayed on other platforms – tablets, mobile phones, televisions and other places of consumption. It's streaming and more. There is no advice for parents and other adults about who the films are aimed at and whether a film is good or bad for a seven-year-old. The Social Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Green Party have no answer to this. They sift mosquitoes and swallow camels. In fact, we need to look at how we advise parents and other adults on these 97% of the consumption of films. The government says in the bill that it wants to protect children from being exposed to harmful and inappropriate media exposure. But you don't do anything about it. In this debate, representatives of the Social Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Green Party have the opportunity to clarify how they intend to protect children from harmful and inappropriate media exposure on platforms other than cinemas. In 2011, Mr President, adult censorship was abolished. It had long played its part. The Alliance government took this question to the Riksdag, and in 2011 adult censorship was abolished. Minister for Culture of the Alliance Government Lena Adelsohn Liljeroth realized that we need to do more in terms of age determination in film screening when increasingly film is consumed elsewhere than in cinemas. The investigation, which is presented very well, has been referred. There are ready-made proposals. What we propose in our response to the bill is what is in the investigation. This means that we move from a regulated film review to an industry-regulated film review. This is nothing new. It has been in Finland for several years and works very well. It works so that when parents are going to watch a film with their children through a streaming service or something else, they see that the film company has written that the film – that's how it is in Finland – is suitable for children over seven years of age, children over ten years of age or children over fifteen years of age. Then, as a parent and as an adult, I can receive advice: Is the film suitable for children? In such a system, the role of the Media Council would be completely different from that of today. It goes from an audit authority to a partner who stands for learning, advice and follow-up. It's a much better system. It is a comprehensive system that it would be very good to implement in Sweden. However, this proposal is rejected without having a proposal of its own. You just say no. You're all hands-on. You sift mosquitoes and swallow camels. It is now up to the Social Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Green Party, who support the committee's proposal in its entirety in this report, to provide answers to these questions. I look forward to these answers in this debate.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-18	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I would like to support the Christian Democrats' reservation 1. I will dwell on the government's proposal for a so-called 'leader rule' and the Christian Democrats' reservation on that proposal. Children's best interests should always come first. It is worrying that in its proposal to Parliament, the Government chooses to compromise the protection of children and young people by proposing an extension of the accompanying rule. The accompanying rule, as proposed by the government, gives 11-year-olds access to all films that are shown in public, provided that they bring an adult with them. An adult can be anyone over eighteen, such as a brother, a sister, a friend of a sibling or a parent. This sends wrong signals to the parents, partly because a reduced age limit can give the impression that all eleven-year-olds are mature to watch all adult films, partly because the parents can easily believe that the films are adapted to children between eleven and fifteen years of age when it is permitted for them to watch the films, albeit in adult company. This is misleading. The extended escort rule is not in the best interests of children. In the consultation document, the Ombudsman for Children writes that the Ombudsman for Children considers that the proposal for an accompanying rule should be able to cover certain films which are currently subject to a strict 15-year limit. The proposal allows children aged 11 or over, but not 15 years, in the company of an adult to have access to a presentation that is permitted for children aged 15 or over. ..................................................... As the Media Council points out, some of the films that are currently subject to a 15-year limit should be shown to younger children in the company of adults. However, we believe that the possibility of setting a strict 15-year limit should still be maintained for the display of films with, for example, harmful reports of violence. The latter is a problem that the Media Council itself highlights, which is that some films are not suitable for younger children, even in the company of adults. It can also be noted that a higher strict age limit for this type of harmful film exists in most of our Nordic neighbours. ..................................................... This is how the Ombudsman for Children writes and continues: At the same time, children and young people have the right to be protected against information and material that may harm their well-being. According to the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child (the Committee on the Rights of the Child), measures are to be taken to protect children against, for example, reports of violence. Society has a special responsibility for the films to which children are exposed in public spaces. ..................................................... Children's Ombudsman's referrals continue: Nor can it be excluded that an automatic 11-year limit for viewing films in adults' company by some adults could be wrongly perceived as an authority's assessment that films with harmful violent accounts are suitable to show to children from 11 years of age. It can lead to the unintended effect that adults increasingly allow children to be exposed to harmful reports of violence even in the home environment and without the company of adults. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to I believe that, in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, children should have the right to be protected against information and material that may harm their well-being. According to the Swedish Media Council 2015 survey, parents' greatest concern about film consumption is that children should come into contact with pornography and depictions of sexual threats or abuse. The National Media Council's review today filters out films with such content for children under 15 years of age, according to the statutory review. According to the Media Council, detailed reports of violence, widespread bloodshed and a focus on suffering are often a 15-year limit for a film. Strong threat and horror scenes as well as strong depictions of anxiety or confusion also belong to this category, as well as depictions of strongly anxiety-charged sexuality. The County Administrative Board in Västernorrland tightens up the criticism in its referral and writes: ..................................................... The Agency for Youth and Civil Society is concerned about the display of films with harmful consequences for children and young people, for example. films with violent accounts. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats are the only party to follow the critical line of the Children's Ombudsman. We are aware that regulation of this kind is not a comprehensive protection for children watching films in other viewing windows. But I believe that the state has a responsibility to mark what is desirable to show or not to show in public space – an important task from which the government is now backing off. The screening of children's films and age limits has served as a good support for parents to lean on so that informed decisions can be made as to which films fit to show to their own children. That is why we Christian Democrats believe that the government's proposal for an extended accompanying rule should be rejected.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-33	Mr President, I would like to Film is an important bearer of culture. We can probably all remember the film experiences that both shook us, touched us and made us scream with laughter, film that made us reflect on life, gave us new perspectives and gained meaning in our everyday life. We Social Democrats think that the film should be available and that more films should be seen by more. In the bill A free film review and extended management rule propose amendments to the law on age limits for films to be shown publicly. The proposal proposes that the requirement for a licence card be abolished and that the fee for setting age limits for films be removed. It is also proposed to extend the accompanying rule. Mr President, I would like to One of my first strong film experiences was when I was six and saw the Lion King at the movies with my mother and some friends. Do I have to say that it was exciting, funny and sad at the same time? Another strong film experience was when Luka Moodyson's film Fucking Åmål premiered. It marked a whole generation of young people and made us reflect on norms and values, which was extremely useful. Film at school is also an important educational tool. The film can concern difficult subjects that require a lot of discussion and reflection. In high school, for example, we saw Steven Spielberg Schindler's List as part of our review of all the terrible things that happened during the Holocaust. Mr President, I would like to The bill may seem to suggest a detailed question, but it is a step in making films more accessible to more people. It is also a simplification of bureaucracy. Film in cinema may have the age limit of children, seven years, eleven years or fifteen years. The age limits that exist are regulated by the law on age limits for films to be shown publicly. The age limits are supplemented by the accompanying rule, which means that if you are six years old you can watch a film with the age limit seven years if you have a parent or adult with you. The accompanying rule currently covers all age limits other than the fifteen-year limit, and we believe that it should also be subject to the accompanying rule. This decision also means harmonisation with the other Nordic countries, which is a good thing. The government also considers it important to strike a balanced balance between the child's need for protection and his right to freedom of information. The older, the greater the right to information. It should be pointed out that, at the end of the day, it is the parents and guardians who are responsible for their children and must always bear in mind what is appropriate. The Government also considers it reasonable that the State, through the National Media Council, should continue to be the institution that issues age limits. Today, films are sent to the Swedish Media Council for review, whereupon an audit fee is charged and an authorisation card is issued. However, not everyone chooses to have their film reviewed, after which the film automatically gets an age limit of 15 years. This means that the availability of those films is deteriorating. We want to abolish the fee and the requirement for a permit card so that more films can be reviewed and thus get fairer age limits and become available to more people. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-41	Mr President, I would like to What does it do, Ida Karkiainen, that you do not respond to the Government's proposal for the accompanying rule at any point? It is therefore a question of a child at the age of 11 seeing films that were actually intended for fifteen years and above. I have also mentioned what the Ombudsman for Children says about films intended for the age limit of fifteen years where there is a lot of violence and things that can harm children's well-being. What is it, Ida Karkiainen, that you do not respond to the government's proposal? Is it about letting the government's will take place regardless of what it proposes? What's keeping you from reacting? Have you discussed children's well-being in the Social Democrats when 11-year-olds see films that are supposed to be from fifteen years onwards in the company of an adult – whoever it may be? I appreciate Ida Karkiainen's social pathos, but where were you and the others when the proposal came on the table? Were you simply not quite alert and did not see the dangers that I have tried to describe?
i-5bYmupkZ37ZRThVHh9dCsU	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Utbolt, for the question. I also have great respect for Mr Utbolt's social pathos. It is important to consider what is appropriate and not appropriate. What is important to protect, and what is important not to protect? This reminds me, however, of a debate that has always been about video violence and Internet habits. We can't protect children from everything. That's impossible. However, we can try to strengthen parents, schools and various authorities to work on the issues. It's extremely important. Utbolt's questions are good. It is important to think about where the boundaries are going, but it is also important to strengthen children and give them the tools they need to make their positions and to provide parents with tools to strengthen them in their decisions over their children. Nevertheless, it is ultimately the parents who are responsible for their children and who should decide what is appropriate for the children to see or not. Of course, the state must protect, but there are limits. The Media Council is still in place to issue various recommendations and guidelines. It is important to maintain that order.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-48	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ida Karkiainen. We make laws in Parliament, and that is a great responsibility. It will now be decided that 11-year-olds will see films with an age limit of 15 and above. Ida Karkiainen mentioned in her speech that children have the right to information. It is true that children should receive information, but it is a weak argument. I think the Ombudsman for Children is right when he writes that children have the right to information, but at the same time children and young people have the right to be protected against information and material that may be detrimental to their well-being. What is happening now is that the Riksdag is drafting a law that will apply to the Swedish people. At the same time, Ida Karkiainen believes that we should give the parents power over what the children will see. Responsibility is entirely placed on the parents. The Parliament makes the law, and then the parents take full responsibility. This is opening all the floodgates on the issue. I think we have a great responsibility to the children. We cannot say that violence is decreasing in society. We often talk about children's mental illness, but yet we will make a decision that can increase the anxiety and ill health of young people. Of course, there are very good movies. Ida Karkiainen mentioned some nice films, at least informative films, but there are also many things that are bad and harmful. That's what the Ombudsman for Children takes up. I am a little worried when Ida Karkiainen and the government have no more to say on the matter.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-53	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the supplementary question. I think it is a bit cool to argue that these issues open all the floodgates. We don't really see it that way. The accompanying rule already covers children, seven years old, eleven years old but not fifteen years old. We find that illogical. We believe that the escort rule should also cover the age of fifteen. We think that children in the company of adults can watch movies that are allowed from 15 years old. Still, I claim that it is ultimately a parent's responsibility to determine whether it is reasonable for the child to see the film or not. That is our view. We also believe that it is an important right for children to have access to film and to watch film. It is a problem that many films with a 15-year age limit do not really need a 15-year limit. The government believes that the proposal is well balanced, and we believe that there is a balance between children's right to freedom of information and children's right to protection.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-58	Mr President, I would like to Now we have described Ida Karkiainen's private film preferences, but we have not received an answer to the two questions I raised in my speech. I repeat the questions and ask for answers. We are not here to express our personal preferences with regard to film, but we are here as legislators. I therefore ask Ida Karkiainen as representative of the Social Democrats, who, together with the Swedish Democrats and the Green Party, are behind the bill, as follows. Why do you not have any proposals for the other 97% of films consumed in the country? What you are proposing now concerns only 3% of the films consumed, that is, those in the cinema. What do you want to do to protect children from harmful media exposure for the 97% of films consumed on other platforms? You don't give an answer. I would like an answer now, Mr President, to that question. Why are you opposed to self-regulation? That proposal is clear and clear. Just put it on Parliament's table, you have the majority for it so that we can get advice to parents who want to show films to children about the age for which the films are suitable. Why are you against it, and what are your own proposals? Give me an answer, please!
i-LRzrmr5cuwS6hJzHJzKNQS	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Magnusson, for the questions. Member Magnusson also mentioned personal experiences of going to the movies with his children. It is important that we reflect on our own experiences in this House too. Cecilia Magnusson wonders what we should do about the 97% that are not seen at the cinema. In the committee's opinion, the Committee notes that the Swedish Media Council has the task of promoting children and young people as conscious media users and protecting them from harmful media influences. The Authority shall also monitor the development of the media in relation to children and young people and disseminate information and provide guidance on the media situation of children and young people. The State Media Council thus has that task. It carries out that mission, and we think it should continue to carry out that mission.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-63	Mr President, I would like to I'm getting a little tired because Ida Karkiainen doesn't answer any of my questions. How difficult can it be to answer what you intend to do about the 97% of films that are not shown in the cinema? It is the cinemas that are being examined by the Council of Ministers, now at no cost to the film companies. However, the 97% of films consumed on other platforms have some opportunity to review today. We are proposing a self-regulated film review, where the film companies go in and make age recommendations. What's wrong with that? And what is wrong with extending the Council's opportunities to be learning, training and auditing in a completely different way from today? What's wrong with that? Give the House and the Swedish people answers to these questions! Or could it be that you in the Social Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Green Party are completely unanswered on this question?
i-L23Ts68GPFKQgrB6gdUkXe	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the supplementary question, Mr Magnusson. It is probably the Moderates who must answer what else you want the Council to do and what you want its mission to look like. I think that is very unclear in your position. That is something that you will have to specify, because much of what Mr Magnusson is talking about is what the Council of Ministers is already doing in one way or another. So the question goes back to the Moderates: what is it that you want the Council to do? After all, there are even those in your party who believe that the Council of Ministers should be completely decommissioned. So you will be responsible for the answer, Mr Magnusson. With regard to age limits and the 97% of films not seen in the cinema, I think as a parent there is often an age recommendation that you can follow when showing a film to your children at home or on other platforms than in cinema. That age limit and recommendation are, I think, a responsibility for me as a parent to look at, read through and take a position on. I think that's the responsibility of the parents. ( ANDRE VICE TALMANNEN: The questions raised by Ida Karkiainen may be considered rhetorical because Cecilia Magnusson has no more lines. )
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-71	Mr President, I would like to Before a film appears on the screen, it is a long process. You're supposed to make up a story, develop it and write it down. Then you will find producers and directors, casta actors and more. Then there is cutting and editing and now the voluntary age classification. Then the film will be marketed before we can go to a cinema and hopefully see a fantastic movie. As a pragmatic middle party, we choose to see in every political proposal precisely the proposal and not the party behind it. So also in this case. The government has come up with a proposal that we will support, as the proposal involves some simplification of outdated bureaucracy but also a fundamental position on parental responsibility. The proposal contains three parts, Mr President. Part one deals with free age classification of films. In 2011, the so-called adult censor was abolished. This means that not all films are screened before they are screened except for films aimed at children under the age of 15. It is the Swedish Media Council that does the review, as we have heard in previous posts. Non-audited films automatically have a limit of 15 years, even if a review had not shown dangerous or inappropriate content for younger children. We also share the view that the cost should reasonably be below the film policy budget. Part two is about removing the requirement for an authorisation card. Before the film censor, the so - called adult censor, was abolished, a permit card was introduced. Permit cards need the cinemas for each film to certify that it is permitted to show that particular film in the event that the cinema is visited for supervision. Given today's digital world, license cards are meaningless. The information that a film may be shown in a cinema can be found in easier ways, for example digitally. It is also more cost-effective. The third and final part is about extending the accompanying rule. That part we had several long discussions on, and it took the longest time to decide on because the issue becomes a principled position while at the same time discussing the role of the State's point of view. This is how we've reasoned. In most families, parents know their children best. Of course, there are exceptional cases, but having an individual-level discussion on this issue is not fair. Here we share the government's view of the parent's or guardian's primary responsibility for what film or information a child should be allowed to see in the company of an adult. To do three levels of age classification is, in our view, a good thing. It will be easier for parents or legal managers to choose the most suitable film for children of a certain age. We want the cinemas to have an audience, and we want to see a lot of movies. Then we need to make it easier for children to see properly adapted films. Mr President, I would like to We support the Government's proposal and call for a rejection of all reservations.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-82	Mr President, I would like to It was interesting to hear Angelika Bengtsson's speech, where she thoroughly reviewed the different parts of the bill. But that's not what I'm after. I would like answers to the question of the 97% of film consumption that does not take place in the cinema. The Angelika Bengtsson, together with Niclas Malmberg and Ida Karkiainen, propose to the Riksdag and want a decision on this afternoon is 3 percent of the film consumption. But the mass of films, the 97 percent consumed on plates and mobile phones by streaming and other things, has no protection at all for children. My questions are exactly the same as I asked Ida Karkiainen. She could not answer at all and also took to an ugly grip: She asked me questions that I didn't have a line time to answer. I would therefore like to ask Angelika Bengtsson to ask me any questions in the first line round, and I promise to answer. But my questions are: what are you going to do about the 97% of films for which there is actually no age recommendation today? And why are you so opposed to moving from a regulated to a self-regulated film review?
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-86	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Cecilia Magnusson, for the questions! I thought that Ida Karkiainen answered the questions she received and that I have also received – as I said, they are the same questions. Let us start with self-regulation. What's it gonna look like? I think Cecilia Magnusson can develop it even more, because in the reservation we have read, we thought it was too unclear and not specifically specified what it should look like. I'm gonna ask you a question back. They want the National Media Council to be given a new assignment. It's something I'm stuck with, because it's very strange. They want the Swedish Media Council to become an expert authority and have support from the latest research. But how does it go with you withdrawing the grant to the National Media Council? Should scientists work for even lower wages than they do today? What's that supposed to look like? And what will the National Media Council do in view of the fact that they have enough to do today? They're almost on their knees, and you're gonna cut their contributions. How does that make sense?
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-89	Mr President, I would like to I could interpret at least two questions from Angelika Bengtsson. Yes, there is an entire investigation going through in detail the new organization of the Media Council. So if Angelika Bengtsson not only read our reservation on the matter but went into the inquiry that has been referred and whose proposal is simply to put on the board of Parliament, she would see that there is a majority to change the role of the Council. It goes without saying that the Media Council would then have a different role. They would get rid of certain tasks that they have today, such as what you are now proposing: the film review, which would lie with the industry itself. Instead, they become a competence authority, which also has the opportunity to review in a completely different way. I have thus answered the questions: what is there to read about our proposal, which we support, in the investigation. But Angelika Bengtsson has not answered my questions. 97% of film consumption will have no regulation. Why not? Why are Angelika Bengtsson and the Swedish Democrats, the Social Democrats and the Green Party against actually increasing the protection of children against harmful media influences? And why is it against self-regulation?
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-92	Mr President, I would like to It is a long process to move from investigation to majority here in Parliament – I think the honourable Member knows that too. In this case, we thought the government had a better proposal; that is to be a middle party. As I mentioned in my speech, we take a position on every proposal that lies, regardless of which party is behind the proposal. Today, we think that the government has a better proposal, although it can accept saying so. I think that school and parents should strengthen children from as early a age as possible so that they can take responsibility and choose which films they should see and what information they process. In the end, we think that parental responsibility applies. Parents have a responsibility for what films and information children take part in. That is how we have reasoned and what we have come up with in relation to this proposal and our answers.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-94	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Angelika Bengtsson, for your speech! It is very interesting to hear from the Swedish Democrats that they have had long discussions on the issue of the escort rule, which means that eleven-year-olds should see films that are actually intended for those who are fifteen years old and upwards. They have had long discussions, says Angelika Bengtsson. Since I know roughly how the parties work, it tells me that different views have been expressed, but the majority of the group has apparently decided that it is in favour of the government's proposal. So in the reasoning it has been inclined to think that those who are eleven years old should have the full right to see films that are intended for those who are fifteen years old and above. That was the reasoning of your parliamentary group. This is a very big responsibility, Angelika Bengtsson, which you place on the parents. Here we make decisions and make laws. You're making a law that 11-year-olds are supposed to watch movies for the 15-year-olds. Such films – not all of them, because there are some films that are absolutely justified for 11-year-olds to see – can, according to the Ombudsman for Children, contain violent episodes, anxiety-charged scenes and so on. You agree that we are deciding here that this will be possible for the Swedish people, and then you are entirely responsible for the parents. It's up to them to decide on this. I wonder what comment you have on this.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-98	Mr President, I would like to I really have great respect for putting children at the centre. Many of our political proposals are also based on this. But we think that the Swedish Media Council here is given overall responsibility for the classification of films based on three levels, as I mentioned in my speech. A film that is extremely violent will probably not have a 15-year age limit, but it should probably be seen by the elderly. Here, too, as I mentioned in previous shifts, we think that parental responsibility is stronger. It is the parents who should make sure that children go and see the right movies. But we can ask the question like this: We have a family with two children, one who is six years old and one who is ten years old. Aren't they supposed to go and watch the same movie? If so, what will happen? With this simplification and enlargement, I think it will also be easier for families to go and see the same films. I'll stay there for a while.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-101	Mr President, I would like to If we stick to the proposal that is before us, it is a question of giving 11-year-olds the opportunity to watch films that are intended for 15-year-olds. If I quote the Ombudsman for Children, maybe I can still get Angelika Bengtsson to react to it. Here's what the Ombudsman for Children writes.We stress the importance of parental responsibility, but since it is impossible to demand or verify that guardians are escorts, it is not reasonable to open all films to children from the age of 11 in an adult's company. Nor can it be excluded that an automatic 11-year limit for viewing films in adults' company by some adults could be wrongly perceived as an authority's assessment that films with harmful violent accounts are suitable to show to children from 11 years of age. ..................................................... I get very worried, Angelika Bengtsson. Of course, the Swedish Democrats are allowed to make whatever decisions you want, but you have to take the consequences of us making laws here– we decide. I do not expect the Christian Democrats' motion to go through. You support the government in enabling 11-year-olds to watch films where there are violence and a lot of other things that we do not want them to be exposed to based on their well-being. It's your responsibility now. Then you'll have to take that responsibility. They say it's a little movie that's seen at the movies. In fact, there are still 15 million cinema visits per year. I think we have a responsibility here to show the parents and give them support in this with age determination. I am deeply concerned about SD's line on this issue.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-106	Mr President, I would like to This is how it is to be a middle party – you take a position on the proposals that lie ahead. In this particular proposal, we believe that the government has the best reasoning. I have also read what the Ombudsman for Children has said. I even marked it in my papers here. We have discussed this in the group. As I have mentioned, it took a long time and, precisely as regards the extension of the accompanying rule, we got stuck in a debate. However, we concluded that what is said in the bill is the best thing for the film today. You put parental responsibility in place. I cannot stress enough that children at an early age should learn to take care of source criticism and become strong, especially through school. But if we can also teach them through the film, that's fantastic. Then we will see how this proposal goes. Turns out it's going to be chaotic and terrible and that all 11-year-olds end up in some kind of shock state because they watch too many violent movies, you have to take a stand on it again. But right here and now and today, we stand by our decision to support the government proposal.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-108	Mr President, I would like to Since 1 January, we have one of many long-awaited new film policy in place. We note that the concern expressed by some, including in this House, that stronger film support would also result in increased ticket prices in cinema has been seriously disappointed. We can also note that much of what Cecilia Magnusson mentioned in her speech has already been dealt with in the new film policy. What the Red-Green Government is doing now is to further improve film policy by creating opportunities for more films to be available in Swedish cinemas for children and young people up to fifteen years old. Two important changes are now being made. One is that the fee that previously existed for getting a film age-assessed is removed. The fee has meant that many distributors have chosen not to have their films tested for age, with the result that there has been an automatic 15-year limit on those films. That is to say, children and young people up to fifteen have not been able to see those films at all. When the fee is removed, we can assume that more distributors will have their films assessed by age and that those films will then be available to children and young people. The second change is that the accompanying rule already in place with regard to the seven- and eleven-year limits is also introduced for the fifteen-year limit. In other words, those under fifteen are not allowed to watch the film alone or with peers, but those over eleven are allowed to watch the film with their parents or any other adult. We can see that on this issue too, as in most other aspects of cultural policy, it is within the Alliance that the greatest differences exist. We have heard here in the debate that KD and M are the major counterparts. I think it is above all the Christian Democrats who take an extreme position here. You don't want parents to be competent enough to judge whether their own children should be able to watch a movie with them. Several have been personal in their speeches here. I can be, too. I have a 14-year-old daughter. I wouldn't want her to go see a movie with a 15-year-old limit alone or with her friends. But if it is a film that I believe we have a common exchange of, I would like to be able to see it with her, and then not only on DVDs, where we already see it, but also in cinemas. At all, I find it difficult to find cultural experiences that suit both the parent and the child as a parent of children in their younger teens. Perhaps the most important improvement with this bill is because we create the conditions for more cultural experiences that the family can share together. I support the proposal of the Committee on Culture.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-115	Mr President, I would like to I cannot help but take a line on Niclas Malmberg when he says that the Christian Democrats have an extreme stance on this issue. In that case, the extreme is also what the Ombudsman for Children expresses in his referral. The Ombudsman for Children is very extreme in this case, according to Niclas Malmberg. The County Administrative Board of Västernorrland is also extremely extreme when it writes in its referral as follows: Our overall view is that children's need for protection from harmful exposure in this case outweighs minor children's right to see films allowed from fifteen years of age together with a person who is 18 years of age. Niclas Malmberg and the Green Party have a very large responsibility. We make laws. The government will come up with a proposal that will go through. Our extreme position, shared by the Ombudsman with several consultation bodies, will not be approved in Parliament, but it is the government's and Niclas Malmberg's line that will apply. Eleven-year-olds should be able to watch films intended for people aged 15 and over in the company of an adult. We make laws. Niclas Malmberg will be there to press the yes button. Then we place the responsibility entirely on the parents. I believe that the line that we have and that the Ombudsman for Children and others also have is not very extreme.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-118	Mr President, I would like to What is extreme is Roland Utbolt's argumentation. He makes it sound as though it is now free for 11-year-olds to go and see films with a recommended age of 15. He also makes it sound as if the responsibility now lies entirely with the parents without any kind of guidance. That is not the case. Age limits will still exist. The 15 - year limit is then a clear recommendation to parents so that they can consider whether it is a film that is suitable for the child to watch with the parents or not. If one then finds that it is a film that the child is mature enough to see, one must also be considered as a parent of age to make that decision. The Christian Democrats often talk about safeguarding family policy. But what the Christian Democrats do in practice is to govern what families are allowed to make decisions about. Families and parents are underage. What we do with this proposal is not to let go of the opportunity for 11-year-olds to watch film alone. We create better conditions for families to have common cultural experiences. Is that bad?
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-122	Mr President, I would like to What is at issue here is not not to believe the parents to be able to do this. Let me say something a little controversial in this context: During the ten years I have worked with, among other things, homelessness and people with addiction and psychiatric problems, I have seen that many parents need support when it comes to deciding what the children should do and what they should see. Not all parents can do this, and support is needed. What the government is showing in what is now decided, as is also pointed out by the Ombudsman for Children, is, among other things, that one can give parents a feeling that all films that are intended for 15-year-olds and older people are now okay to see even for 11-year-olds. That is the meaning of this. I mean, you're supposed to support your parents. This has been the case in the past – parents have been able to say that a film has a fifteen-year limit and that the child should therefore not see the film in question. The parents have a great responsibility, and I do not think it is always easy to decide what the children should see. We are a family party, but I do not think – to return to the first round of the line shift – that we are particularly extreme in this. In this case, we rely on consultation bodies which are quite heavy.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-125	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats don't tell the parents. The Christian Democrats do not control the families. The starting point for Roland Utbolt's argument is that there are families with social problems. We know that there is, but this needs to be dealt with separately. It is not possible to outlaw all families on the basis of this problem. Age limits are a clear recommendation. If a film is given a fifteen-year limit, this does not signal that it is free to see the film even for younger children. However, the accompanying rule allows parents to assess that their children can watch the film together with a parent. It allows parents to judge whether their children are mature enough to watch the film in question. We then create the conditions for more families to have more common cultural experiences, which I think is something extremely positive. The Christian Democrats have a long tradition with a problematic approach to film. The party pushed ahead earlier so that it would not be allowed to show cinema on Sundays at all. The Christian Democrats have left that position far behind, and I believe that it will also be associated with this policy when it is seen to be working.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-129	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by giving my colleague, Roland Utbolt, quite right when he says that the Social Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Green Party are leaving children and adults in the lurch with this bill. I fully agree with this – you do not have any answers! It is a bit meager to hear Niclas Malmberg begin by saying that the new film policy has now finally come into force. It's only been a month, and so far, no cinemas have been shut down because of the increase in movie VAT. In addition, Niclas Malmberg, a number of the seven announcements made by the Riksdag in connection with the film bill remain. You've done wrong-- now you have to step back and do the right thing. When do you intend to deliver what the Riksdag has requested you to deliver? Do this before you stand here and enhance yourselves! Here we now have a proposal that does not give much. 3% of film consumption takes place in cinema, while 97% of all films are consumed elsewhere. What are you going to do to help parents get advice on movies that they are going to show their children? What are Niclas Malmberg and the Green Party going to do with these 97% of film consumption?
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-134	Mr President, I would like to The government has started to work on most of the announcements made by the Riksdag. Most are also debugged, though not all – for example, the VAT issue is an issue where we have different views. As regards what we have handled, Cecilia Magnusson seems to have missed that since 1 January we have strengthened the resources for the Swedish Media Council to work on how children and young people are easily exposed to harmful media influences on the internet. This mission has existed in the past; now we have also increased resources. Where were the alliance parties when we increased the funding for the Swedish Media Council? Where were the Moderates? The Moderates seem to have missed out on the policy already being pursued. Furthermore, the Moderates have not budgeted for it. The Moderates also seem to have missed that the problem of the Internet is not something that we can easily deal with nationally. Films that are shown in cinemas in Sweden can be handled nationally, but when it comes to the internet we need to work together across borders. This is also exactly what we are doing. The EU is working on a new AV directive. We have received information from the Committee on Culture about Sweden's position and that Sweden is strongly in favour of increasing the protection of minors in terms of online supply. Cecilia Magnusson seems to have completely missed the fact that Sweden is acting strongly within the EU on these issues.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-139	Mr President, I would like to It is exciting to hear an environmental party that does not like EU cooperation talk so well about the EU. Thank you for that, Niclas Malmberg! However, I am very concerned when a government representative says that we have different views on announcements. It is clear: once the Riksdag has issued an announcement, the Government has nothing to do but deliver this. There is no room for different views on these issues. When it comes to being able to get an age recommendation on film, there are good examples from Finland, which for several years has had self-regulation. The industry puts age recommendations on the films. The Finnish Media Council trains, gives recommendations and monitors that this is done. There is an investigation that has proposed exactly this. This investigation is on the table of the government pending proposals. What is wrong with self-regulation? It would allow us to gain support for parents and children, as Roland Utbolt has requested. Why is the government opposed to proposals that help and support parents in parenting? Give answers, Niclas Malmberg, instead of rambling about the EU and other questions! We can do a great deal in Sweden to address this issue, but the Social Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Green Party do not want this. Give us answers on what you want to do to protect the 97% of film consumption that takes place elsewhere than in cinemas!
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-145	Mr President, I would like to As far as the announcements are concerned, VAT change is a budgetary issue. It was impossible for the government to handle this announcement for a change on 1 January 2017, as Cecilia Magnusson and the Alliance – when pushing through the announcement – should have realized. The announcements that have been possible to handle quickly have been handled quickly. The announcements that take longer to deal with will have to be dealt with in the longer term. Cecilia Magnusson talks about an investigation, but she does not mention that the consultation bodies were deeply divided when the investigation was referred. It was not possible for the government to proceed with this investigation, since the consultation bodies had so different views. The industry is divided – it is not that one wants to take this responsibility unitedly. Some people do, but some people don't. I do not rule out the possibility of self-regulation in this area in the future, but the industry must first agree. Until then, we have to deal with this issue from the point of view of the situation we are currently in. Even if the Moderates of an alliance government were to run over some of the industry's parties, one might not be able to run over the Christian Democrats. The Moderates and Christian Democrats are the parties that are furthest apart from each other when it comes to film politics, and they block each other. The difference between the cooperation of the Red Greens and the Alliance in cultural policy is that red-green cultural policy is based on the Social Democrats and the Green Party raising ideas and affirming each other's proposals and being able to implement a strong cultural policy, while the Alliance is blocking each other. We saw eight years of alliance politics, where in principle nothing happened in the field of culture because they blocked each other.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-151	Mr President, I would like to Finally, we have received the Social Affairs Committee's report A new health law. Mr President, I would like to I could choose to talk about the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's open comparison for 2016 which shows more overcrowding, increased birth defects in newborns and large differences between county councils and regions. I could also immerse myself in SKL's, Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils, annual comparisons of healthcare in Sweden's 21 county councils and regions, which also show differences depending on where you live and who you are. The challenges are great here, but I can say that I am a happy slipperyer, because Halland has a positive outcome and is at the top of various measurements. Mr President, I would like to I shall return to talking about the new Health Act. It's good in many ways. The regulatory framework will be more understandable, clear and transparent. The new law, which has a new structure and structure, will take effect on 1 April 2017. We Moderates and other parties in the committee support it. On the other hand, Mr President, we Moderates have a reservation which I would like to support, paragraph 1. And why do we do that? Because we see that there are challenges that affect the new health law. Mental ill health is increasing. There are great differences in our country. There are differences between men and women. And we see that sickness rates are increasing. How, then, should we reverse the trend of increasing sickness rates? We have put forward several proposals in various areas. With the new law, it is important to reverse the development both for the individual and for society. Then, Mr President, the Health Act has a central role to play in breaking the long-term sick leave. Already today, support and assistance are to be provided and studies offered in order to be able to return to work. We Moderates have not been given a hearing for this yet, but we believe that the responsibility of health care to actively contribute to the return of sick leave to work should be clarified in the Health Care Act and propose that this law, in line with the parliamentary social security inquiry's proposal, should include requirements for treatment plan and rehabilitation plan and requirements for collaboration between employers, the Social Insurance Agency and the Employment Service. This, Mr President, is part of breaking the trend of increasing sickness rates. It is also part of taking responsibility, hence our reservation.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-158	Mr President, I would like to I have had a bad cold, so I will probably keep my speech very brief. As the President understands, a male cold is not to be played with. Today's debate is about the bill A new health law. In addition, six exercise requests from general exercise time are treated. The new law will replace the current health law. The aim of the new law is to make the regulatory framework more transparent and clear, but also to make it more consistent with the intention of a targeted framework law. The new Health Act has a new structure and structure. Otherwise, the proposal for a new law is mainly subject to linguistic and editorial changes. The Act shall enter into force on 1 April 2017. Mr President, I would like to During the general period of exercise, the Swedish Democrats raised a motion to add a wording to the Health Act that family members should receive support and that this should be announced to the government. It should be borne in mind that the county councils and health care services today have no obligation to support adult relatives. On 1 July 2009, a new provision was introduced in the Social Services Act for municipalities to offer support to relatives. There is therefore no corresponding provision in the Health Act. This is, in our view, a shortcoming, as many patient organisations feel. The National Centre of Competences for Relatives has analysed various county council plans and can conclude that the family perspective is very little developed and that the understanding of relatives' needs is not sufficient. In addition, county councils often lack systematic work with family support. In the county councils where adult family support works, this is often due to local initiatives or the work of enthusiasts. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has also pointed out that municipalities' attempts to collaborate with county councils on support for relatives are often met with poor response. Landstingen does not see what they have to gain by supporting the relatives, partly because the county councils do not get paid for this through the compensation system, and partly because the assignment to support adult relatives is not clearly formulated in the law. In order to get county councils to prioritise such work, we believe it is of the utmost importance that the county councils' responsibility for support to adult relatives is clarified in the new Health Care Act. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-165	Mr President, I would like to Laws come and go, inequalities in health and health care persist. That is my theme at the beginning of the debate on the new health law. It is a new law that is more relevant built up and that possibly gives a little better orientation. That's good, and we're behind that. However, what the Left wants with reservation 3, which I support, is for the proposed new Health Act to be supplemented by a clarification that healthcare should work to prevent ill health and reduce the great inequalities in health. We believe that efforts in the form of more active preventive work with a focus on public health should be included in the new Health Care Act. In the report Public Health in Sweden 2016, a report published annually by the Swedish Public Health Agency, we can see that public health has had a positive development among the population as a whole. Life expectancy is increasing and people above retirement age have in several ways had a more favourable health development than younger age groups – we can think about that. The negative is that there is an increase in health inequalities between different socio-economic groups. If you divide the population by level of education, you can see that it is almost all those with the shortest education who have the worst health. The difference in service life between groups with different educational backgrounds has increased in recent decades, and this is serious. Women with only primary education have had the least favourable development. In that group, the remaining life expectancy at the age of 30 has hardly increased at all in the last twenty-year period. Here you should have made different types of more manifestic efforts a long time ago. Even among men with only primary education, life expectancy has stopped growing in recent years. This trend is clear, while those of us with longer education have had a better prognosis in terms of service life. This is about class and health. There is a greater difference in average life expectancy between persons with short and long education than there is between women and men. It's clear. All major causes of death in the population – heart disease, stroke, cancer, accidents, suicides and alcohol-related diagnoses – are more common among those with short education. This group also reports worse general health status and greater mental illness. The decline in cardiovascular mortality has slowed down among women educated in primary education alone. It's harder to get it down in that group. Even self - esteemed health has deteriorated.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-174	If you read the Care Analysis report Preventing to bridge, which deals with the prevention of healthcare from an equality perspective, it is obvious that we can do so much more than we do today, and then we have to work with all the legal spaces we have. In an international comparison, we see that Swedish healthcare is just below the average when it comes to discussing living habits. We should be in the front line, I think. It is also clear that county councils' control of healthcare does not focus on equality. It's kind of a free choice of work. You can also think about that. All county councils think this is important. They write that way because it sounds good, but only a third sees it as important that primary care should have a preventive mission. One could build into different teams that focus should be strengthened in different ways. This also applies in the law we are about to change. The fact that only one third of county councils provide earmarked compensation for preventive work aimed at reducing health gaps is bad. I wish politicians at national level played on the whole piano and used all the tones and not just a few. Equal health should not only be discussed in different contexts and investigated, but there must be more workshop at different levels. Therefore, it would have been logical to give a clearer emphasis to public health in the preventive work of this legislative proposal. There is so much we can do from the Health Act down to the county councils. We need to send out clear signals. I request the approval of reservation 3 and the rejection of the other motions.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-181	Mr President, I would like to Today we are going to decide on a new health law. It may sound more dramatic than it is, because the bill is about adapting the health care law to the changes that have occurred since the law came into existence and making it more transparent, clear and accessible. Basically, all the provisions of the current law are transferred to the new law, but in order for it to become more of a targeted framework law, as it is intended, some detailed regulations are transferred to regulations or regulations. Mr President, I would like to The report also includes the preparation of a follow-up exercise and a number of individual exercises from general exercise time. All the motions contain sensible and worthy proposals, and much will surely return to the Riksdag in other contexts where it suits better, can do more good and have more impact. As is already provided for in the legislation, is investigated or is under work in the Government Office, and so can meet wisely and more effectively through agreements and in collaboration with other authorities and welfare actors. That is why, Mr President, I support the proposal and reject the motions.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-186	Mr President, I would like to It is very good that in the law we are going to decide on, we are going to have this change towards previous law. It is honest and clearly written, and for the people in the care that are not lawyers this becomes much easier to follow. I would like to comment on the wording of Chapter 3. Section 1 under General. It says that the person with the greatest need should be given priority in healthcare. It is excellent, and it is the same wording in the patient law. I'm on 4th chapter. Section 1 of the Organisation states that publicly funded health care activities must be organised in such a way as to promote cost-effectiveness. Of course, we want tax money to be used correctly. The interpretation of needs has become problematic in recent years. This is based on a parliamentary decision of 1997. Three basic principles were then laid down on how to prioritise between different needs. The highest is the principle of human dignity of the equal value of all. Then comes the principle of need and solidarity: that resources should be allocated according to needs. In third place, the principle of cost-effectiveness, which states that when choosing between different activities or actions, a reasonable relationship between costs and impacts in terms of improved health and improved quality of life should be sought. We would have liked to have these principles included in the Health Care Act and also in the Patient Act. We missed out on the fact that they weren't there. Today, there is a lack of clarity as to what is to be included in the wording, and what is to be added to cost-effectiveness. This ambiguity has been made clear in recent years in the debate between the various actors. We have the State Medical Ethics Council, which has to monitor ethical principles in health care. We have the Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency, which has to see how medicines should be priced and subsidised. We have the Priority Centre in Linköping, which is our important resource when it comes to research and evaluation of priorities, and we have the Medical Products Agency and the NT Council. The debate shows that there are different approaches to how to assess needs and how much a treatment should cost. Some groups of patients are in a tight spot here, such as those with rare serious diseases. It is diseases that in some cases lead to death. What will be the cost of treating them? We wanted to exercise on this and to clarify the parliamentary decision of 1997. However, according to Kammarkansliet, this exercise could not be aroused for formal reasons. I am therefore referring to it in order to include it in the Minutes. We come again on this issue during the general period of exercise this autumn, and it may be that one of the others who is debating it will also raise it with the Government Office.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-195	Mr President, I would like to I came here this morning thinking that we would have a debate on the SfU8 report, but I have been told that I am the only speaker on the list because the other has deleted. Nevertheless, I intend to make our views known. So what we are dealing with is the SfU8 report, which deals with the proposal for the follow-up to the Return Directive and the Long-Term Residents Directive. The background to the proposal is that Sweden has received back-up from the European Commission regarding how the two directives have been implemented in Swedish legislation. In the report, the Swedish Democrats have two reservations, and I would like to start by calling for their approval. In the first reservation, we refer to some improvement proposals that we have actually raised already the first time the Return Directive was dealt with. Even then, and we have been doing so for a long time, we pointed out that there were shortcomings in the way in which Swedish migration policy is conducted and that the opportunities provided by the directive should be exploited in terms of having good control and strengthening the regulatory framework for how migration to our country is to be carried out. For example, we point out that the time spent in the country illegally when a person has been prohibited from returning after an expulsion or expulsion has been carried out should be the maximum time allowed under the EU directive. This was not accepted at the time, and it is not something that has been chosen to support now, despite the fact that the government has put forward the view that we in Sweden should go to the strictest level in Europe to ensure that we do not provide benefits that could cause the situation that we had earlier in our country. We also highlight some aspects where legislation in our country could have been tightened up. For example, the directive provides for the possibility to take certain measures to ensure that the person who is to leave our country does not deviate before the decision is implemented when notifying a refusal or expulsion order. Not least in the light of the information that has come to us in recent months in various reviews of the large number of people who reside in our country illegally as a result of their departure from an expulsion order and that many of them are also serious criminals, in our opinion, when we follow up on how we have implemented the directive, we should take the opportunity to tighten up the legislation in this area, close the holes that exist and enable more tools to know where people have remained in the country, so as to ensure that they leave the country when they are no longer entitled to stay here. The second reservation focuses mainly on the proposals which the government actually makes in its proposal, which are a direct consequence of the European Commission's criticism. It is a question of giving those who reside in our country but who have the right of residence in another EU country and who receive a refusal from Sweden an opportunity under the directive to return first to the country in Europe where they have the right to reside before Sweden gives them a notification of expulsion, which according to the directive should always be made to the country of origin from which they once came. If these people have the right to reside in another EU country, then Sweden should not assume responsibility for sending them all the way to another country. The Government points out in the bill that this is an advantage both for the persons in question and for the Swedish enforcement of the decisions, as it gives a real opportunity for more people to choose to return to the country where they actually have the right to reside instead of digressing and hiding from the authorities. The problem we have here is that the government clearly does not want to give such a deadline. It is obvious that it has introduced as many exceptions as possible. One of these exceptions is very strange, according to our view. It is because on a few occasions you have the opportunity to apply for a residence permit even after you are staying in our country. So you stay here legally during that time. The government has chosen to see this as an opportunity to exempt these persons from the scope of the Directive, since, in its opinion, they are only covered if they stay here illegally at all times. However, since the directive sets out, for example, what applies to those who receive an expulsion order as a result of having committed a crime, and has thus remained here legally until they receive the decision, I cannot make a different interpretation than that, like myself, one believes that a person is first told that it no longer has the right to reside in a country and then receives a refusal. This means, in our view, that the directive should apply to all third-country nationals in Sweden who receive a expulsion decision. Not least is it strange that the government wants to exempt legal residents and it is so clearly pointed out that the deadline is an advantage for illegal residents. This is one of many examples of the fact that it is not worth giving those who comply with the law the correct benefits and effect in our country but gives greater benefits to those who break the law and deliberately stay here illegally in the meantime. As I mentioned earlier, there will also be a very strange final version of how this is to be carried out, and strange consequences. The legal resident is not given a chance to return to the country in Europe where the person has the right to reside, but Sweden takes direct responsibility and the obligation, through some other amendments to the Directive, to ensure that the person returns to his country of origin. How this is to be implemented is very difficult to answer, and given the other amendments made simultaneously to the directive and to our Swedish legislation, it is not enough if the person returns to the country in Europe where the person has the right of residence, but the person must follow the expulsion order that Sweden has left and thus return to the country of origin. We therefore propose that the bill be rejected in this part and that the government revise it and come back with a bill that is more appropriate and that complies with the directive as a whole, including those who reside legally in our country. The second part that we question and where we want the government proposal to be rejected is about having the opportunity to renew a period after one has stayed in the country. With regard to the time available to leave the country on a voluntary basis, our legislation on what applies if it does not renew and extend the deadline on time and expires before it has left the country is not sufficiently clear at present. There may, of course, be circumstances that make a trip that has been planned impossible. It may be that trips are cancelled or that the person becomes ill directly in connection with the departure. There should then be a possibility of extension. However, it is our opinion that this possibility should be used extremely sparingly and clearly regulated. It should not automatically be possible to renew a deadline after it has expired, but it should be limited only to exceptional cases where it is the kind of circumstances that I have just lifted that have caused us not to leave the country in time. Otherwise, if you discover in good time that the time limit given is not sufficient, you must submit your request for an extension on time. These are the two points where we are making criticisms of the government and where we do not believe that the proposal has been sufficiently worked out, as we mention in the second reservation. We also have a brief remark on how the requirement to return to the other EU country where you have the right of residence has been formulated. The directive states that this should be done without delay, but the government has chosen a formula that provides a reasonable period of time. We believe that it is not sufficiently clear whether it is made clear that reasonable time should indeed be the shortest possible time. This should also be included when the legislation is reviewed, in our opinion.
i-JMBuNijuDmeN7BSKUBvbEt	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the Social Security Committee's report 12 to be approved and for the reservation and all motions to be rejected. Let me begin by stating that the issue of social security contributions is not, in fact, just a matter of percentages. It is about something greater than percentages, and it is about which society we want to live in. It is actually about the Swedish model. It is a central part of the Swedish model that we have secure and generous joint insurance policies that protect against illness and unemployment. As a result, Sweden has a well-functioning labour market and good mobility on it. Mr President, I would like to It is common knowledge that people can get sick and that people can become unemployed. It could happen to you, and it could happen to me. As I stated in the budget debate, we have built our system on the idea that common solutions are smarter. We have built our system on the fact that common solutions are better than private insurance. We also know that countries characterised by robust public insurance and robust welfare systems have lower unemployment and higher employment rates, but also fewer social problems, including criminality. In addition, welfare states have greater social mobility, which is very important for those of us who think that politics should contribute to each individual's freedom. In short, the joint insurance policies are an important part of the construction of our society, and they are financed precisely by the social security contributions which are the subject of the committee's report. Several of the motions mentioned in the report propose different types of reductions in social security contributions. They are to be reduced for young people, they are to be reduced for older people, they are to be reduced for rural areas, they are to be reduced for suburbs, they are to be reduced for small businesses and they are to be reduced for large enterprises. No, the last one may not be proposed. Maybe I'm sounding up, and of course I shouldn't be. One should always be pragmatic and make individual assessments. However, research has been clear on the reduction of social security contributions for young people. It has been clear that this has not led to lower unemployment in that group, but rather has been very inefficient and costly to the state. It is also clear that such solutions are administratively burdensome. Mr President, I would like to If you consider what I have just said, this report is not just about percentages, but also about the fact that we believe that common insurance and common solutions are better. A society characterised by common solutions is actually more effective. As a social democrat, I believe, as I said, that the general security system has many advantages. I would argue that there are many arguments for that, and I shall mention three. General insurance is more effective than private, safe people dare more and it is better for jobs. Looking around the world, as I have mentioned before, it is precisely countries with strong general welfare systems that have the highest employment rate and the lowest unemployment rate. I therefore argue that it is right, important and necessary to leave social security contributions unchanged. I therefore support the proposal in the report. In addition to this very issue of social security contributions, I hope that all parties in this House who believe in common solutions can work together to improve our social security systems step by step in order to meet the challenges we face in the future.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-223	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the reservation contained in the report by the Swedish Democrats and the Liberals. We have just heard a great deal of the benefits of a well-developed welfare country with social security contributions, which is the basis of the very tax collection that we have and the insurance system that we have in our country. It's a security that we build together. Mr President, I would like to Just because something is generally well-motivated does not mean that it cannot be improved and that there is no more clarity as to what applies and about a coherent view and legislation on where to levy charges and what motivates them. That is exactly what the reservation is about. Today we have an exception to the social security contributions law for sportsmen and women. However, despite the fact that certain outdoor activities can already be included in this exception under the current legislation, given that they are considered sport, they do not apply to all outdoor activities. There is a lack of clarity, and there are problems for practitioners. It is simply not quite clear what applies and where the limit should be drawn. It is our opinion that the reasons that initially justified this exception in the case of sportsmen should reasonably apply to the whole of the outdoor life in which a large part of our Swedish citizens participate. We would simply like to point out that the discrepancy that exists today should be eliminated. The legislation should be clarified by ensuring that the whole of Swedish outdoor life is covered by the derogation which already covers part of it today.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-228	Mr President, I would like to I thank Paula Bieler for this. It is, of course, right and important that we have a coherent system. I am thinking about whether the proposal made by the Swedish Democrats actually leads to a more transparent system. What is to be remembered in today's system is that the associations that have this possibility are not just any associations, but must also be associated with the sports movement. It does not look exactly the same when it comes to outdoor life. If we are now opening up to this change, could it not be that we are faced with new border-drawing problems? Nevertheless, many have argued for it in a very wise way. My question to Paula Bieler is therefore: does not the change that you are proposing actually lead to even greater ambiguity and even more difficult bordering problems? There are a great many other organisations that are not included in outdoor life either, but which could then also end up in the new problem of border drawing.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-231	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mathias Tegnér for the question. Of course, as with many other cases in politics, it is a matter of assessment and a case-by-case question. We believe that the possibility that exists today for derogations is essentially about strengthening the possibilities for public health. It is about strengthening the sporting life we have and ensuring that we have good conditions in our country for those people who actually take advantage of the opportunities that exist to live good and healthy. Given that we have nevertheless formulated this as just that one should belong to Swedish Friluftsliv or their sub-organisations, there will certainly be new border drawing cases, where associations believe that they should be subject to an exception but are not currently connected to Swedish Friluftsliv. But then you also get the kind of control that Mathias Tegnér wants, that is to say, that you have an overall view with some kind of control over which activities are covered and which are not covered. I still think that is reasonable. I don't think you should let go of exceptions entirely wind by wave. But what I and my fellow party members think, and which is performed in sports and in reservations, is that public health promotion activities should be covered by the exception, regardless of whether they take place within the framework of classical sports within the Swedish Sports Federation or whether they are of the kind covered by the activities of Swedish Friluftsliv.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-234	Mr President, I would like to It is very important to work to strengthen public health. It is a work carried out by the government on many different levels. Many of these proposals were included in the draft budget that you voted against, such as strengthening the contribution to sport. I will go back to the control that Paula Bieler is talking about. There is a difference between the sports movement and the outdoor organisations. In the case of outdoor organisations, everyone has the opportunity to join. There are not the same kinds of demands that exist within the sports movement, which leads to the risk that we will have a shaky system that is not as clear as it is today. Consider, for example, a lake. Today, the lake has problems in such a way that if one sports association that carries out canoeing there, they have one rule, while Friluftspromotion has another. That is absolutely correct. But let's imagine what it would be like with your system. Let us imagine that Young Eagles would like to engage in canoeing. They are not part of the Friluftsfrämjandet, because it is another type of organization. They were supposed to fall outside. The proposal you are putting forward does not really solve the problem of demarcation. It will always be there. Then I mean that the system that exists today is well-proven, and we know that it works. There are no more and even more unclear regulations with this system. I would therefore like to argue in favour of the system of rules that exists today, which is balanced and proven and does not throw us into uncertainty. And as a social democrat, I like safety and security.
i-3163eb1a97fabb87-239	Mr President, I would like to I can tell you that, as a Swedish democrat, I also like security and security and that there is a coherent view and clarity in what applies. We note that you voted down our budget, which also included a number of reinforcements in a number of different areas. But that is a separate question. Regarding the example of Mr Tegnér, in any case, I believe that there is a clear difference. One is an association that regularly engages in a particular type of activity, which in this case is equal and equal whether it is done for sport or for the sake of its own health and recreation. You do it repeatedly and with a focus on that kind of activity. The second, in this case Young Eagles, is an association that may occasionally choose this particular activity. I do not think that this example was the best one can think of if you want to talk about borderline problems. I think what we are proposing is clear. It is a question of those who regularly engage in some form of sport or outdoor activities being treated equally in this respect. It's great that more people get the opportunity to take hold of this and that more people get to participate in everyday activities that benefit their own health and strengthen recreation and our country. It is much better than that it should be reserved for some kind of elitist clique that deals with this only on a professional basis.
