i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-1	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Dahlqvist has asked me, on the one hand, whether I am going to take any initiatives to get the Public Employment Service to table the issue of centralisation during the consultation period of the Rural Committee's report and during the government's discussion of the Government's proposal, and, on the other hand, what measures I intend to take to ensure that the Public Employment Service is following the Government's intentions regarding state presence. Every year, more than 1 million people have some contact with Arbetsförmedlingen, and the agency has several million employer contacts. All jobseekers and employers must be able to get in touch with the authority and receive appropriate support. The possibilities of digitalisation should be used, but physical meetings will continue to play an important role. There is no longer a employment office in each municipality. Since 2014, the Public Employment Service has been reviewing and changing its office network in order to adapt it to customer flows, monitor the effects of digitalisation and create a basis for effective work on the agency's mission. Since Arbetsförmedlingen began its review of the office network, major changes have taken place in the outside world, not least the large number of asylum seekers who have come to Sweden. Over the next few years, many newcomers with varying levels of education and language skills will establish themselves throughout the country, which has had and will continue to have major consequences for both the labour market and municipalities. This needs to be taken into account by Arbetsförmedlingen in the future. The Government considers that the issue of localisation of employment services offices is important and therefore commissioned the Employment Service on 8 June 2017 to report how the Agency ensures service and presence in the right place throughout the country, especially in municipalities with high long-term unemployment or many new arrivals and in vulnerable neighbourhoods. As part of this mission, the Authority shall have a dialogue with municipalities and other relevant actors at local, regional and national level. The assignment will be presented in February 2018. During the assignment, the Public Employment Service shall not make any changes leading to a reduction in the presence of the State, in addition to those that have already been decided. In case of minor changes, the Authority shall pay particular attention to aspects such as high long-term unemployment, newly arrived needs and the need for the presence of authorities in vulnerable neighbourhoods, smaller municipalities and rural municipalities. In order to ensure and strengthen access to basic government services throughout the country, the local service activities of certain government authorities need to be organised in a more coherent way. On 7 September 2017, the Government commissioned a special investigator to propose forms for a more coherent government service at the local level. The starting point is the proposals from the National Service Centre and the Rural Committee. The purpose is for the State Service Centre to be responsible for a comprehensive service organisation for local government services as of 1 January 2019. The investigator will in a first step present a plan for when the local offices will provide services regarding the activities of Försäkringskassan, the Pension Authority and the Swedish Tax Agency. The investigator will then present a plan for when services can be provided on behalf of more authorities, including the Public Employment Service. A coherent organisation provides better conditions for governing government service activities and providing high-quality government local services in a more cost-effective way.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-7	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson! The reason for my interpellation is that Arbetsförmedlingen at home in Värmland has announced a review of the offices in all municipalities. The changes proposed are the removal of the offices in Grums, Hammarö, Kil and Munkfors. In Hammarö the office has already been closed. The issue has, of course, created a strong opinion and attracted a great deal of media attention in the county. The responsible municipal councillors in the municipalities affected have also had a number of contacts with, among other things, me. Värmland is a large county, in many parts sparsely populated. Several municipalities are struggling with unemployment, while for several years we have taken a great deal of responsibility on the refugee issue. In many parts of municipalities, government services have been lost for many years. For example, Munkfors municipality, which is one of the places proposed to lose the Employment Service. It is located in the heart of Värmland and has an unemployment rate of about 11 percent and a large asylum reception. Mr President, I would like to It is therefore gratifying that the government has put regional policy high on the agenda. Examples include the ongoing process of redeployment of government jobs. The message from the government is clear: the whole country will benefit from the government's positive reforms. The fact that there is a state presence in municipalities not only provides good service to the residents – when you meet and meet, cooperation develops, and you get a better understanding of each other's local situation. This creates good conditions for efficient local solutions, not least for Arbetsförmedlingen's assignments. Nor should the symbolic value be underestimated in this context. As you can see, Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson, Arbetsförmedlingen is an important player locally. In many parts of your interpellation response, I share your view and the government's view of the need to get in touch with the agency and receive appropriate support. It is also important to take into account local parameters, such as the number of asylum seekers. That the government has commissioned the authority to account for how it ensures service and presence in the country is good, and it is good that in the meantime this mission will not be implemented any major changes that lead to reduced state presence – beyond the decisions that have already been made. I think it's great ambitions and intentions. We're working on it. We have indeed raised the question of the whole country living. But what concerns me, the Minister for Labour, is that beyond the m which has already been decided. Does this mean that these four local offices in Värmland are, so to speak, run and will be closed down? Or does that mean they get respite to see what happens to the investigation in the future?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-13	Mr President, I would like to This is an important issue raised by Mikael Dahlqvist. I hope that the government has made it clear that we want to conduct policies for a country that is sticking together. It is about reducing gaps between people, but it is also about a country that holds together regionally – between city and country and between different parts of our country. That is why we have decided to relocate a wide range of agencies, and that is why the Swedish Public Employment Service is working actively to locate the new service offices that are now being built in, for example, Söderhamn and Lycksele. So it's clear. Arbetsförmedlingen does not work with centralization and should not work with centralization. However, the employment services always have to relate to changes in society and changes in how jobseekers and employers want to communicate with the agency. Many have wanted them to be able to register without going there physically, for example via a bank ID. You can do that with a lot of other things. Employers often want direct contact with someone who knows the industry rather than being able to enter a local office. In this case, the Employment Service must relate to a desired change in the pattern of how jobseekers and employers want to have contact with the authority. The agency must of course also relate to how the population changes, as well as how unemployment and the challenges Arbetsförmedlingen has to work with change over time. For example, a temporary office is often opened when there is a larger notice. Now we have very few notice in Sweden, but this is an example of how you have to act. That is why we should always do so and ensure that resources are used effectively. Since the government considers the question of location of offices to be important, I have given Arbetsförmedlingen the task that I have presented in the answer. Värmland has 16 municipalities, and there are currently 15 offices. Hammarö and Eda are the municipalities that do not have their own offices, while Torsby has two offices. There are no decisions to close the offices in Munkfors, Grums or Kil. The Employment Service will come back to me in February with suggestions on how to look at the composition and location of its offices based on the guidelines I have outlined here. No new closure decisions should be taken during this period. As regards the offices in question – Munkfors, Grums and Kil – no such decisions have been made and are therefore not to be implemented. How it will be in the future is a bigger issue. However, we must take this issue in a broader context, when we can look at the whole. I think it is important to see that when talking about the efficient use of state resources, it is also about being able to have effective cooperation with municipalities and with employers. Of course, in this matter, it also matters where you are located. At the same time, we see that if more and more people choose to have digital contact with Arbetsförmedlingen, we need more distance service – I think it is good to be able to offer it to the citizens. Then you have to look at other forms of providing government service, and there the government service offices are an important piece of the puzzle.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-22	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Employment, for your positive answer! I share your judgment and your opinion. I have good experience of Arbetsförmedlingen, especially in smaller municipalities in Värmland, from my previous role as Municipal Commissioner. We do not recognise the criticism that is sometimes made against the Public Employment Service. They are very flexible locally and have a good cooperation with municipalities and local companies. The process that the Ministry of Labour and you, Ylva Johansson, are driving to find local solutions is suitable as a glove for smaller municipalities. I am very positive about this, and I am also very positive that we are reviewing the service. As it is today, these municipalities are responsible for government services such as the police and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. If so, they will be further affected, which would be a blow. Our common challenge is to get government services even in smaller municipalities outside the residential cities. In this case, the Arbetsförmedlingen perhaps went a little too far in Värmland, I think. It is surely the criticism that can be made of the authority, even on the basis of what happened at the time with strong immigration and massive expansion. For example, one of Sweden's largest investments is currently being made in Grums – a billion-dollar investment in the paper factory. There, however, the authority has said that it gives respite for two years. Your clear message today I am very pleased, Ylva Johansson. I am pleased with the answer, Mr President.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-29	Mr President, I would like to It is nice to hear about the good experiences of Arbetsförmedlingen in Värmland. It is, of course, a very large authority, which exists throughout the country and in the vast majority of the country's municipalities. This also means that the experience of Arbetsförmedlingen varies – some have very good experiences, while elsewhere there are significant challenges in terms of things that need to be improved. It is a big challenge for the agency to work with this. When it comes to cooperation with municipalities, I have been clear from the first day that Arbetsförmedlingen will cooperate very closely with the municipalities. I spent my first time as Minister of Labour travelling around and meeting municipal leaders together with the Employment Service to lay the groundwork for how to solve youth unemployment. I am now pleased to note that we are in the process of solving youth unemployment. We can handle a 90-day guarantee. The next challenge is the many new arrivals. We are working on this track together with the delegation for young and new arrivals, which facilitates this cooperation. Of course, where you are located is not crucial for cooperation, but it plays a role in cooperation. These are questions that Arbetsförmedlingen has to consider in the assignment that I have given to the agency. The employment agency will then come back to me with an overall assessment of the location. I can promise Mikael Dahlqvist that the government takes very seriously and seriously the issue of ensuring that we have good government service throughout the country and that not all the most important headquarters should be located in Stockholm.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-34	Mr President, I would like to There is something paradoxical in this situation – for example in Värmland, but it looks the same in many counties in our elongated country. Someone said in the '90s that the base industry is dying out. My municipality of residence Hagfors has a world-leading company that manufactures tool steel and also invests billions. Our basic industries in Värmland are doing really well. Our challenge, Ylva Johansson, is to find a workforce and to get the workforce to want to stay in these smaller towns. Such parameters on the location of public authorities may not be taken into account. But that means a lot to the symbolic value, and that means, above all, a more differentiated labour market, which also means that accompanying workers have a good chance of getting a job. This is often the case – that a partner should get a job – which is the challenge for the municipalities that are currently looking for a lot of labour. In the past they often got jobs from the police, the Tax Agency or the Employment Service. It therefore has to do with both service and creating a dynamic in the labour market. Above all, it has to do with finding labour, because the alternative-- if we don't find labour-- is terrible. We see very brightly in the labour market, and now we also have a lot of newly arrived Swedes that we will try to get in. The challenge is to break prejudice.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-39	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a constructive debate.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-40	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me what new measures I and the government intend to take to reduce unemployment in Sörmland. Labour market developments are strong. Since the government took office, more than 200 000 more people have jobs. Around 70 per cent of the employment growth has occurred among foreign born children, and the employment rate of both domestic and foreign born is now the highest since 2005, when SCB introduced measurements by country of birth. Unemployment has decreased by more than 1 percentage point since the government took office. The target set by the previous government in 2014 of 5 million employed by 2020 has already been achieved. However, major challenges remain. The share of unemployed people who are far from the labour market has increased over many years. This is mainly the case for newcomers and those who do not have completed upper secondary education. The government is working purposefully for more people to get to work. The transition of more people to education is crucial to reducing unemployment, meeting labour market needs and tackling the two-way labour market in the long term. In this autumn's budget proposal, the Government intends to further strengthen the Knowledgelift, which will fully cover approximately 90 000 training places by 2021. The government introduces an education obligation for newcomers and reinforces the requirement for all unemployed in need of training to take part in education. The government intends to introduce a loan facility to take driving licences, in a first step for some people who have been unemployed for longer periods, in order to strengthen their job opportunities. The Government also intends to simplify and strengthen employment support for employers who employ the long-term unemployed and newcomers. Sörmland has taken, and continues to take, a major responsibility for the reception of new arrivals. It is necessary for all municipalities to take responsibility for the reception in order to create better conditions for the establishment of new arrivals. The Government has therefore introduced a residence law which obliges all municipalities to receive new arrivals for residence upon instructions. Municipalities with good conditions should receive more. The government cares about a Sweden that stays together. Therefore, several government agencies are being relocated, of which parts of the Radiation Safety Authority are moving to Södermanland County, more specifically to Katrineholm. This is one way of contributing to the existence of government jobs for officials and academics outside the major cities and a way of harnessing skills throughout the country. The government has turned large deficits into surpluses in central government finances. It gives us good opportunities to invest heavily now in efforts to maintain strong employment and growth.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-49	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am very concerned about my county of Sörmland, which is so strategically located in the country and yet has such high unemployment. In addition, Sweden is in a boom. Unemployment in many parts of the country is very high but almost non-existent in other parts, because the Swedish economic boom is not noticeable throughout the country. My home municipality Flen, which is located an hour by train from Stockholm and even shorter time from Södertälje, has a large labour market that also belongs to Sörmland. Of course, many commute here from Flen to work. In Flen it is 16.1 percent unemployment. Flen is a municipality that has received many refugees and new arrivals. We have a long, proud tradition of doing so too. But I don't think it's ever historically looked this bad. It was therefore interesting when I received the analyst at Arbetsförmedlingen, who had looked at the figures for Sörmland, how he explained the reasons why there is such high unemployment in Sörmland. The unemployment rate is 10.2 per cent in the county. First of all, the analyst says that Sörmland is an old industrial county that has had difficulty changing; second, that young people in Sörmland are less inclined than others to study at college; and thirdly, that it is difficult for groups born outside Europe to enter the labour market. I think his analysis is interesting. It is a much broader analysis than to explain unemployment routinely by the fact that we have received many new arrivals. In Sörmland there are also foreign born who after many, many years have not entered the labour market. I know people in Flen municipality who have been outside the labour market for 20 years and who have been walking around in the SFI system time and time again. If you also have children, you should be able to continue with SFI. The government should really take hold of this in order to find solutions so that you can bring your little child to school with you. I was on a study visit to a training provider in Flen a few years ago. There it had been solved by having an open children's business in the next room. The women I met were dentists from Syria. They could continue to read their SFI without interruption. It could be a solution to look at. Yesterday I took out the monthly statistics from Arbetsförmedlingen and really try to understand why it looks like it does in my home country. I have looked at people born in Sweden who live in Katrineholm municipality, who have been openly unemployed and applicants in programmes with activity support and been out of work for more than 24 months. Between August 2016 and August 2017, this group has increased by 14.6 per cent. So they have been unemployed for more than 24 months. In Flen municipality, open unemployed and applicants in programmes with activity support born in Sweden have increased by 12.1 per cent from August 2016 to August 2017. I don't think we've had much notice during this period. I have no answer as to why, but I am very concerned that it looks like this. But you have to have a policy that makes companies dare and want to hire. I look forward to a continued debate with the Minister for Labour on this.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-59	Mr President, I would like to This is a very important question, because just as Lotta Finstorp says it is doing very well for Sweden, but it is not going really well for everyone in Sweden. That is why an active policy is needed to ensure that even those who, for various reasons, are far removed from the labour market have a chance to take part in the strong job growth that we have at the moment. The truth is, there are many companies that start, grow and want to hire. That is not where we have the big problem today, but the big problem is twofold. On the one hand, there are many companies looking for the right skills for the job vacancies and, on the other hand, we have unemployed people who are not suitable for the job vacancies, those who are very far from the labour market. It is gratifying that politics can really make a difference there. Lotta Finstorp quoted an analysis manager at Arbetsförmedlingen who said that it is about adaptability, about young people with a low level of education or low motivation for education and about foreign born. Much of this is about investing heavily in education, but it must be done in a flexible way. Let me take an example of one that I think is a good way to work, which we call local tracks to work. You do that in Eskilstuna. I had a chance to make a visit there last week. In and around Eskilstuna there are many new workplaces in warehouses and logistics. It is jobs that do not require a long education but require professional skills to be able to take them. It has now, in cooperation with the industry, created a special training aimed at new arrivals with sfi and expertise in warehouses and logistics. I got to meet those who had started this education and the very committed and wonderful teachers who worked with this. The students told me that they felt as if they had won when they entered the education, because they were so sure that they would get a job when they were finished. Companies also volunteer with internships and help with what you need to be able to. And the education is adapted so that you can train the Swedish language and get the professional knowledge you need to gather. This model is exactly what I think we should use locally, because it is also a way of greatly increasing the motivation of people who may not be very motivated for studies. But when that job is visible when you are finished with the education, the motivation for many people to both learn Swedish and learn a profession increases. The Government has given a commission to the Delegation for Young and Newcomers to invest in this, and we invest increased resources in the budget bill that will be presented next week to the Riksdag in order to be able to work more with developing the local job tracks to the jobs that exist in the municipalities. There is a need for a little extra resources, because it costs some people to produce specific training materials and to design the training courses so that they are adapted to this. The model now used in Eskilstuna, of course, I would like to spread to many other municipalities in Sörmland and to the rest of the country. I believe that this is a success path for creating the important bridge between those who are far removed from the labour market and the job vacancies, which are currently many.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-66	Mr President, I would like to Local track I believe in a lot, because the conditions to hire and dare to hire are very different out in the country. It cannot be trusted that the economic boom will last a few more years, even if sometimes in this House it sounds like it would always be like this. But we who have been around for a long time know that it will fold in a few years, and then we are in a recession. That is why it is important to equip both the country and people for the coming recession. I don't want to stand here and be the devil's lawyer, but we all know that's what it looks like. In the 2014 election campaign, it was rather loud from the Social Democrats, and perhaps the Minister for Labour was the one who was the most vocal about, for example, phase 3 being removed. Everyone would get real jobs in the form of extra services and trainee jobs. I would like the Minister only to mention something about why it has not taken off. I do not think that those who are new arrivals are the ones who will primarily receive extra services, because you need to be more equipped. But there are others who could take them. Then I think of those who have been unemployed for more than 24 months. In the midst of a boom, as many as 14 percent in some parts of Sörmland are unemployed and have been unemployed for so long. The fact that they have not got a foothold in the labour market during the upswing of the boom is a matter of concern to me. I think you would have to think a lot more about guttering than about guttering, and that is what the Minister for Employment and I have been in this House debating before. It is not acceptable for one minister to try to impose burdens on businesses while another minister is struggling with his beaks and claws to get more people to get a real job. This is where you have to keep pace. The signal system – just take the 3:12 rules – means you don't dare to hire, because you don't know what kind of proposal it will be. The Minister's answer mentions the Radiation Safety Authority in Katrineholm. It is great to move it out, but very few of the long-term unemployed will get a job there. In Katrineholm there is already an authority, IAF, where two out of three employees are commutators. I think that the Radiation Safety Agency is highly specialised and that it is not very easy to find all the employees in Sörmland but that many will commute from Stockholm. There won't be many unemployed Sörmrömnarna who will get these jobs. But maybe someone who got a job in Sörmland has a follower with a high academic education who can get a job there. I am concerned about how to solve this problem. I think it's more about letting go. Companies need to have easier rules. This is all connected. Then even more people may dare to hire. Perhaps it is necessary to relax labour law rules in order for companies to dare to hire. As far as training contracts are concerned, I do not know what has happened to the measures that have not really got off the ground. I see figures on how few have come in versus what was promised: In July, 425 people had received a trainee service. These may be the wrong numbers, I don't know, but that's less than 11⁄2 percent of the target set. Surely it is for those who have been out of work for more than 24 months that these jobs would work well.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-75	Mr President, I would like to There were many questions from Lotta Finstorp, and I will try to take them all. When the old government ruled Sweden had sky high youth unemployment. One of the major issues in the electoral movement was that we should remedy this, and we boldly promised to introduce a 90-day guarantee: no young person would go unemployed for more than 90 days. To do this, we would introduce trainee jobs, training contracts and other things. We have done so, and we have managed youth unemployment. Happily, the vast majority of young people have been able to get jobs even without subsidies. Trainee jobs, aimed at young people with upper secondary skills, became redundant as many young people with upper secondary skills are sought after in the labour market. That is why trainee jobs are now being abolished. We are now facing new challenges with the long-term unemployed and newcomers. We're gonna make it, too. It will not be easy, but we managed youth unemployment and we will do the same. When you listen to Lotta Finstorp you can think that the companies in Sweden are doing badly. It does not; the companies in Sweden are doing great. We have enormous growth. We have a large order intake, strong exports, few notice in the private sector and strong job growth with over 100,000 new jobs in the private sector since this government took office. So companies are doing very well. Their main concern is the availability of skills, and here, of course, they depend on a functioning housing policy and infrastructure efforts to solve it. No, of course, moving the Radiation Protection Agency to Katrineholm is not primarily a measure to create jobs for those who are long-term unemployed or newcomers. The measure is about the government being convinced that there is important competence that the state also needs in Sörmland. Lotta Finstorp also raised the issue of SFI for parental leave. I share this view, and so the government allocates resources for this in the budget we are now presenting so that we can continue with SFI even when you are on parental leave. Let me also say something about the extra services introduced by the government, which are partly a replacement for phase 3. This means that you will be employed on a proper salary in order to be able to do a job that needs to be done. On Monday, I was in Arboga. There you have many new arrivals, and you also have problems with people who have lived for a long time in Arboga but still not learned good Swedish. They've been tangled around on SFI without it really taking off. The Swedish-born long-term unemployed have now been offered an additional service as a language supporter. I visited a business where the participants go to SFI in the morning and participate in language support activities in the afternoon to practice talking. It was led by trained staff, but there were also people who were employed in an auxiliary position and who were previously in phase 3. I talked to one of them, and she said it was the best job she'd ever had. Another Swedish woman had been on long-term sick leave and was training now. She said she was happy every day she came to work. It's an example of a win-win situation. Those who have been far removed from the labour market have to make good money or work train to get back, while many who may not have spoken enough Swedish to get the language development going get a crucial and important language training.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-86	Mr President, I would like to The Minister says the Alliance failed in youth unemployment. We must not forget that we first went through a recession and then a very severe recession. It would have been strange if the government had not been able to cope with youth unemployment in the boom that we are now in. When there has been a recession, and this can be followed for decades, there will also be a jobless growth. You don't hire as many people as you let go when the recession came. Enough about this. I also believe that local solutions are good. We have to let go of entrepreneurship. I hear when I'm out on business that they have the worst orders but that they are uncertain about when the business cycle will turn and that if they hire there may be problems when they then have to give notice. So there is uncertainty, and so it would be good if the Minister could look at the Moderates' proposals. There are good ideas for how companies should dare to hire more. I like the public debater Gunnar Wetterberg; he is very interesting. He recently wrote in Expressen:"Today's optimism can make me tenderly creamed. Around the country, there is an economic expertise that extends happy curves three-four-five years ahead of time. Municipalities speculate on the big vulture infrastructure, the government prognoses generous reform spaces, parties bid each other for electric bicycles and pensions. ..................................................... I think there is something to this. If the government does not do the right thing in the economic boom, we will pay for it in recession for many decades to come.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-93	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we have a good economic situation, and the fall in unemployment is estimated to be less than half of the economy and more than half the government's policy. All new jobs and the entire decline in unemployment are not due to the government, but a great deal is. We need to equip ourselves for other times, and that is exactly what the government is doing. We took over large deficits in government finances. We have now turned it into surplus. Year after year the surpluses are getting bigger and bigger, because we know that Sweden needs it for worse times. In this year's budget, we can spend SEK 40 billion on reforms that make Sweden stick together and build Sweden stronger for the future. At the same time, we can pay off 40 billion on the public debt. It is important for the future that we reduce our public debt and create a space. There will be more difficult times, and then we need room in public finances. The government has made sure to do that, and that is good for Sweden.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-97	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me if I intend to give a positive message about the co-financing of specialist training in occupational medicine according to the model developed by the Swedish Foundation for Occupational Health and Safety at Work. She has also asked me whether this is not the case with what measures I intend to take to remedy the acute shortage of ST doctors in the field of occupational medicine. Occupational health care has an important function when the competence within their own operations is not sufficient for systematic work environment management or for work adaptation and rehabilitation. It is important that the number of specialised doctors in occupational medicine is increased. The Government therefore commissioned the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare to carry out a preliminary study in 2016 on how to support the provision of occupational health care skills and propose how more doctors can choose to train in the additional speciality of occupational medicine. The National Board of Health and Welfare's report is one of several important elements for the government's continued work for increased health and reduced sick leave. In order to get more doctors to train in the additional speciality of occupational medicine, the government has also allocated SEK 10 million annually to support occupational health care skills provision. As you know, the Foundation for Working Life Forum was granted funding in 2016 and 2017. Notifications regarding the award of grants are submitted annually upon application. The way in which the funds will be allocated will be prepared within the framework of the budgetary process.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-101	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is a very important issue because the average age of business doctors is very high. According to the statistics, most are around 68 years old or even a little over. The answer does not really say anything about the future, but only about things that have been done. That's good, but you also have to think about what it's going to look like in the future. Money has been available for both 2016 and 2017, and this has resulted in 23 doctors. That's pretty much what you do with-- there's room for a maximum of 14 a year-- so there's nothing to say about it. The preliminary study on how occupational health care skills can be supported has been carried out by the Foundation Arbetslivsforum together with the Swedish Occupational Health Service with financial support from the Ministry. A model has been developed for how to do it. There are also questions about, for example, headship. Now there will be a new authority that will take over this. There are many questions that I usually get when I visit occupational health. It is also about how to finance the model. I hope to have an answer today. There are also many who listen to the debate who wonder how it will be in the future. There is therefore a great deal of uncertainty because there is no information from the government about the willingness to co-finance education from next year. As a result, the shortage of resident doctors in occupational medicine will continue to increase. Today, very many women are on sick leave for mental illness, especially in the public sector. Then it is important to think new in occupational health care as well. As I began to immerse myself in this matter, I saw that the shortage of occupational doctors is only getting bigger. Among those who really need business doctors are emergency services, rail transport, shipping and parts of the aircraft. They depend entirely on the existence of occupational doctors who can issue certificates. I have the privilege of being a member of the National Board of Health and Welfare's Legal Council. There we decide, among other things, on medical exemptions for various professionals and professional women. If we do not have very good evidence from specialist doctors in occupational medicine, we will make wrong decisions. This is closely linked to ensuring that this competence is available in the field of occupational medicine. Pending a state authority being able to take over the main position, the Foundation Arbetslivsforum and Sweden's occupational health services are prepared to continue the education. But everything is kind of patched and fixed before you take altitude for what it should actually look like in the future.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-109	Mr President, I would like to First of all to the specific question: money has been applied for, and it will be answered when the processing process is completed. The answers are given directly to those who have applied for money and not in interpellation responses. Notifications are given in the reply to the project application concerning co-financing of the training. This matter with business doctors is a very important one. There is a very large shortage of occupational doctors. We can also add what the age structure looks like. The average age of occupational doctors is extremely high. These are very big challenges. When the old government closed down the Institute of Work, which previously was responsible for this education, the problems got worse. I am not going to say that everything depends on this, because I think there are other things that have been involved, but it is clear that the closure of the Work Life Institute did not make things any easier. The previous government also felt that this was an important issue and invested targeted money, rather large sums, on occupational health care. But it didn't succeed. The money was not used, and the coordination that they wanted to see was not achieved. This is not an easy thing to do. It can easily be said that this is a major and important issue and a serious problem that needs to be resolved, but it is also a question of creating solutions that can ensure the supply of skills in a sensible way. Money is set aside in the budget. The new authority is now given a special responsibility for this. I have recently appointed an organisation inquiry that has to prepare the new agency, the Agency for Safety and Health at Work, which will start on 1 June, located in Gävle. I think it is important that we have a clear responsibility for this issue in the new authority. I don't have any illusions that it's really easy to solve the skills shortage. We will certainly continue to have to work on several different tracks to ensure this. But I think it is wise to put the responsibility on the new authority. If the money applied for comes in the usual order, please let me know.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-114	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Minister for Employment sees the problem of occupational medicine and occupational medicine. It's very tricky with the headmanship. I hope that the new authority will be able to resolve this. The Landstingen has no commission from its principal when it comes to business doctors. This means that no one takes real responsibility for them to get competence development and ST-qualification. The Minister for Education announced that the number of seats in medical education will increase by 440 in the future. I do not know whether the Minister for Employment can respond to this, but I wonder whether this also includes the places needed for business doctors. That is a question to which it would be great to have an answer. Or are the locations of occupational doctors outside the 440? I don't know. It is not borne in mind that business doctors also have insurance doctors at Försäkringskassan. Skills provision is needed at all stages to make good decisions for the individual. Then I also know that the Swedish Armed Forces' health services are also very concerned about the supply of expertise in occupational health care, which is needed to deal with the combatants who are located here at home. This is a big question, and many are concerned about what it will be like. As a member of the Legal Council, I have given a lot of thought to what happens if we do not have a good basis for taking these difficult decisions. Occupational health care itself plays an important role as experts in the field of occupational medicine. This expertise does not exist in primary care in the same way. These doctors are really experts, and they are not in primary care. In the past, occupational health care was involved in occupational injuries that were more physical. Today it is about work-related ill health, which is primarily psychological, which requires very good knowledge in that part of the occupational medicine. The frightening statistics on age distribution show that 60 per cent have reached the age of 68. This shows that the deficit will be acute in the future. I think people should be allowed to work as long as they want and can, but we see that this is like rolling a snowball in wet snow– it will only get smaller and smaller.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-121	Mr President, I would like to I think that Lotta Finstorp is close to the answer to her own question when she points to the fragmented headship and training of specialists in occupational medicine, which it is about here. There it is the county council that is the principal, but often it is not in the county council that the finished doctors should work. This affects the possibility of setting up ST services. I believe that the issue of the number of places in basic education is not the relevant issue here, but the question of bringing about specialist training. Nevertheless, I believe that the issue of headship and long-term responsibility is something that we resolve with the new authority. Surely we will have to come back to more issues relating to this, and I look forward to continuing to debate this issue with Lotta Finstorp and many others involved in this.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-123	Mr President, I would like to I hope now that those who are waiting for a message will have it soon and that the issue will not be forgotten. This must continue to be developed further, as business doctors must be available for a variety of specialities. I have previously mentioned the defence and the Social Insurance Agency and the exemption procedure in certain professional categories. Now it is only up to evidence and that we continue to develop this and link it with the actual situation of sick leave in the labour market today. We must have specialists who know these issues linked to the working environment.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-125	Mr President, I would like to I can assure Lotta Finstorp that nothing here should be forgotten but developed.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-126	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has asked the Prime Minister when and in what way he – or his employees – was informed about the possibility of a meeting with representatives of Findu's ownership, the reasons behind the Prime Minister's or his employees' decision not to participate in such a meeting, but rather to send another representative, what considerations the Prime Minister and the Government made regarding the arguments to be put forward at the meeting and how the talks should be conducted, taking into account, inter alia, any language problems. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The decision on the closure of Findu's production in Bjuv came in March 2016. Since then, the Government has had a continuous dialogue with the leaders of both Findus and Nomad Foods, Bjuvs Municipality, Region Skåne and other stakeholders. As part of this dialogue, as responsible for issues such as food production, in December 2016, I invited the Nomad Foods management to a meeting in February 2017. The sale of the plant and associated land in Bjuv had started. The purpose of the meeting was, among other things, to inform me about the status of the process and to inform me about how the government intends to support the further development in Bjuv and Skåne. In view of the continuing sales process, I do not wish to comment further on the meeting with Nomad Foods or other contacts that the government has on this matter. However, the intervention raises a very important question of principle as to what governments can and should do in business settlements within the business community. As far as the sale of the Bjuv plant is concerned, the government is not a negotiating party, it is Nomad Food's decision. It is not something that the government should or should have any views on. That is how it looks in a market economy, and I do not think that is something that Jonas Gjörtler wants to change. The state has an important role to play in greater notice or transitions in the business sector, and the national level's support to the individuals and localities concerned should be provided primarily through the regular systems and resources available. In addition, the government has further strengthened the state's ability to support in the event of greater notice and structural changes in individual locations. In February 2017, the Swedish Agency for Growth was commissioned by the Government to assist the municipalities concerned with the experience, resources and knowledge of the conversion work that the Agency has at its disposal. This is something that has been requested by the places previously affected by conversions similar to the one in Bjuv. In July 2017, the Government decided on funds for Region Skåne to implement measures that strengthen innovation in the food chain and support the development of innovative food companies. The government will continue to work to create the best possible conditions for food companies to choose to have their production in Sweden.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I thank the Minister for Rural Development for his response to this interpellation. When the announcement came down in spring 2016 that the operation at Findu's plant in Bjuv was to be decommissioned, it was a bomb in Food Sweden. It shocked and shook the whole industry, not only in Skåne and in northwest Skåne where the plant is located but throughout the country. This has actually been one of the major Swedish flagships in Swedish food supply that combines what could be and has been our strength in Sweden, namely good conditions for growing and having a functioning agriculture as well as great knowledge of the processing and further development of food products, that is, the entire food chain. It is so incredibly important that these parts are connected. The processing of the food chain needs a functioning primary production, that is, agriculture. The reverse is also true, in other words, that a functioning farm must have a processing industry that can take care of parts of the raw materials produced. It was a rather high tone from the government when this message came. You heard the slogan: No pea is moving to Germany. The frustration that was also present in the Government Office with regard to this decision, I think, was meant to be honest. At the same time, I think it was clear that self-criticism about the competitive conditions that have generally been given to our industries in the country, and in particular to food production, has always shone with their absence. Have we really in Sweden done what we can to give these industries the best possible conditions for them to grow and remain here? On a proposal from the government, an agreement was made with us in the Alliance on, among other things, objectives for a food strategy. This was clubbed through here before the summer. I have said before, and I know that the Minister for Rural Development and I agree in that respect, that this is very valuable. It provides a good foundation and foundation for the industries to grow in the future. However, this also requires measures that can meet the objectives set. However, these are more long-term measures to strengthen competitiveness. This requires, not least, a reduction in costs in the form of lower taxes, regulatory simplifications and fewer special requirements. But in a shorter perspective and in a more acute situation, such as the one that arose in spring 2016, I believe that the government also has a responsibility to at least try to act. It is true, as the Minister for Rural Development says, that the government is automatically not a negotiating party at such a stage. It is a private company, and it has the right to make its decisions. However, the government can still be an important player, because one can be perhaps the heaviest player and the most powerful in presenting important arguments that have a broader ring bottom than the purely short-term economic one that the company may have had to deal with, and to highlight some aspects that may not have come to light during the process of the decision. When an opportunity is then given for the government to be involved in such a process and to participate in a meeting to present that kind of argument with a weight that the government can have but that perhaps not many others can have, I think it is incredibly important that the government also takes that chance. Mr President, I would like to So it was a bit remarkable when, in an article at the end of the summer, information came up that the government has not acted in the way it would expect when such a situation arose. I do not think that the Minister for Rural Development really responds to how it acted, and I would like this response to develop a little more.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-144	Mr President, I would like to I have really appreciated Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler as a politician, not least in the work that led us to get the food strategy ashore here in Parliament. He really took on a responsibility there, and I think the honourable Member should be very grateful for that. A functioning food chain affects both the food industry and agriculture. Agriculture is equally dependent on the existence of an industry that is dependent on the existence of a farm. Mr President, I would like to When I took part in this interpellation, I was very surprised. As a politician, I have a long experience of working with the business community. It would never occur to me as a politician to go into a process where private companies are going to meet a business deal between each other. I have had that experience for a very long time from municipal activities. You should never go into that part. At the time of my meeting with Nomad Foods in February this year, the Group had initiated a sales process. There were then several potential buyers of the Findus plant. Here cannot and should not a government go in and rule. Mr Gjörtler, we must respect the rules of the market economy, and I know that you think so too. Therefore it is quite incomprehensible that you, as a moderate, write an interpellation like this.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-147	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Rural Affairs! I think we may be talking about different parts of the process and possibly also about different meetings. What the Minister for Rural Development describes is that you should not go into a process and interfere with it or actively try to counteract a decision made. I respect that point and I share the view that this is a market economy. Therefore, these parts must be able to function on their own. However, as described in the article to which I refer, it is an invitation to attend a meeting, and that is quite another matter. When you receive such an invitation to participate in a meeting with the sphere of ownership, the question is what the government does then. There is nothing to say that the government must refuse to participate actively in a meeting when such a situation arises. What the Minister for Rural Development describes, I interpret as a meeting that has taken place at the initiative of the Minister for Rural Development in February 2017. It was only a year after the announcement came and then the process was already under way. What is described in the article to which I refer is an initiative that has been taken from another direction. The article does not show whether the government has had the opportunity to comment and give its picture of what has happened. It was an important reason for me to write this interpellation and give the government the opportunity to explain how the process was handled. Is the picture given in the news article correct? What is the government's picture? But to my surprise, the government chooses not to give a picture and not to explain how it has acted. When the government chooses not to respond to the criticism that is being made here, it is difficult to interpret it otherwise than that it is part of the criticism that is being made. Here the government has an excellent opportunity to respond to what may be perceived as unfair or false accusations. If you have not had the opportunity to present your point of view, you may find the article misleading. Then there's an opportunity now. This interpellation has given us a perfect opportunity. So the questions I asked in my interpellation remain. When and in what way did the Prime Minister receive information about the possibility of having a meeting with representatives of Findu's sphere of ownership? What are the reasons behind the Prime Minister's decision not to take part in such a meeting, but to send another representative instead? Finally, what considerations did the Prime Minister and the Government make with regard to the arguments to be put forward at this meeting and in what way would the talks be conducted? I do not think I have received any answers, but I look forward to perhaps getting it now.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-155	Mr President, I would like to The Member refers to a newspaper article. I would like to inform Jonas Gjörtler that this person was not at all at this meeting. The discussions that took place at the meeting will not be reflected. I have extensive experience of working with business development and I follow the rules of the game that apply in the business community at this type of contact. Since the closure decision came in March 2016, the government has had a continuous dialogue and followed developments. We have had a dialogue with Findus, with the owner Nomad Foods, with Bjuvs municipality, Region Skåne and other interested parties. In April, the Minister of Economic Affairs met with the management of both Findus and the owner company Nomad Foods. I've had meetings with the consortium about Bjuv. State secretaries Backteman and Lindström at the Ministry of Industry have had contacts with the parties involved. In addition, there has been a special contact person at the department who has been dealing with this issue. Mr President, I would like to The sad thing is that Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler is not the only one who asks these kinds of questions. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, moderate, has also asked me how I have acted in order for the negotiations to be successful. I ask myself, what is happening to the Moderates? When private companies settle with other private companies, a government should not go in and negotiate. That I should stand here in the Swedish Parliament and inform about this is actually quite embarrassing. Mr President, I would like to Last month, Findus announced that the entire Nomad Foods pea processing in Europe will be moved to Skåne. Of course, it does not replace the closure of Findus. We do not even know if this venture ends up in Bjuv. Nevertheless, it is positive and good news that we should nevertheless welcome.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-160	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that it is nevertheless rather remarkable that the Minister for Rural Development finds it sad that Members of this House are acting on information that is given on how the government has acted to safeguard and strengthen the competitiveness of the food industry and that, in a specific case, Members are taking the opportunity to ask if they had been invited to a meeting that could affect the conditions for maintaining one of our main food flagship industries. I find it remarkable that the Minister for Rural Development chooses to put it that way. Nor is the question formulated in the way that has been suggested here, that the government should actively go in and interfere with or prevent a private company from making decisions. This is about an opportunity to inform and give their picture of a meeting. The question is based on a news article, so it's not something I've taken out of the air, it's like an interview with the former CEO of Findus where he gives this picture. Otherwise one might not have had to attach so much importance to it if it had been a free stall. This is based on an interview that should have quite a lot of insight into this and which puts out the text in a fairly clear way. That is why I find it very remarkable once again that the government does not respond to the allegations if it thinks they are so wrong instead of accusing me and other Members and saying that it is sad that we are getting involved in this matter. When the announcement came that a small part of the activity should be located in Sweden, it is unfortunately symptomatic that the Minister for Rural Development describes it as a success. It is good that something is placed here and not elsewhere, but it cannot be regarded as a success when a large company like Findus disappears and the government does not assume its responsibilities.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-165	Mr President, I would like to I think it is good that there are many of us who are involved in business development, it is not wrong. Nevertheless, it must be borne in mind that we live in a market economy where there are rules of the game. A government should certainly not go in and interfere with these kinds of negotiations. I had a meeting with Nomad Foods, which took place on February 21st. The broker who was in charge of the sale spoke out the week before in a big article – I can hand it over to the honourable Member. It was then clear that there were more stakeholders and that negotiations were in progress. I know you don't really want politicians to go in and direct private business deals, Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler. Yet you would like me to report on the internal work of the government and the Government Office regarding who is talking to whom. What happens to Bjuv is very important to me. Therefore, I will not allow any political game to interfere with the work that is now taking place in Bjuv. The sales process is still ongoing. It's not finished. The government has some contacts in this, but we still have to agree, Jonas Gjörtler, that the rules of the market economy apply here. The government cannot enter into a process between two different private companies. Mr President, I would like to Before I put an end to this debate, however, I have to say one thing: we have a long election campaign ahead of us. I hope, Jonas Gjörtler, that we can get the level of debate up. You can't shoot at all the balls. It'll be easy self-goal. And it's pretty clear where the ball ended up this time.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-170	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked me what measures I have taken with regard to the leakage of classified information in connection with the Swedish Transport Agency's IT procurement. Furthermore, Oscarsson has asked me when the Ministry of Defence was informed about the leak. Officials at the Ministry of Defence received information from the Ministry of Justice on safety risks in connection with the Ministry of Transport's outsourcing in February 2016. The Ministry of Industry also participated. Afterwards, my officials informed me in March 2016. The information was comprehensive and concerned the Swedish Armed Forces' activities. It concerned the risks arising from qualified protection identities and civilianly registered military vehicles. When I received the information, the Ministry of Defence's officials announced that they had been in contact with the Swedish Armed Forces. They had then been informed that cooperation on the matter had taken place between the Agency and the Swedish Security Service and that the Swedish Armed Forces had taken harm-restrictive measures early on and that no action was required from the Government. I was also informed that the Security Service had initiated a preliminary investigation. Responsibility for the authority that has committed an error, the Swedish Transport Agency, lies under the Ministry of Industry, and responsibility for the investigating authority, the Swedish Security Service, lies with the Ministry of Justice. My responsibility in this case was to assure me that the authority within the Ministry of Defence's area of responsibility, the Swedish Armed Forces, had taken the necessary harm-reduction measures and did not need further government decisions. The Ministry of Defence had no co-ordination or co-ordination responsibilities in this matter. Given that the Swedish Armed Forces had taken early steps to deal with the potential risks that had arisen as a result of the Swedish Transport Agency's outsourcing and that a preliminary investigation was ongoing, I assessed on the advice of my officials that there was no reason for me to take any further action. Furthermore, I assured myself at the meeting with the officials that follow-up would be given to the matter. Since I received the information in March 2016, the Ministry of Defence's officials have had further contacts with the Swedish Armed Forces to follow up the agency's actions. The Swedish Armed Forces' early action to limit harm was confirmed by the Commander-in-Chief on 24 July 2017 at a press conference. The Commander-in-Chief also explained that with the early measures taken by the Swedish Armed Forces, the event at the Swedish Transport Agency did not have a tangible impact on the Swedish Armed Forces' overall operational capabilities. Furthermore, the Commander-in-Chief concluded that the risk that had arisen could be addressed. The head of the military intelligence and security services, Must, has also declared to the Defence Committee that, due to the measures taken, the Swedish defence intelligence capability has not been significantly adversely affected. In February 2017, the Swedish Armed Forces notified the Swedish Security Service with a mens evaluation, but as I have just stated, damage reduction measures had already been taken by the Swedish Armed Forces. The non-classified part of the men's assessment also shows that the Swedish Security Service had asked the Swedish Armed Forces to await any own investigations that would require consultation with the Swedish Transport Agency until the preliminary investigation was concluded. The preliminary investigation is now completed, and in light of this, I have been informed that the Swedish Armed Forces have formally commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to get a comprehensive picture of what information, including personal data, vehicle data and data related to total defence and contingency planning related to the Swedish Armed Forces, which the Swedish Transport Agency has in its systems. I have also been informed that the Swedish Transport Agency's response has not led the Swedish Armed Forces to change their assessment of the impact on operational capabilities or defence intelligence activities. In conclusion, the Ministry of Defence has since problems with the Swedish Transport Agency's outsourcing of IT services been noted to have had contact with the Swedish Armed Forces to ensure that the agency has taken harm-restrictive measures. Measures had thus been taken and potential risks for the Swedish Armed Forces' operations were handled. No demands for action or decision by the government in my area of responsibility have been called upon by the Swedish Armed Forces.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-179	Mr President, I would like to I want to start by going over what has happened and what we know. We'll go back to April 1, 2015. The Swedish Transport Agency then decides to outsource and add responsibility for the management of several registers to the international IT company IBM. It was Maria Ågren who signed the decision. In addition to information about all vehicles in Sweden, the database also included the personal data of licence holders. It also mentions licence holders with protected identity. There was also information about airports, roads, bridges, armored vehicles, civilian vehicles that the Swedish Armed Forces have and much more. In May 2015, a number of problems with the procurement with IBM were identified. Foreign technicians at IBM to carry out the transfer of data had not been security audited. Director General Maria Ågren decides to derogate from laws that protect sensitive information, namely the Privacy Act, the Personal Data Act and the Publicity and Confidentiality Act, and the Authority's own requirements for information security. This gave foreign technicians full access to classified information without security clearance. In June, the personnel at the Swedish Transport Agency and the Finnish Transport Safety Agency were worried and alerted Säpo, who finds out that the IT operation will go out to technicians and be operated from the Czech Republic and Romania. You start a review. It also emerged that IBM in turn had outsourced part of the business to companies in Serbia, among others. Later that same year, specifically on November 25, 2015, Säpo recommends an immediate stop to the deal, but the warning is overlooked. In January 2016, pre-trial investigation against Maria Ågren will begin with regard to negligence with classified information. She's suspected of having made decisions that could reveal classified information. At the same time, the minister's colleague Anders Ygeman was told about the incident. In February, Maria Ågren informed her department and the State secretaries responsible of the preliminary investigation and the departures she had decided to make. In March of the same year, outsourced personnel accidentally released data on vehicle owners with a protected identity to a variety of companies. The Swedish Transport Agency also sent out classified information twice. In order to correct mistakes, the Swedish Transport Agency sent an open e-mail containing all the registration and chassis numbers of all the cars owned by persons with protected identity to the companies concerned, who were asked to clear secret data themselves. It was at this point that the Secretary of Defense was given this information. One year later, in January 2017, Maria Ågren ended up with the reason that the government and the former Director General had different views on how the work should be carried out. When such an important thing happens in the field of cybersecurity, is it not natural for it to be addressed in the National Security Policy Council? Is it not natural to make sure of this and to bring it up with Mr Ygeman and, above all, with the Prime Minister?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-186	Mr President, I would like to I have recently had occasion to repeat time and again that I believe that the Minister for Defence in the present government has the right attitude and the right reflexes in the defence policy context. I say this even though at the same time I believe that there has been no substantial additions to our defence economy or, for that matter, any closer cooperation with NATO. But my point, Mr President, is that responsibility for the so-called cyber scandal is neither a beauty contest nor political horse-trading. It is bad that the Government has not informed the Prime Minister or, for that matter, the Swedish Parliament. But my criticism is that the Government has known that criminal activity against national security has been going on for almost a year and a half without his acting to interrupt it. Mr President, I would like to This is not the Peter Hultqvist I have come to know for the last seven years. When one sees the overall picture of this process, one inevitably leads to the question: Was ever the intention that the Riksdag or, for that matter, the Swedish public would ever know what happened? In the light of the information problems that have obviously existed in the Government Office and the large number of ministers and officials who have known about it, it seems particularly strange that no one has alerted and that no one has acted. But even if directives on silence were based on a central basis, this does not change the responsibility of every sub-minister to act. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to make it clear that what has emerged here today and in recent weeks has in no way changed my view of the role and omission of the Minister for Defence in this affair.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-191	Mr President, I would like to In his reply, the Secretary of Defense is developing something of a timetable. Let me remind you, like my colleague Oscarsson, of some things! At some point in the late autumn of 2015, knowledge and information about the safety accident at the Swedish Transport Agency is spreading, and there are beginning to be some insights about this. In February 2016, the Secretary of State of the Minister of Defence becomes aware of the incident, and then the Minister of Defence himself in March 2016. The Prime Minister has confirmed that he became aware of this in January 2017. Finally, the Swedish people found out about this sometime in July 2017 – thanks to the media, not in any other way. The question then is what measures have been taken. The Secretary of Defense is developing it in his response. He says that he has, among other things, made contact with the Swedish Armed Forces to make sure that the right measures have been taken. The interesting question that still needs to be asked, and hopefully also answered, is why it is not among the actions taken by the Minister for Defence to ensure in any way that the Prime Minister has knowledge and knowledge of the event and why it does not in any case, from the fact that the Minister for Defence himself becomes aware of this in March 2016 and until the media reveal it in July 2017, there is some measure to inform the Swedish people, the Riksdag or the opposition. I think that the Secretary of Defense is a very large and important answer guilty. What has happened since the media began to report, in addition to the media and journalists rooted in this, is for example that colleagues like Allan Widman and Mikael Oscarsson as well as I myself started to ask written questions and formulated a number of other questions. We have also had committee meetings, which have been accused by the Minister for Defence's party friends of having sand-box forms and being a political game – a political game that has so far cost two ministers, a Director-General and a State Secretary their mission. The question that still needs to be asked is: Why has it not been included in the catalogue of actions that you should in any way inform? The Secretary of Defense says that it is not his responsibility to tell us about the authority that has done wrong. No, but it may be his responsibility to tell us about the authority that has done the right thing – it is clear from the interpellation response that he has ensured that the Swedish Armed Forces have taken action. I quote, ‘So measures had been taken and potential risks to the Swedish Armed Forces' operations were handled. Why not tell the Prime Minister, the Swedish people, the Riksdag or the opposition about this? In addition, I have to repeat a question put by Allan Widman: what is it really, Mr President, that indicates that someone from the government had planned to somehow tell us about the safety accident at the Transport Agency before the media reported in July 2017? These are serious and important questions that require answers.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-196	Mr President, I would like to I don't know how many times I've explained the motives for my actions and those of the department. I also do not know how many times I have told you about the Swedish Armed Forces' various types of measures to counteract the possible risks that existed in this context. When I received this information, the Swedish Armed Forces had taken action on the points where I was informed that there were problems within the Swedish Armed Forces. It was the way to counteract what is called the crime, which has already happened before and which the Swedish Armed Forces handled, in order to minimise the damage. It has been informed of this in the Committee on Defence on at least two occasions and at a press conference, and it has been published many times. But it seems somehow that the fact that the Armed Forces have taken these measures, which was the information I was given, has no value in the general debate. However, they have actually done a good job on this point. It was not the Swedish Armed Forces that was the faulty authority, but the Swedish Transport Agency, which was under the Ministry of Industry. The Prime Minister had indicated that it was the Minister for Infrastructure who would handle the information in relation to the Prime Minister's Committee. There is a principle of responsibility in the departments for who manages what in different situations. I also know how information is transferred to the Council of State Committee. Of course, many things can be considered here. Now there will also be a KU review. I would just like to remind the gentlemen of what Dagens Nyheter says today: a decision was already taken by the Swedish Transport Agency in the summer of 2014 to deviate from the Authority's IT security rules. –– – In the summer of 2014, Deputy Director General Jacob Gramenius decided to do so. Later, he ended up leaving his service. Jonas Bjelfvenstam, the current Director General, says: ..................................................... At that time Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd was the minister responsible. She answers a few questions in Dagens Nyheter: Are you aware that in August 2014 the Swedish Transport Agency made a decision to deviate from its information security guidelines? - No, I don't know about that. In August 2014 I was certainly a minister but then we were in the middle of the election movement and other things. ..................................................... Do the gentlemen think that's a satisfying answer? Do you think you should have been informed about it? "It's really hard to say without knowing more about it. Actually, I can't answer that. ..................................................... Do the gentlemen think that's a satisfying answer? The authorities have therefore deviated from their IT security guidelines, but you don't think you should have found out? "You have guidelines to relate to them. But that also means that you can sometimes make departures in general. In this case, I do not know why the departure has been made. ..................................................... I have tried to explain correctly what I have done and not done in these contexts. Do you think this is a satisfactory answer? Oscarsson now has the opportunity to give me a reply. Will you register Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd, push it on and take up a review of your own in this as well? There are many things you may need to look at in this affair, including what happened before the last election.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-209	Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of Defense doesn't have to worry. I am sure that the Constitutional Committee will get to the bottom of this and look at all sides. It is so important that all cards are placed on the table. One of the basic criticisms I have made is that the government seems to have some kind of tactic that involves telling some of the truth but not the whole truth. That's why we're here. As has been said before, the plan was that this would never come up on the radar, but through the work of journalists it came out. You've had information about it for a long time. The Minister of Defence has had information about it since March 2016 and your Secretary of State since the previous month. A year later, it comes to the Prime Minister. Then the Prime Minister had a press conference that I think almost the entire Swedish people saw. There he began by talking about the accident that had occurred at the Swedish Transport Agency. I am convinced that a large part of the Swedish people realised that it is not just a breakdown at the Swedish Transport Agency. It is a breakdown of the government, a dysfunctionality that is stunning, in which important information concerning national security does not reach the Prime Minister or the National Security Council. The question that the Swedish people ask themselves is, of course, what is the Council for? It was said at the press conference that the Prime Minister as new Prime Minister would launch this to raise important issues for the country. This would include addressing cyber threats and cyber security. Is that not something to talk about? Is it not something to say that there is a red - light authority here, not just once? You run towards flashing red lights. You're warned, but you keep going. This information gets through, and the Secretary of Defense is affected. The department and the authority for which you are responsible are affected. So was Ygeman. He was in charge of civil defense, and you were in charge of military defense. You were both affected. You had the information, but you didn't move on. You didn't inform me. It might be good if it comes out. Perhaps you raised it anyway and tried to say: Mr President, Mr President, or what you say at your meetings, I have something to tell you! Or was it perhaps as Ygeman once said: I could not inform, because there were no safe rooms? I don't know if it was a joke or why he said it like that. It was such an important thing and that the Swedish Armed Forces here has to do with an authority that is so careless that all driving licences come on hand, all information about our roads and everything. What Mr Säpo has said is that all information must be seen as lost and brought into the hands of foreign power. Why? Because so many for such a long time uncontrolled people have had the information and can also copy. Mr President, I would like to This is also a problem. There may be a problem tomorrow. There may be a problem tomorrow, in a week, in a year or in three years. It's now a Zapad exercise. How are you? What does the Secretary of Defense think? Has it come into Russia's hands? Has it come to any terrorist group, or has it come into the hands of any other group? What's the answer?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-217	Mr President, I would like to Let us agree that there has been a potential security threat. Or, as both the military intelligence services and the Security Service have said, Ma n must regard the information as being disclosed, and it must be considered that it is also made false. So far, security leaks have cost one Director General, two Ministers and one Secretary of State. The debate we are currently conducting is based on the responsibility of the Minister for Defence. I repeat my question. What indicates, Mr President, that there is anything at all to show that the government had intended to inform the Swedish people, the Riksdag and the opposition if the media had not reported on this in July 2017? The Secretary of Defense will know about this in March 2016. A Director-General may attend in January 2017. The Prime Minister confirms that he knows this in January 2017, and then it will be July 2017 when the media report on it. Mr President, I would like to We have a variety of ways of conducting conversations even in the case of classified information. You can have party leaders, you can have it through committees, and you can have it through the Foreign Affairs Committee. We also have our own defence team. Nowhere in all these months has there been a voluntary attempt to tell of the security threat that has existed. Then you have to ask yourself the question: Why did you not want to inform? Why has the Minister of Defence not seen it as his responsibility to ensure that the Prime Minister knows that the Armed Forces have taken the right measures? The Secretary of Defense says the Armed Forces have done a good job. I'm inclined to believe that. But why has it not been reported that this job has been done to the Prime Minister, the Riksdag and the opposition? These are the questions that require answers.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-221	Mr President, I would like to If I am to believe in Oscarsson in this context, I expect first of all that he will now act personally because there will be a proper follow-up of the government's responsibilities before the end of 2014. It should be a reasonable spinal seal on Oscarsson's part because the volume of words is quite high in this context. Find out what Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd has to do with this! Explain why it should be outsourced so into the reeds, why the previous government pushed such issues so hard and why there was a new liberal euphoria around that particular thing! It is time to draw a line on how far you can go when it comes to outsourcing and to mark that certain things in society cannot be outsourced. The ideological blindness that has led to such situations must be brought to an end. It is also part of the directives put forward by Stefan Löfven in this context. I would also like to remind you of what the committee has been informed of. The Armed Forces took early action. They have not had a tangible impact on the Swedish Armed Forces' overall operational capabilities, i.e. the IT security problems. Furthermore, the Commander-in-Chief states that the risk that has arisen will be managed. The head of the military intelligence and security services has also declared to the Defence Committee that, due to the measures taken, the Swedish defence intelligence capability has not been significantly adversely affected. Of course, one can speculate and draw up visions and pictures of different scenarios in this context about what could potentially have happened in one direction or another. I trust what they say from the Swedish Armed Forces, how they view how it has been handled and the possible risks involved. This has been taken seriously. The Armed Forces took action as soon as they could in this context. Had the main problem been on the Swedish Armed Forces and it was there that the fundamental errors had been made, it would of course have been my responsibility to make sure to talk to the Prime Minister and in different ways push this issue. Now the Swedish Transport Agency was under the Ministry of Industry, so that part was their responsibility to sort it out. What is our department's responsibility is done. We have fulfilled our obligations in this regard. As far as accounting is concerned, we had a press conference immediately when this happened, in which the authorities stated very clearly what they had done. Perhaps it would be appreciated that the authorities had taken early action and did what they could to resolve the matter. It's an important parameter. Much material has now been delivered to the Constitutional Committee. They will certainly also ask further questions; that is what happens in this type of investigation. I have no indication whatsoever that there is anyone who has any intention of keeping dark or otherwise withholding information in this context. On the other hand, I feel a high ambition to really get to grips with what has happened, because it is an important basis for us to be able to put an end to excessive and too far-reaching outsourcing in the future and an over-ideologized view of salvation in those kinds of measures. It is therefore time to draw a line on what can and cannot be outsourced in government. It is a criticism that should also be directed at the previous government.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-230	Mr President, I would like to Let us then make it clear that whatever one does and whatever one outsources or does not, one must comply with the law of the Kingdom of Sweden. It's number one. As far as the KU notification is concerned, the Minister of Defence has already been heard. There is already such a KU notification, and the whole story will be reviewed including the previous government. Let's just repeat what happened. We have an IT failure. We have a minister, Anna Johansson, who had zero control of his department. We have two ministers, Anders Ygeman and Peter Hultqvist, who received information in February a year earlier. They had the information, they were affected and they were responsible – one for civil defence and the other for military defence. They didn't inform. They did not inform the Prime Minister and not the National Security Council. And they didn't inform the Riksdag. The Minister of Defence should know that this House, the Parliament, is there for us to control the government, among other things. But we cannot fulfil our task unless we are informed. You were informed about this; the Minister of Defence personally received it a year and a half ago. You know that there are possibilities to arrange in different ways so that you can tell secret things, and there are different channels. According to information in SVT, this has not even been a member of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs. It's statutory, so it's a serious matter. It is stated in the Constitution that you must inform about important things. The question comes back: Why did you do nothing to stop the ongoing leakage, which may be the worst since the time of Bergling and Stig Wennerström? Why didn't you do anything to stop the ongoing leakage?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-235	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if the message goes to Oscarsson. The measures that the authorities took and had taken when I, and then also the Swedish Armed Forces, received information about stopping risks and leakage problems. That is why they were working on this. It is extremely fundamental for all the overall information that has been provided in the case up to now. I am sorry if this message has not gone forward, because that is what has been the whole task of the three authorities involved. Otherwise, this would have been a very strange situation. If no kind of action had been taken, I could have understood much of the criticism. But action was now taken, and the results of various types of men's assessment have also been reported. I have to repeat: if it had been my responsibility to have the Transport Agency under the Ministry of Defence, I would have had a responsibility to handle all this information that Oscarsson points out. But now the Swedish Transport Agency and neither Säpo is under the Ministry of Defence, but under the Swedish Armed Forces – who, when I checked the situation, had taken action in a broad field in these two areas: civil registered cars and protective personnel. They had worked actively on this, and it had to be valued. It must be made clear, because somehow here there is a picture of an act of paralysis that is monumental. The government part has worked. When it comes to Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd: Follow up on the article now! It is not enough simply to say that there is a general notification to the Constitutional Committee. Have some backbone now, and also report this part and that minister! Do a proper follow-up!
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-239	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take so that Sweden is involved in a common defence of our immediate area against ballistic missiles and if Swedish part-financing of such capabilities is current. Sweden's security policy line is solid. In view of the deteriorating security policy situation in our neighbourhood, the importance of strengthening bi- and multilateral defence and security cooperation is increasing. Sweden is militaryly non-aligned. Together with a number of other weapons systems, ballistic missiles are part of the threat picture facing the Swedish defence. The threat from ballistic missiles cannot therefore be seen in isolation and must be seen in a broader operational context. This places demands on the development of a strong Swedish air defence as well as on different types of protection measures to create endurance and redundancy. In the spring 2017 amending budget, SEK 500 million was added to the Swedish defence. The Government, together with the Moderates and the Center Party on 16 August, has agreed to strengthen the Swedish defence system further in addition to the efforts carried out as a result of the 2015 defence agreement and the agreement on the 2017 spring change budget. As of 2018, an additional SEK 2.7 billion per year will therefore be added to strengthen the military capabilities and capabilities of the total defence. Air defence is an essential ability for Sweden's safety. The acquisition of a new medium-range anti-aircraft system will begin during the current period and will be completed during the forthcoming defence decision-making period, 2021 – 2025. Swedish defence is strengthened while our international collaborations continue to develop. However, no Swedish co-financing of a common defence with ballistic missile impact elements is relevant.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-245	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Defence, for the answer that was given anyway! In December 2014, the Minister of Defence received an investigation entitled Air Defence Investigation in 2040. It was an investigation that was parliamentary and had worked for a long time. In an assessment box contained in the investigation of p. 287, the following is written: Conventional ballistic missiles and cruise missiles are already today, but increasingly in 2040, a serious threat to air defence as well as the rest of the Förvarsmakten and the country that this threat must be taken into account. A little further down, also in the assessment box: Sweden will need to interact with other states to create protection against conventional ballistic missiles and advanced cruise missiles. Active protection can only be achieved through international cooperation, for example in order to detect and combat incoming robots. Mr President, I would like to In the investigation were representatives of the Social Democratic Party. There are three members of parliament who were at the same time members of the Committee on Defence: AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson, Peter Jeppsson and Eva Sonidsson. None of these Members has submitted a reservation or a specific opinion which objected to the conclusions of the investigation. The fact is that in the investigation also sitting left party stone, Torbjör Björlund, did not reserve itself against the conclusions either. I understand it now that the Government is not prepared to allow Sweden to cooperate with other countries on such a defence against ballistic missiles. Then my question is: what is the line of argument for the Minister for Defence? Has the world's nuclear deterrence overall decreased in the last three years? Or is Sweden now claiming to build a missile defence against ballistic missiles and cruise missiles on its own?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-250	Mr President, I would like to I would like to emphasise in particular what was said in my interpellation response here before: The acquisition of a new medium-range anti-aircraft system will begin during the current period and will be completed during the next defence decision-making period. ..................................................... This is an observation that I think is important in this context. I will not enter into any discussion on criteria. These are matters which, in that case, are dealt with by the authorities responsible in this context. Of course, different levels of cooperation can be chosen. I can mention a project called Nimble Titan, a multinational forum under US leadership whose activities aim to promote knowledge and information exchange on integrated air and missile defence issues. The focus of this dialogue is on political and military strategic level, and the work is conducted through seminars and games, among other things. The starting point is fictitious opponents in a situation ten years into the future. The purpose of our participation in Nimble Titan is to obtain information and build a policy and military competence regarding integrated air and missile defence. Particular attention is paid to testing forms of cooperation and to learning about, for example, international law issues. Sweden, within the framework of Nimble Titan, will promote transparency in missile defence issues. The focus of Swedish participation is to develop understanding and knowledge of political like as well as military consultation and cooperation mechanisms and planning of integrated air and missile defence in an approaching crisis situation. Particular attention is paid to issues related to strategic communication in such situations and also to developing understanding of Swedish-Finnish defence cooperation. As I began my speech by saying, we will renew the medium-sized anti-aircraft system. There's Rb 97 Hawk, and that's what's to be replaced. This is a priority for the time ahead. We will have to come back to competence issues in this context.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-256	Mr President, I would like to It is excellent that Sweden participates in study circles on international law problems related to missile and missile defence. However, none of what the Minister for Defence says will lead the House to believe that this will develop into a real defence against these very dangerous weapons. I have to ask the Minister for Defence: has Peter Jeppsson, Eva Sonidsson and Anna-Lena Sörenson come to the wrong conclusions when they write what they do in the air defence investigation? Was Peter Hultqvist, then chairman of the Committee on Defence and Group Leader of the Social Democratic Committee, completely ignorant of what members of his party thought and wrote in this investigation? Mr President, I would like to I understand that the Minister for Defence believes that a medium-range anti-aircraft will provide adequate protection against ballistic missiles approaching Swedish territory from space. Let me get this straight, Minister of Defense. Should Sweden build its own missile defence, and will the more than 2.7 billion a year to which the Secretary of Defense now refers after the last deal be enough to build effective protection against ballistic missiles and cruise missiles?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-259	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, Widman is not correct in the description of the economy regarding the procurement of a medium-sized anti-aircraft system. There is already a great deal of money in the existing budget. The 2.7 billion will also be used for a lot of other things. With regard to this type of issue, I would like to reiterate that what I said very clearly was that we should well return to the criteria that apply to this procurement at a later stage and what abilities are included in this context. I am not going to go further in that discussion today for reasons that are clearly clear. It is enough for me to note today that we are going to tender for a medium-sized anti-aircraft system and that this process will begin in the near future. An authorisation from the Swedish parliament is also required for this to be implemented. Then we will have to come back at a later stage with the criteria for possible abilities in this context. Mr Widman does not need to make any further interpretation than exactly what I am saying at the moment. Then we will have to come back with further information at a later stage. A common missile defence also places quite different demands on security policy and broadens the concepts a lot when it comes to such a position. That is what we need to value in a much broader context than we can do in this House today. I would therefore like to emphasise that a common defence with elements of impact against ballistic missiles is not up to date as it currently stands.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-265	Mr President, I would like to It is quite clear that Peter Hultqvist rejects his social democratic colleagues' assessments in the Air Defence Investigation in 2040, where there was agreement. However, I would like to state on the record, Mr President, that I fully share the conclusions of the investigation: there is no possibility whatsoever for Sweden to build a viable defence against ballistic missiles on its own. This has been recognised by all countries of Sweden's size a long time ago. No other Nordic country and no country of our size in Europe is trying on its own to build this form of abilities. It requires cooperation. I am pleased and pleased that a public investigation has made this very clear, and I understand the defence minister's reply as saying that we Swedes, who live here in our country, will not, directly or indirectly, be subject to any missile defence.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-267	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman, of course, has his own conclusions in this context, and you can go far in these arrangements. Technical cooperation on this type of product and this kind of ability is one thing. Then it depends on what you put in the word and what it then leads to at a developed stage for the type of obligations and what it covers. There are many questions that must be answered when using this type of concept. But technically and in terms of product development, these are the skills that we need to put into international cooperation but also in an international market. There's nothing strange about that. Then there is the question of what is put into the concept of common defence and what the ultimate consequences are. What I've been trying to say is that maybe it's not simply saying straight off: Let's go into a joint missile defense. I have given my answer here in the interpellation debate, and that is what applies to the government.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-271	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister of the Environment Karolina Skog and Minister Anna Ekström. Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility. A question shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government or to the performance of its duties.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-273	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. Yesterday there was a topical debate in this House on migration policy and the situation of unaccompanied minors. This is, of course, a very important and urgent issue that affects individuals. It is important that we safeguard the order we have, with individual assessments where it is the competence of authorities and courts and not the whimsicalness of politics that determines. We should not have a system in which factors other than asylum reasons are crucial. It's not long-term, and it's not humane. It is very important that this area is not characterised by uncertainty. Yesterday's debate revealed a split between Minister of Migration Heléne Fritzon and the Green Party's group leader in the Riksdag, Maria Ferm. The government gave one message and the Environmental Party in the Riksdag another.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-277	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the honourable Member for the question. As the honourable Member reports, the government does not carry out asylum trials – to be added. I was one of those who worked hard to get to this system, which involves examining applications for residence permits first in authority and then in independent courts. This does not mean, however, that the government is not responsible for monitoring the development of people applying for a residence permit in Sweden. The government is responsible for the legislation. And the government has a responsibility to uphold the rule of law. Yesterday's discussion, as described by the Member of Parliament, and in which all the parties in Parliament participated, was about what legislation we want and how we should uphold the rule of law. That was a good discussion.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-281	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for Education for his reply. Nevertheless, I would like clarification. As the Minister says, it is important that it is the authorities and then the courts that examine these issues and that there is no uncertainty about this. But in the debate yesterday it was clear that there was great uncertainty as to what should apply. From the Minister's answer, I need clarification. Is the Minister not behind the politics of his own party?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-283	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I do. I do. I do. I do. And the policy of the Green Party is well known. The government is working on legislation and protecting legal certainty. Proposals for legislation are submitted to the Riksdag and examined in the Riksdag. I note that the proposal for legislation that has been tabled has meant, on the one hand, that children should not be subjected to the same severe test as the restrictions introduced in November 2015 and, on the other hand, that the Parliament has accepted legislation that under certain circumstances they should be able to obtain a residence permit in order to complete upper secondary school.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-286	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Secretary of Defense. There has been quite a lot of debate today in the interpellation debate, and the Minister for Defence has explained the time very clearly. I have one question left about this which I would like to make another comment. In the Committee on Defence we have a confidential part where we get information about things that are going on out there and that may pose a certain security risk to Sweden, and then we have an open part. We find it a little strange that all this time everything else has been discussed but that the Minister for Defence has not mentioned this. I would like clarification on that.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-290	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. The IT security problem lay with the Swedish Transport Agency, which is located under the Ministry of Industry and was under the Ministry of Infrastructure at the time. That's where the basic problem lay. Säpo was the authority to follow this up in relation to the Swedish Transport Agency. The Minister for Infrastructure was responsible for informing the Prime Minister at the political level. That's where the responsibilities were. Our task was to clear up the Armed Forces, which we did. If this had happened within the Swedish Armed Forces, it would have been my job to take these initiatives towards both the Prime Minister and the Riksdag. That is how the principle of responsibility is in this context. I am also well aware that there are special briefings for how classified information should be transferred to the Council of State Committee.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-294	Mr President, I would like to I put a written question about the FRA to the Minister for Defence a while ago. Thank you for that answer, Minister of Defence. In view of the reply I received, I would like to ask the Minister for Defence to check whether the data on their vehicles are still in an open register. In that case, it is possible to follow FRA vehicles out in the country. You should also look at when you have safety-rated staff. And what about access to the classified Must investigation?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-298	I would like to remind all Members that there is a limitation, one minute for the first question and then 30 seconds for the supplementary question.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-299	Mr President, I would like to The staff of the FRA are classified. That's it. All FRA operations are classified. I know that it is being followed up very closely by the authority. When it comes to my basic relationship with the Riksdag and within the Government Office, it would have been my responsibility to handle that kind of information about the main responsibility for what h is would have been for the Swedish Armed Forces and if the Swedish Armed Forces had been the problematic authority.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-302	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Fridolin. The ministers of the Green Party have visited Alingsås in West Sweden twice to speak out for the need for a national centre for passive house technology, sustainable construction and renovation. The last commitment was a budget effort of 20 million annually. No one believed anything but that the purpose was to take advantage of the expertise that was gathered there, already in 2017. Now it's time for new budget play, with promises here and there. The money promised for this year has been spent, since the sum was divided into two times 10 million half-years. What, then, is the message to all of us who like passive houses and who want the unique knowledge and good examples that exist around the country to be in place, taken care of and disseminated with the help of this promised but delayed venture?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-306	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. It is important to disseminate intelligent construction technologies. The fact that the construction sector is doing its part in the transition to a sustainable society is crucial, both for energy use and for resource consumption. It is about both building materials and – as the questioner is at – the energy consumption of buildings. What has been done in Alingsås is very interesting to see. However, questions to me should be of a general political nature. I cannot therefore go into, for example, the location of a centre.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-308	Mr President, I would like to I realise that it is difficult for Gustav Fridolin to answer such questions, but it is still about the government's way of managing the authorities. You go out and make promises in a budget presentation and let different actors live in the belief that there is an opportunity to seek this money, and then it turns out that when the criteria change, they are completely different. Then one wonders a little bit how the government will act in this budget process when making different types of play locally.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-309	Mr President, I would like to I can assure the questioner that the budgetary proposals we are making, the presentations of the content of the budget we are making, are something we should stand for. And changes will be developed in dialogue with those concerned. Of course, this does not mean that everyone is always satisfied. I think everyone who has had the privilege of working in or near a government knows that well.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-311	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. This is about the announced electric vehicle premium. It is clear that climate action is important, but as a liberal I am highly sceptical about this type of contribution to individuals. In addition to being able to question the principle and whether it is indeed the role of the State to support private purchases, there is a clear risk that this will lead to a lack of price pressure in a market where the technology is relatively developed. In other words, there is a clear risk that the premium will not even benefit the individual electric vehicle buyer. My question to the Minister for the Environment is: does the Minister for the Environment see that this form of short-term subsidies is, after all, rather problematic?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-314	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. We are working on a shift in the whole transport sector towards fossil freedom. To achieve this, a large number of measures are needed, a package of measures. Some measures are targeted at cities. There we see that the transition to efficient means of transport is great. We have already invested in public transport, but we see that there is a new technology that is emerging – it is about light electric vehicles, electric bicycles and electric mopeds – which have the opportunity to play a fairly large role in transport work around cities and urban areas. There is support of the kind that we have now announced is justified in order to enable a technological leap and to spread new technologies to many.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-315	Mr President, I would like to I want to make it very clear that we in the Liberals also think it is extremely important to develop technology and that more bicycles and electric vehicles are used. There are many climate, environmental and health benefits, and this is not least about urban congestion. We agree on this. But we also believe that the clear role of the state is to provide the basic infrastructure. The follow-up question to the Minister may then be: does the Minister not think that the expansion of the infrastructure is the major factor in this regard?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-317	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to enabling sustainable travel, infrastructure is the fundamental issue. It is about making it possible to travel safely and safely in a sustainable way and above all to make walking safe and safe. That's the most important thing. But we also need to work on a vehicle-side shift. There we have established systems with regard to heavy-duty vehicles. It is therefore not logical that the state should be completely passive in terms of even more efficient vehicles available and in the process of exploding.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-319	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. We talk quite often here in Parliament about the results in school, about grade inflation and about other challenges that we need to address. However, what has recently been brought to the attention of SVT, among others, is about the cheating that is going on around the university test around the country, the systematic cheating that is going on. It is said that up to 20 percent of those who are admitted to, among other things, Trade are people who have cheated. Yet, in principle, no people are caught. There are very few people who are caught for this, which creates an unfair admission.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-321	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Daniel Riazat, for a very important question! The credibility of the system that we use for applicants for higher education is based on everyone feeling confident that it is fair. Yes, it is important that there are different ways into higher education and that you can show in different ways that you are dedicated and will pass the difficult education you now face. But the more different routes we have, the more important it is that everyone is properly controlled. This is one of the reasons why the government has tightened up the rules on cheating at the university exam and also tried to improve in such a way that the risk of detection of cheating on the university exam becomes greater. As I am told, this is something that has an effect – that there is now a real risk for those who cheat to actually go there for it. That's the way it should be.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-322	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Gustav Fridolin, for your answer! That is exactly what I also received from the Swedish Council for Higher Education. But after establishing the new criteria and trying to get to those who cheated, SVT again did a test, which showed that virtually everyone who cheated got away again. Is the government prepared to take further steps to remedy this so that we have a fair system, as you yourself say, for all those seeking further training?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-324	Mr President and the author of the question. It should of course be a system where you feel confident that even those who apply for higher education through the university test do so fairly and that the results of the test show the knowledge they actually have. If more action is needed, the government is always prepared to look at it. The overall effort to keep track of all the tests carried out through the education system is something that we ministers at the Ministry of Education do together.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-326	Mr President, I would like to My question is to the Minister for the Environment. The government proposes a national inventory of forests with high natural values, known as key biotopes. A major problem is that the current inventory methodology leads to doubtful decisions on which forests are to be protected. Forest land is at risk of being taken out of operation on incorrect grounds. The proposal is a great distrust of current forestry policy and the voluntary consideration of forest owners. The motto that has been in force for many years, freedom under responsibility, seems to be gone. It opens the door to arbitrariness and legal uncertainty for forest owners who are at risk of having a major impact on the national economy, jobs and the possibility of efficient climate action. Once again, ownership is contested by this government. Why does the government come up with such a proposal, which will have major negative consequences for Sweden's thousands of forest owners?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-328	Mr President, I would like to I find reason to start by stating that there have been two previous national inventories of key biotopes in Sweden, one in the mid-1990s and one in the mid-00s. Over the past year, the responsible authority, the Swedish Forest Agency, has had a broad process of developing the method, key biotop inventory, for use in some parts of the country, in northwest Sweden. This new updated method should be completed in January, as reported by the Director-General. Then the government finds reason to use the new method in northwestern Sweden and update the material that has now become a little dated in the rest of the country.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-330	Mr President, I would like to The government proposes that the state replace those landowners who can no longer farm their forests. With the small amount set aside by the government, it will take decades, indeed centuries, before all forest owners receive full compensation. Sweden already has 4 500 nature reserves. The signal is they weren't always shot around the country. My question is: why is it not important to look after the nature reserves that exist instead of bringing new revenge for the country's forest owners?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-332	Mr President, I would like to The government has a very active work to increase the protection of valuable nature in Sweden. We have also greatly increased the means available to manage the protected nature. It is something that has been neglected for a long time, not least in the years of the previous government. It's incredibly important. But it is also important that we have knowledge of what is in nature, and then key biotopinventory is a method of acquiring the knowledge that our authorities need to make decisions.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-334	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. Sweden has in recent years built up many international collaborations, and we have gone very far with many nations. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Minister for Defence and thank you for the commitment that exists in terms of cooperation with different countries, especially in view of what this means in concrete terms for the ability of our units to exercise different scenarios in different compositions. At the same time, this poses a lot of challenges in the future when it comes to staffing and securing skills within our various units, schools and more. In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister for Defence how he views the numerary of personnel in the Armed Forces.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-337	Mr President, I would like to This is, of course, a complex and strategic issue. Much has been invested in quality and professional units, but we have not passed the breadth and numerary of the Swedish Armed Forces. Human resources decisions have not led to full and trained units. Therefore, we have reactivated the military service system, which will start in 2018. In the last agreement we made with the Center Party and the Moderates is also an opportunity to start expanding the number of Swedish Armed Forces by 2020. This can happen in the case of both professional soldiers and conscripts. At the same time, the Defence Committee, which is now working with the future organisation, should review the numerary. In fact, these days we are giving perseverance, and that is a perspective that must be brought to the debate on defence policy in a completely different way from today.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-340	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. That is a positive message given by the Secretary of Defense. The number is important to review; I fully share that view. Then, as the Minister for Defence quite rightly says, we have a reactivation of military service that makes a substantial and concrete contribution, and then we also have to thank you in particular for the fact that it has become a reality. Staff is the most important resource. I think it's important that we carry it with us. We should not just say that, but we should move from words to deeds, and I think that the answer given by the Minister for Defence breathes this.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-342	Mr President, I would like to If we can come up with a first step in 2020 and the Defence Committee has a thorough proposal that can also be financed, there are great opportunities to get something done. In addition, the woman investigating the new personnel supply that led to reactivation of military service also gave a picture of how we could gradually increase the size of the units and reach more people who undergo military service and thus increase the number in the Armed Forces. However, this requires some funding.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-345	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's commitment to the climate negotiations in Paris was to become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. The transport sector is the most important and difficult thing to change, given that 78 per cent of Sweden's oil imports are used for transport. Now the Riksdag has established a climate law where the common ambition is to reduce the climate impact from domestic transport by 70 per cent by 2030. So there is nothing wrong with our ambitions, but the question is how to get there. Now there is a lot of talk about banning fossil cars, and I wonder here about the government's motive for going forward with a reduction law, the so-called fuel change.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-348	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President, for an important question. The target for emission reductions in the transport sector decided by Parliament is ambitious. In order to achieve this, we must, as the Environmental Objectives Committee has stated, have new and sharper instruments. We will not be able to solve this by means of an alexander. The government has presented a number of measures. One of them is a reduction obligation, i.e. everyone who sells fuel in Sweden should take in an increasing share of renewable fuel. For the user, nothing will be noticed. You will be able to refuel as usual but actually get a rising share of renewable fuel. It is an effective reform and one of many we need to do in order to achieve the goal decided by Parliament.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-350	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for that answer and have a supplementary question. Many municipalities – Malmö, Stockholm and others – want to move forward and speed up the phasing out of oil in the transport system while protecting the air for their residents. When the Transport Committee visited the Netherlands, it had been understood that the establishment of environmental zones was probably the most cost-effective and quickest way to give municipalities this opportunity to protect the air while reducing the climate impact. What is the Environment Minister's view on this?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-352	Mr President, I would like to When we turn the transport sector into fossil freedom, we have the greatest opportunity to act quickly in cities. I agree with the honourable Member's view that we have municipalities around the country who want to take the lead and keep a high pace and who also have high ambitions in terms of air quality. We have submitted a mission to the Swedish Transport Agency to investigate environmental zones, and we intend to proceed with that proposal.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-355	Mr President, I would like to I have an intern this week. Tilde Bäckman is her name and is ninth grade at the Park School in Mönsterås. We have discussed a lot of politics, and she has a question for Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. When you go in ninth grade, the knowledge is very important so that you get as good life chances as possible. Now she wonders why you have to grade A on all your assignments in order to get an A in the final grade. It's like if you get eight As and one B, you get B. Why is that? Is that a good thing, or is the Minister going to change this? Tilde is in the gallery.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-358	Mr President, I would like to I tried to look up and see her. Thank you very much for the question, Mrs Tilde, and thank you also to the honourable Member for presenting it to the House. The rating system, which was introduced by the previous government, is based on the idea that you have to show that you have reached the knowledge requirements in all the parts that are part of a subject or course to get a certain result. There is some flexibility in that. Through an assignment we gave to the Swedish National Agency for Education, they have also come up with new recommendations to slightly increase that flexibility, especially for students with very different levels of knowledge. But the very foundation, that you have to show that you know what the course contains to get a certain grade, I think we all share. On the other hand, there must not be a single task that determines it. It must not be the case that you in a course or in a subject should be able to do everything from the beginning to get the highest grades, but this is something that you should have the opportunity to try continuously under the subject or, for the upper secondary school, in your course.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-361	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. We've been discussing a lot these days, Tilde and I, and I'm gonna give the Minister of Education another chance. We have also discussed early grading, i.e. grades in third grade. What do the government and the Minister of Education think about third grade grades?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-363	Mr President, I would like to The questions are, in fact, more connected than you might think. One of the reasons why the rating system at a lot of schools was misunderstood – like hacking courses and subjects into elements so that from the beginning you had to have the highest on everything to get the best results – was that it was implemented so quickly. That kind of very fast, big changes in such a thing as the rating system is not good, and therefore we have said that we are now leaving the rating system. We see if we can adjust things that may not have landed quite well, but we are not making major changes in, for example, the grade age, for it is not good to change so much and so quickly.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-366	Mr President, I would like to Looking back at the various budgetary efforts of the parliamentary parties over the years, it is clear that there is only one party's budget that would have resulted in more policemen, namely the Swedish Democrats. Instead, there are fewer police officers today than when the government took office. This is happening at the same time as an increasing number of particularly vulnerable areas have generated more serious and difficult crimes in settlements between more and more serious criminals. The combination of red and green policies has led to serious crimes, such as rapes, being placed on the police's priority list when investigative resources fail. Instead of a call to do something halfhearted, I ask Gustav Fridolin a question: Can he honestly say with his hand on his heart that the government believes that the Police Authority has developed well with the Green Party and the Social Democrats in power? There are now fewer trained police officers on duty and fewer solved crimes, and now even rape cases against children for months are waiting for investigative resources.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-368	Mr President, I would like to The type of crime described by Adam Marttinen must be investigated urgently. There are no excuses for anything else. A major change has been made by the Swedish police. This change has been made jointly by almost all the parties in the Riksdag. It was partly because we saw that the division into many different authorities made it difficult to investigate some crimes, not least organised gang crime. Now it is important that the new police authority actually shows that you can deliver in the form of more solved crimes. It can be about crimes against individuals, making it much harder to be a criminal and more difficult for gangs to recruit young people. There, the investments we have made in the police have been hugely important. I note that more people work in the police than ever before.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-370	Mr President, I would like to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson and Prime Minister Stefan Löfven have spoken about the situation and blamed the police. So far, I have not heard a single self-critical word about what conditions the government has created for the Police Authority. Is it really the government's view that the lack of investigative resources is due to the fact that the police are working too inefficiently? If not – can Fridolin admit that the government has invested too little money in the Police Authority and assume responsibility for the huge failure?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-372	Mr President, I would like to No minister has blamed the police. On the other hand, it goes without saying that when such a major reform is carried out, as the change in the police force has meant, and which has been based on the fact that the police are able to fight more effectively against organised crime that is moving rapidly across county borders, and for that matter across land borders, pressure must be kept up against the authority so that efficiency does not go backwards in the context of reform change. We've done that. In addition, we have provided a great deal of financial resources.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-374	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Karolina Skog. We have heard earlier today about the government's proposal for state aid for lighter electric vehicles. Will there be any criteria for who will receive taxpayers' money? As Lars Tysklind said earlier, today there are a number of different models of e-bikes on the market. Not all of them are of the same quality. Does Minister Karolina Skog not see a threat to subsidise poor quality through taxpayers' money, things that break down prematurely and create more environmental benefits than environmental benefits? Is there not a concern that the market is distorted by subsidies for cheap electric bicycles? When will the grant be introduced?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-377	Mr President, I would like to In the draft budget that will be submitted to Parliament, the Government announced a new support for electric vehicles that will include electric bicycles and mopeds. We will soon tell you when the aid can be used. The issue is being prepared in the Government Office with great urgency. The market needs to know very soon what the conditions are. I have no answer today, but the government will return shortly. We will also come back with details of exactly which vehicle types will be included. We need to discuss more with our authorities. We will also be coming back to this in the near future.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-380	Mr President, I would like to I hope that the Government will take with it this concern that exists among the Swedish e-bike producers, namely that state subsidies for e-bikes without quality requirements on who will receive the aid risk breaking out a functioning market and discriminating against the Swedish manufacturers who deliver quality today compared to a number of – I will not speak ill of China – worse Chinese electric vehicles with the help of taxpayers' money.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-381	Mr President, I would like to We will define the precise criteria for support in dialogue with industry representatives. My Under-Secretary has already invited you to consult. It will take place shortly. After those meetings, we will certainly be able to return with all the details of the support.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-383	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Gustav Fridolin. I have recently visited Myanmar, one of the poorest countries in the world, to ensure on the ground that taxpayers' money is useful in the form of a national vaccine programme. Myanmar's treatment of the Muslim minority rohingya is, according to the UN's Head of Human Rights, an example of ethnic cleansing. The Swedish government has good contacts with the Nobel Laureate and the State Chancellor in Aung San Suu Kyi.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-387	Mr President, I would like to The situation is extremely serious. The reports we receive on how rohingya and others are treated and the large flow of refugees to Bang was added, which has arisen, are taken very seriously. In all contacts with Myanmar/ Burma, Sweden has been clear about the importance of upholding human rights. We also work well with a number of UN agencies through Sweden's role in the UN Security Council to ensure that there is an investigation into exactly what is happening. Such international eyes are extremely important in order to stop possible crimes against humanity and human rights.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-388	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I assume, of course, that human rights and human dignity are top priority when it comes to government action. The atrocities are going on, and they must be stopped. Thank you for your answer.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-390	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt here about what the government has put forward, about the government's priorities in international work or about the political parties in the matter.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-392	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Anna Ekström. During the term of office, the Government has invested heavily in the Knowledgelift, partly in order for people to be able to take the jobs available and partly in order for employers to get the skills they need. The latest budget has announced further efforts in a total of over 80 000 seats. About 5,000 of them are going to folk high schools. Free and voluntary education and folk high schools have a distinctive character in society compared to, for example, komvux. In what way does the Government think that folkhögskolan and folkbildning with their peculiarities have an important role to play in the knowledge lift itself?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-396	Mr President, I would like to That question is unusually easy to answer. The knowledge lift is broad, should be broad and should include many different forms of training. Folkhögskolan plays a very important role here. During the term of office, the government has properly expanded the folk high school, and we intend to continue this extension. We also intend to ensure that this extension can be accompanied by a quality effort. Folkhögskolan can offer unique conditions for the unfortunately too many who today lack a complete upper secondary school degree with a welcoming pedagogy and dedicated teachers in a unique environment. With a tradition of true folk education, folk high school can really mean a difference for many people. The government intends to strengthen the folk high school as much as possible without losing its uniqueness.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-399	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. That was exhaustive; I am very pleased. Another part of the education is the other major player, which is the study associations. They can also be said to have a key role, as they reach out to people and out into society better than many others to give people the opportunity to either start a training trip or take the training places that exist in the Knowledgelift.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-402	Mr President, I would like to Our study associations are like a treasure that we have great pleasure in all of Sweden. They're supposed to be part of our free education. They should not be governed very much by government and parliament, but based on a commitment from below. With the many participants in the study associations, they can offer resistance to the spirit of simplification and black-and-white solutions that today's complex issues really are not valiant of, so the study associations do and will continue to make great efforts to educate people.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-404	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. A few months ago came the important document I hold up: the School Commission's final report Collection for the school. It is a good document with many good proposals to raise knowledge outcomes, improve the quality of teaching and increase equality in school. Some of the proposals are about student health. The school commission writes as follows: a student's health is an important part of the school's overall work for the well-being, development and learning of students. ..................................................... At the same time, the School Commission notes that there are shortcomings in pupil health. My question to the Minister for Education is how he thinks about the School Commission's proposal for improved pupil health and what the Minister of Education intends to do to strengthen and improve pupil health.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-408	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Thomas Strand, for the question! This, of course, is not a work that begins with the School Commission's report. Already in our first budget we prioritised investing more in student health. We have more young people who feel bad. This also makes the task of teachers more difficult. We also have a great need for special teachers and special educators to work with those students who need some extra support. During last academic year 700 new employees were employed in Swedish pupil health. We have also improved the conditions for reading to special teachers – only within the Teacher Lift the number of teachers who want to do so increased tenfold, and that is extremely important. Today we have been able to be clear on the allocation of resources proposal from the School Commission. We are prepared to move forward and, in the coming years, to add EUR 6 billion. Education and student health are at the heart of what these resources should be used for. Students' health is today one of the parts of the school where the least of the resources go, in percentage terms. It needs to be changed; it needs to be strengthened.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-413	Mr President, I would like to It is great that the government has taken strong action. I welcome the proposals announced by the Minister for Education here and now. At the same time, there are measures that cannot only be dealt with through more money. In its latest report, the Swedish School Inspectorate notes that student health is often delayed and that preventive work is not done. It'll be a bit like putting out fires. It's more about changing the strategy. I welcome the measures announced by the Minister for Education now but underline the importance of more measures to strengthen pupil health.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-416	Mr President, I would like to One of the things the School Commission describes that can reverse this so that support is put in place in time in another way is to introduce an action guarantee. There we have a proposal that is now with the Law Council and that strengthens teachers' mandate to ensure that the support needed comes to a student in the early years. More resources are one part. Stronger mandates for teachers to ensure that support is put in place are the second part. More will have to be done, but it lays a good foundation.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-418	Mr President, I would like to I, too, have a question for Minister Gustav Fridolin. The OECD recently produced its latest compilation, which states that Sweden is the OECD country with the lowest education premium. It is a nice and difficult way to say that Sweden is the country where it pays the least to continue studying, to study and to make an effort to take a difficult profession in the future. This has, of course, major consequences. This leads to mismatches in the labour market, and it leads to people not making the effort to take the difficult training needed to continue developing this country – our industry and our companies, but also our public sector. Nevertheless, the government continues to propose increased taxes on labour so that it becomes even less profitable to work. My question to the Government is therefore: when will the government act to strengthen the education premium by reducing taxes on labour?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-422	Mr President, I would like to It must have been frustrating reading for Erik Bengtzboe. After all, the OECD's reviews are based on the statistics available when they are made available, and the latest statistics available to the OECD are mainly based on what the tax system looked like after eight years of alliance rule. Obviously, the five job tax deductions did not solve Swedish unemployment or improve the problem that Erik Bengtzboe is putting on the table with the so-called education premium. To answer Erik Bengtzboes's question: Yesterday, the government announced reductions in the salary tax that you have deferred to the salary that you receive when you are a pensioner. I think that's a good tax reduction – it's completely indecent that the tax has been higher when you retire and start getting a little less money. It is also a reduction in payroll tax. In addition, you should know that in order to feel that you can function well in society, also as a high-income person, it is good that money goes to, for example, the school.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-425	Mr President, I would like to I think the arrogant answers of the Government speak for themselves. Saco notes that four out of ten jobs in the public sector that require an academic degree is a loss business to train to. So the Minister for Education does not see it as a problem. You get laid, you get laid, and if this government continues to raise taxes for people who work, we will not be able to man even the public sector. This will be a huge challenge for Sweden in the future.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-427	Mr President, I would like to I note that, as recently as yesterday, the government proposed a substantial reduction to deal with the pensioner's tax that you introduced. It is therefore a tax on deferred wages – you have to start paying higher taxes when you start getting less money. Arrogans, Erik Bengtzboe, can also be something you show against reality. Your first five job tax deductions did not work to solve Swedish unemployment. It grew during your time. On the contrary, it has fallen once we have implemented our economic policy. What do you suggest? Yeah, another job tax deduction.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-430	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is one of the countries that invest most in education. Today we have heard from the Minister for Education that the government is investing more money. So did the alliance government – it invested a lot of money in school in the form of reading-count-write-guarantees and other things. This is commendable, and it is important steps you take. At the same time, the new Director General of the Swedish National Agency for Education has spoken a slightly different answer. He says school doesn't have a lack of money. He says that we need a clearer focus on students' learning, follow-up and personal responsibility.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-433	Mr President, I would like to I was initially asked a little bit because the questions will relate to the minister's duties, and the National Agency for Education is an authority for which Minister Gustav Fridolin is responsible. But I'd be happy to answer the question. I don't see any contradiction. I see that the Swedish school is in great need of proper resources. But the Swedish school is also in need of teachers, principals, pupils and parents to put knowledge and education at the centre. I see absolutely no contradiction between these two things and have no problem whatsoever to see that the Swedish school in its quest for knowledge is actually deserving of a proper resource base. I am also proud to be in a government where we present not only individual initiatives at the school but a solid and forward-looking platform that will enable the school to develop with good resources for many years to come.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-436	Mr President, I would like to These are, as I said, laudable efforts. At the same time, however, the Director-General actually says that more money may even exacerbate the school's problems. The Director-General believes that we should have an increased focus on leadership, both in classrooms and for school managers, work roosts and quality in classrooms. I wonder how the Government views this and what it can do to support that development.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-437	Mr President, I would like to I have also had the opportunity to be Director General of the Swedish National Agency for Education. I have had the privilege of leading this authority but I have also seen the disadvantages of the incredibly messy resource allocation system delivered by the bourgeois government. Investing in this effort required that school leaders constantly apply for new state grants. The new proposal from the government, which the School Commission has worked out, means a long-term initiative that allows the principals to act without being so twitchy.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-440	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. In recent days and weeks, something new and terrifying has been seen in the public environment in connection with the school start-up at our universities. There have been huge billboards that refer to dating sites. Instead of student loans and student grants, you should use suction pads. This has led the union chairman at Chalmers, Karl Toller, to turn to both the advertising ombudsman and the police. So have I, in my role as President of the S-Women. I think this is something that really needs to be addressed. It worries the students who are going to do a serious job and are met by this when they go out the door.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-442	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Carina Ohlsson! To have to face this when you are about to start your study and focus on your studies is absolutely terrible. This type of activity, as you and others have noted, borders on violations of the Sex Purchase Act and will of course be investigated by the police. It is therefore a good thing that such notifications have been made and that they will be examined in this way. Then it is extremely important that we, as a society, also react to this phenomenon and the view of women that underpins this marketing at all. Legal is, of course, one thing and must be investigated, but we must react, and react loudly. It's good that you S-women do it, and it should be all of Sweden. Our government is very clear on where we stand on the feminist issues.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-444	Mr President, I would like to I hope and wish, of course, that the entire government and also the Ministry of Education will give support to the chairmen of the corps. They end up in a vulnerable situation when they need to work on these kinds of issues, which they don't think they need to deal with. But I think it's very good that they do and hope that the Ministry of Education is also working on this. Then, of course, we need to examine whether there is a border country here and whether new legislation is needed.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-446	Mr President, I would like to We receive the same signals in the dialogue with both universities and unions: This is something that has been highlighted at the start of the academic year and that causes the important work that happens at the universities when you start the semester. We naturally support this. It is also a long-term support, because the gender equality work at higher education institutions has, of course, gone on much longer than the reaction we now see to this phenomenon, for which I find it difficult to find descriptive words – something that should not happen in Sweden.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-448	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson has asked me whether I have taken a position on the fact that the proportion of senior officers is higher in Sweden compared to Finland and whether this is an appropriate relationship, or whether measures should be taken. Stig Henriksson also asks if I intend to take any steps to investigate the impact on business and economy of this difference between neighbouring countries. Finally, Stig Henriksson asks if I will take any initiatives to achieve a balance and, if so, who. Close neighboring countries such as Finland and Sweden have differences, although there are many similarities. Finland, for example, has chosen to retain military service while the previous government in Sweden chose to lay military service dormant in 2009, with the focus on recruitment based entirely on voluntary activity. On 2 March 2017, the Government decided to re-establish the obligation to undergo compulsory training and complete basic training with military service, in order to meet the objectives set by the Riksdag regarding unit and staff completion. As far as possible, the provision of personnel shall be based on the individual's interest, motivation and willingness. It is basically the Swedish Armed Forces that have to design an appropriate staff structure, based on the Authority's instructions, the structure of war units, directions and assignments, and available resources. Changes in the field of human resources have long lead times. The Swedish Armed Forces are in the midst of the introduction of the system of specialist officers, which means that the proportions between officers and specialist officers are gradually changing. This also results in a gradual change in the number of officers with a certain degree. As Stig Henriksson noted, the number of officers with majors' rank or higher has decreased in recent years, which is, among other things, a consequence of the aforementioned. At the same time, it is crucial to safeguard the competence of the current officers' corps. In the report on the robust provision of military defence personnel, the investigator estimates that in the near future there will be a shortage of officers as future departures exceed the estimated inflow. It is in the nature of the matter that the departures are primarily made up of senior officers with relatively higher degrees while the inflow takes place in the lower degrees. It is therefore likely that there will be a further reduction of officers in higher degrees. The needs of the Armed Forces for officers, officers, soldiers and sailors and others are ultimately determined by the structure of the armed forces. The unit structure is also part of the issues that the Defence Committee is tasked with considering within the framework of its instructions. The Government's and the Riksdag's forthcoming position on the Defence Committee's proposal will form the basis for the Armed Forces' continued planning of future officers' needs. Furthermore, the return to military training may affect the duties of officers and likely also the needs of officers and the training of officers. For example, it can be assumed that officers in troop service will have a clearer training role in basic training and will be assigned to important positions in the armed forces. I cannot anticipate the defence committee's proposals, let alone possible positions on them. It is also too early to fully explain which adaptations of different categories of personnel, including officers of different degrees, the Swedish Armed Forces consider it appropriate to do in connection with the reinstated military service. In conclusion, a balanced balance of officers in different degrees and with different competences is crucial for the Swedish Armed Forces to be able to solve their tasks. This is based, inter alia, on a function structure that allows these skills to be developed and supported. The supply of officers and the organisation's closer design will therefore be important focus areas for the Swedish Armed Forces now and in the future.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-459	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Defence. The working name of my interpellation was Many mates, few rowers. That is not the way to express itself in the official Minutes, so it had to be a little more bureaucratic. This means that there are two non-aligned countries in the Nordic countries – Sweden and Finland. There are many reasons to look at Finland in terms of security policy, not just in terms of the school area, which we often look at. We have similarities between history and geopolitical situation, etcetera, but there are also significant differences. Finland strives for both clarity and good contact with its large neighbour. Finland has retained the civil defence that Sweden has disarmed. Finland has no military industrial complex to talk about. The military service has been maintained and thanks to this 50 percent greater military force in peace and 500 percent more soldiers in mobilisation – 500 percent. In spite of this, Sweden had 3,047 officers with major rank or higher in 2009, compared to Finland's 1,224. My surprise was aroused when I saw these statistics. In Sweden, senior officers also accounted for more than twice the total number of officers compared to Finland. However, these were old numbers, so I found out new ones. In July 2017, Sweden still had more than 2,500 officers with major rank or higher, while Finland had 1,224. So they made it by half, despite a multi-fold greater army. As a layman, I find this a little enigmatic and perhaps not entirely optimal, hence my questions to the Minister for Defence about what he thinks about this and whether something should and can be done. However, if I have understood the answer correctly, the Minister believes that this is essentially the task of the Swedish Armed Forces and that he does not want to anticipate the current Defence Committee, which meets as we speak. In this part, the defence committee will not be completed until 2019. It may seem a good and laudable idea that politics should not poke in detail, but this seems a bit illogical when the Riksdag makes decisions at company level and similar levels otherwise. I think this is a more structural problem, which, as far as I can understand, has improved since 2009. But, as I said, Sweden still has twice as many officers with a major's rank or higher than Finland has, despite the fact that Finland has 50 per cent more soldiers in peacetime and 500 per cent more in mobilization. On the one hand, decisions are taken at company level; on the other hand, this imbalance must continue without much discussion. I wonder: does the Minister think this is consistent? I remember reading that many years ago the Italian fleet, which had more admirals than ships, was made fun of. How many Admirals Sweden has today for its seven surface battleships I do not know, but perhaps the Minister, who is usually well informed, can answer?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-469	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that Henriksson mentions Finland. They retained the military service system, which we removed in June 2009 by 153 votes to 150 in the Riksdag. It was a narrow vote with a bad basis for such an important decision. Now we in the government have reactivated military service by a government decision. This means that it may be easier for us to expand the number of soldiers in the future. It will also affect officers and how many they have to be responsible for in different contexts of education. It will also affect their tasks, as I mentioned in my initial review. I see a gradual change in the duties, content and role of officers in the organization. The precise design and appearance of this is a matter for delegated government employers' policy. That is what the system in Sweden looks like. It must be reformed on the basis of our conditions. I look forward to the fact that, within the defence agreement we have made, we can begin to expand the number of Swedish armed forces by 2020. If the defence committee concludes that we should increase the number further, that would be an interesting proposal. In this context, numerary also stands for the possibility of endurance. We in our armed forces have invested heavily in quality. There is nothing wrong with that, but it is important to have both and not either or, in these contexts. We are working to implement the multi-command system so that we get an increased professionalisation towards deep system competence in combination with practical professional practice. There's a process going on here on the officer's side. We also need a new recruitment of officers in order to fill up for the future. The age structure looks in such a way that we may not be able to manage the organisation in the way we would have intended if we do not get a good recruitment in the future. I can say that we now, in 2017, have the highest recruitment to the officer program for many years. 170 officers aspirants have been recruited, but measures are also needed to maintain a positive trend here. We need to look at how we can establish more ways into the Swedish Armed Forces and a special training for officers such as academics, an officer training for specialist officers, group officers, soldiers and sailors, a supplementary training course for reserve officers and more. These are things you work with within the Swedish Armed Forces. It is important to see how we can pave the way for a new generation of officers while at the same time dealing with the age structure. We have a few challenges there.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-477	Mr President, I would like to I think that I and the Minister for Defence are rather divided on some major issues, but I think there are some things that have been handled well. The rekindling of military service, albeit on a modest scale, is a step in the right direction, even if we are talking about 2 000 - 4 000 years old at 100 000. It is a long way to go if you want the old days back, which I do not think any of us want or even think is desirable. On the other hand, we would like to see a slightly stronger commitment to military service. We must not say a professional army in this country, but now we should say a defence force based on voluntary activity, which is a somewhat unusual way of expressing oneself when we never say that about other professions, and also have a lot of voluntary organisations that may be thoughtful. At least this professional army has not worked at all in terms of recruitment. Of the 50 000 we could have mobilized, the success has been on the Home Guard side. The 22 000 that should be there are in principle and work well, but of the professional army's 28 000, 6 000 were completely vacant in 2014, mainly at times. Another 7,000 are being staffed by former conscripts, who were eventually drifting out. That military service is revived, I think is great. Another good thing is cooperation with Finland, which I know the Minister for Defence has spent a lot of time and energy on. We have much to gain in terms of both cooperation and comparisons. It's not that they have the facts and that everything works great there, but it's interesting to compare yourself all the time. Their defence budget of 25 billion seems in many respects more cost-effective than ours, which is almost 45 to 50 billion. I am delighted that the recruitment of officers is going well, at least in some parts, because it is very important for the future, especially if we want to be able to speed up military service. However, there are major problems that the Minister of Defence pointed out in his first reply. Despite the fact that we have an excess of high-ranking military officers on the command side, we have a threatening shortage in a few years' time. It is clear that this requires specific measures. As I said, it would be interesting to consider whether there are things to do. It cannot be that our needs are objectively twice as great, with the small armed forces we have, compared to Finland's officers with major grades and upwards. There may be measures to be taken there that would both increase efficiency and save money in the long term. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister for Defence if he knows how many admirals we have, including deputy and Rear Admirals.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-484	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to cooperation with Finland and those comparisons, what Henriksson says – it may be interesting to have that kind of information and facts, and then you don't have to copy straight off. I sometimes say that while Finland built up the total defence and civil defence, not as a copy of but similar to the Swedish, we dismantled ours. Maybe we can go on a study visit to Finland to find out what was once in Sweden. However, now that we are building a new civil defence and a new total defence, it is important to do so on the basis of today's circumstances, today's ideas and the demands that are now being made. I broadly share the view of Henriksson in relation to numeraries and the importance of getting military service, the Home Guard and the national protection force's important role in these contexts. I think we're in broad agreement on those parts. Then, if the Defence Committee is now looking at the endurance factor, it is of course something that I believe could eventually contribute to a good debate on what the balances should look like in the Swedish Armed Forces. How do we build increased competence among the Swedish public on crisis management issues? This applies not only to purely military crisis management situations, but also to civilian ones. You can get that into a conscription concept. So that's what it looks like. I guess we'll just have to keep working on the question and see how we handle it. We have an age structure problem to deal with, and we also have a problem with recruitment to deal with. However, we also have positive signals regarding the recruitment of officers and training issues at the moment. This requires additional types of action. Then we have a delegated state employers' policy, where the Armed Forces are ultimately responsible for these issues. I may not have anything more to add to the debate today on the issues themselves, but I think that the interpellation has its value and is well worth discussing.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-489	Mr President, I would like to Nor do I have much to add, which is why I do not intend to prolong the debate. There were some sharp exchange of words here before Question Time, and it may also be good to have a little factual and calm conversation between the yards. I thank you very much for your answer and hope that we will work this out together, both in the Defence Committee and in future defence decisions. This applies to those of us who are present at the time, and I am perhaps referring not only to the Minister of Defence but also to myself.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-491	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked me how I feel that Sweden's cooperation with NATO and its member countries is affected if we ratify the Nuclear Ban Convention, how I believe that Sweden's cooperation with Finland is affected, whether I share my Finnish colleague's view that ratification removes the NATO option and undermines the NPT, what consequences I think this will have for our relationship with NATO and, finally, whether I believe that nuclear countries such as the USA and France, which participate in Aurora 17, will also be able to participate in future exercises on Swedish soil. Daniel Bäckström has asked me if I believe that countries such as the United States, the United Kingdom and France will be able to participate in exercises such as Aurora with, for example, flights and ships on Swedish territory after Sweden has signed the agreement, if I believe that there is something that indicates that these countries' willingness to practice and cooperate with Sweden to the same extent as before will decrease if Sweden signs the agreement and whether I believe that Sweden's other bilateral and multilateral defence cooperation, such as our deepened cooperation with Finland and partnership with NATO, will not be affected by Sweden signing the agreement and what forms the basis for that assessment. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. Sweden has a long tradition of broad and deep commitment to disarmament and non-proliferation. Therefore, it was natural to participate in the UN-mandated process leading up to the adoption of a Convention against Nuclear Weapons. There is now a result of the negotiations. In the explanation of vote given by Sweden in connection with the vote on 7 July, the Swedish side expressed overall support for the prohibition process and its objectives. At the same time, it was pointed out that in several respects the text of the Convention did not meet Swedish expectations. The government will now set up an investigation to highlight the consequences of the Convention, including on the Non-Proliferation Treaty, the Test Ban Treaty and our security and defence cooperation. The directives and the arrangements for this investigation are presented in the near future. After the investigation is completed, the government will take a position on a signing. There will also have to be close dialogue with our partner countries. However, the details of these contacts are covered by confidentiality, which is why I am unable to explain them in detail. Any decision to ratify the Convention at a later stage requires the approval of Parliament. I would like to stress the importance of the security and defence cooperation that Sweden has entered into for the overall security policy. It is well known that our security is being built in collaboration with others. EU cooperation, our partnership with NATO, cooperation with the Nordic countries – where Finland occupies a special position – and relations with the USA, the UK and Germany are central elements of Swedish security policy. I would like to emphasise that Sweden's security policy line is solid. Our military freedom of alliance serves us well. National defence capabilities will be strengthened in parallel with the continuing development of our defence and security cooperation. Our foreign and security policy operates through diplomacy, mediation, conflict prevention and confidence building measures. This increases Sweden's ability to work for relaxation and stability both in our neighbourhood and globally.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-499	Mr President, I would like to On 25 August, Margot Wallström had an article in Svenska Dagbladet. There she said that Sweden voted in favour of this text on 7 July, and she wrote that our first analysis shows that our bi- and multilateral defence cooperation, including the partnership with NATO and cooperation with the USA, France and the United Kingdom, can continue. She continued as if there were evidence to suggest that there would be no problem. My question is: Is the article really expressing the truth? According to media data, there was already the same week a basis on which the Minister for Defence claimed, very clearly and clearly, that this would have consequences. It is also public that the United States' highest representative in Sweden, the country's chargé-d' affairs, was present at the Foreign Minister's office the following week – on 30 August – and clearly stated that this had strong consequences. The letter sent by the U.S. Secretary of Defence has also come out, and allegedly the same line is expressed there. My question is: is it really the case that there is no basis for what the neighbouring countries are saying? There were a lot of words in the defense minister's response, but I don't get an answer. How will Sweden's cooperation with NATO and its Member States, such as Germany, the United States, France and the United Kingdom, be affected if we ratify the Convention? Is it not true that the Government has already read this answer in evidence? Isn't it a pretty high game to say you're going to investigate this when you already know it's been clarified from America? I know that the Minister for Defence has a great deal of commitment to us connecting with America – sometimes in the debate, it seems almost as if the Minister for Defence jumps over NATO right in America's arms. But is it not very strange that one hand – the Foreign Minister – for a long time this summer led to the idea that we could be there as one of the first signatures on 20 September? Well, it turns out she did. Then it has become midway in articles, but my question is: Is there not already evidence where it is clear that both the United States and Germany, France and the United Kingdom have been very clear that it is incompatible? And when it comes to Finland: Is it not that it is already done? They say that they have not signed because this removes the NATO option, undermines the existing non-proliferation agreements and is counterproductive. Are there signs in the sky that the Secretary of Defense wants? What other clear signals are needed to realise that this – as Finland says – is something that goes against the desire to reduce the amount of nuclear weapons? It undermines existing agreements.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-507	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Defence, for your answer. The answer is limited and largely refers to confidentiality. But when you read and read articles that have been published – as has been mentioned earlier in this debate – at least one minister in the Swedish Government has drawn conclusions based on how this affects the current bilateral and multilateral cooperation. The Minister of Defence has successfully been – and is – committed to developing this. Sweden needs close cooperation and support in different situations. The situation in our world is troubled, and rehabilitation is taking place in many places. Russia renews its nuclear weapons, places ballistic missiles in Kaliningrad and increases the number of exercises, and has used increasingly harsh rhetoric in recent years. They signal to the outside world that they are prepared to use their nuclear weapons. Now the big exercise Aurora is going on. Today, Russia is also starting its great exercise. In Sweden we have many invited guests in addition to our Swedish participating military forces, and we know that these are guests involved in bilateral and multilateral collaborations. It was announced that Sweden, alone in the Nordic countries, supported the ambition that the UN and many countries have negotiated in this Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. I would like to know how the Minister for Defence sees Finland, like the other countries in the Nordic countries and most EU countries, as having chosen to remain completely outside. These are, in any case, countries that are far from our security policy situation. These are countries that value cooperation within NATO, within the EU and within Nordic-Baltic cooperation. They see what would result from such an agreement when it comes to consequences for our practical conditions in military cooperation. What's the impact, Mr. Secretary of Defense, if we sign? The Foreign Minister has already concluded that this would not affect, but why is there a need for an investigation? When is this investigation intended to be completed? And when does the government plan to be ready for a position on this important issue? During the summer, we have been able to take note of the fact that the Foreign Minister has ensured that the Foreign Affairs Committee has been involved and informed on this issue and had the chance to follow developments. On the other hand, as far as I can remember, the Committee on Defence has not had this information from an overall defence perspective and a defence policy perspective. We could have had an account of how, according to the government, this affects defence policy cooperation. These collaborations have been manifested both when, early this summer, the Minister for Defence and his colleague in the United States have made clear impressions and when he has stressed in EU cooperation the importance of moving forward. I believe that this risks being highly counterproductive in the current security policy situation. It risks hitting both Sweden and Europe's security. This has gone quickly, and it could have gone even faster, but I assume that Sweden is now becoming aware and that the government takes this very seriously and evaluates how this can have far-reaching consequences. We cannot stand alone in a situation where developments are going in the wrong direction. We must safeguard the cooperation that we are now trying to build.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-519	Mr President, I would like to Let us start by reflecting on the very issue of nuclear weapons and the threat of nuclear weapons. I believe that there is very little difference between us in this House. We share the understanding that it is a diabolical weapon, Mr President, with terrible consequences. The challenge for us in Sweden is that it is estimated that there are some 20 000 nuclear warheads worldwide and that half of these are held by the Russian Federation. As the friend and colleague Daniel Bäckström pointed out, there are some robot systems in Kaliningrad. Furthermore, we know that the Russian Federation, with the exception of North Korea, in relation to all the other countries in the world, has a very frivolous approach. It uses this in rhetoric and threatens other countries – if they do this or that way, it cannot be ruled out that nuclear weapons could be used. There is also a technological development in which new types are developed and where they can be used as artillery grenades or mines. In a completely different way, one has a very frivolous approach. Then we have to ask ourselves how the type of agreement that the government is considering steaming into could help. The problem, Mr President, is that no nuclear nation – at least the Russian Federation – is in any way involved in this process. My point of departure and that of the Moderates is that we must discuss what is reality and what is placarded. For me, the reality is that there are 10,000 Russian nuclear warheads. There is no indication that such an agreement would in any way make them less or less threatening. Mr President, I would like to About three quarters of a year ago, I had an interpellation debate with Foreign Minister Wallström with a view to starting these negotiations. To this debate, I think it was at least three or four Social Democrats and at least one environmental party that signed up. Curiously, no one mentioned at the time that such an investigation was planned. I would like to put the question to the Minister for Defence: when did it have the rather interesting and good idea of setting up an investigation to investigate whether this agreement is good or bad? Such an investigation could have been set up at the start of the round of negotiations and could have followed that work in parallel. I believe, Mr President, that the reason why this investigation is now being set up is that there is now an active discussion for the first time since the interpellation debate three quarters of a year ago. It is because opposition representatives have responded to Margot Wallström's debate article in Svenska Dagbladet – as the Center, Christian Democrats and Moderates have done – that it has become such a discussion that one suddenly realizes that it is serious. There is obviously also correspondence from other countries. There has been reference to a letter from the U.S. Secretary of Defense. It has been referred to depess from our NATO representation down in Brussels. Therefore, in addition to addressing the question of when it was given the good idea of this investigation, I would like to ask why it was not set up in the past. And if such an investigation is now made, it is extremely important that it is credible, not only in the eyes of the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but in the eyes of the whole Parliament and this House. I would therefore recommend that it be linked, for example, to the Defence Committee in some way. As has been warned in the debate, this can have defence and security implications. It can have consequences for armaments cooperation, and then it is extremely central and important that the current defence preparation is also kept informed. As has been said before, there is no NATO country behind this. There are no EU countries, with the exception of Malta, Austria, Ireland and Finland, which have chosen a different path.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-532	Mr President, I would like to With growing age, I'm becoming more and more phlegmatic. Those who are close to me say: You never get angry. But now is an exception. I have to say that I almost bax when I hear the arguments of the alliance parties. The United States roars, and at once you run their errands – the affairs of another power! There is usually a specific terminology for it in security contexts. Mikael Oscarsson wonders if we don't have to do what the United States says. What does it say about the possibility of pursuing an independent foreign and security policy as a NATO member? Shouldn't you be mindful? You shoot yourself not only in the foot but also in the knees. The United States says, "You shouldn't." No, we certainly will not, you say. I think it's scary. Daniel Bäckström is concerned that the USA, the UK and France will not be able to participate in exercises such as Aurora. Let me just say that precisely this does not make me so worried, but I understand that Daniel Bäckström from his point of view is worried. But what does this mean? Are you really serious that you can even imagine welcoming nuclear submarines, aircraft etc. in Swedish territory, over or under water? Are you really saying that this is the Center Party's policy on nuclear weapons and Sweden? If, like Finland, we had an unambiguous law banning the introduction of nuclear weapons, produced etcetera in the country, which we do not have today, unfortunately, would that be a problem in cooperation with the United States? Then it is only for the simple reason that you want to keep the door open for us to have nuclear weapons in Sweden. Where are we going? Finally, with regard to the Finnish NATO option, I think that a reasonable authority in this area is Minister of Foreign Affairs Timo Soini. He says that this decision has no connection with the NATO option. Finland would rather that the nuclear states should also be included in the agreement, and that is what we can all wish for. Read Dagens Nyheter in dag! There, a number of N obel laureates argue on the basis of scientific positions for a nuclear ban. But you want to run the affairs of the United States on a literally vital question for humanity. Shame!
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-538	Mr President, I would like to We must at some point be able to confront nuclear weapons in the world. It is the only weapon of mass destruction that is not yet banned. We see what is happening in North Korea, what turbulence it is causing, what a tip it puts tensions in the world, and it must somehow be resolved. I do not think it is solved by a spiral of increased nuclear rhetoric. In the same way, we react to the release from the Russian side from time to time of a general or a positioned military who says: We have nuclear weapons. We just want to let you know. I am well informed about how to move Iscander robots, how to train nuclear units, how to invest in nuclear weapons on the Russian side. It is a very negative development and it has the greatest bearing on our neighbourhood in the field of nuclear weapons. It's important that it's said. We, as politicians, must also be able to confront this with nuclear weapons and find different kinds of methods for something to happen in a positive direction, but on that front the drought of ideas seems to be monumental in various places. Then this resolution comes to the surface, and then suddenly you lock yourself in a corner and have no offensive thought about how to deal with nuclear weapons at all. I think that you, gentlemen of the opposition, should think a little bit about what your opinion is on how we should actually get to the nuclear weapons. How do you want to contribute to that process and development? With reference to what we have directly across the Baltic Sea, you are welcome with both ideas and thoughts on this. On 7 July 2017, we made the following explanation of vote for this Convention: Our position today does not prejudge the outcome of this process. For Sweden, and I assume that this applies to many others as well, the government will consider the consequences of the Convention for civil nuclear industry, trade, research including protective research for peaceful purposes as well as further defence and security interests. A decision on ratification and accession to the Convention will have to be taken in Parliament. It is, among other things, these points that are the basis for this to be properly investigated, that one goes to the bottom of all possible consequences in the whole of its scope for Sweden and also our neighbourhood, because this is not a question that only has to do with Sweden and our internal balance. What we do in this area is to upgrade national capabilities and deepen our cooperation. It is important for the balance throughout our part of Europe. Then this whole perspective should also be brought into this context. Our explanation of vote is now being followed up and investigation directives and the forms of an investigation are being processed. Then, of course, it is the way Wallmark says that if you are going to carry out the investigation, it should be done in a credible way. In addition, you should take the time it takes. It is likely that consultations will then be held. Eventually a government will take a position on it, and finally it is the Riksdag that will make decisions. I just want to inform you about the whole process. Finally, the cooperation that we have built militarily should be developed, not phased out.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-547	Mr President, I would like to Of course, fighting for a world free from nuclear weapons, as has been said here before, is something that we all want and which is very important. But then we will have to work in such a way that there will not be a blow in the air. This initiative undermines an existing non-proliferation agreement, as has been pointed out from various quarters. Then it becomes quite special when, at the end of the day, the Minister for Defence speaks warmly for us to develop our cooperation here. But was it not the case, Minister for Defence, that there was actually evidence, for example, from America, that this clearly has major consequences and that there are questions about our special relationship? We Christian Democrats think we should be in NATO, but we are now a close partner. With regard to the so-called gold card, I wonder if this has consequences. Is there not evidence that such things have been pointed out? As previously pointed out, this has implications for defence cooperation, such as the Aurora exercise that is now under way, Baltops and the like. Is that not exactly what has been said by these countries? It would be interesting to hear the defense minister's view on this. Is it really so that you're so surprised and say this needs to be investigated? Hasn't this been talked about very clearly? And was that not why, Mr President, the Netherlands – they were involved for a while in the discussion – said that this is not compatible with NATO membership? The Secretary-General of NATO has said that it wants to abolish nuclear weapons but that it cannot do so unilaterally. Isn't what we come back to fighting nuclear weapons? This is something that we share with Norway, for example. But at the same time we cannot, as it was said, shoot ourselves in the foot and do something that makes us further away from the vision and the collaborations that are absolutely necessary for Sweden. We are creating security together, and cooperation with our neighbours is of the utmost importance. Then it will be strange to say that this must be investigated. We are told that these countries have been clear. As far as America is concerned, we know for sure, and there are also data from France, Germany and the United Kingdom. It does not work to sign this and to believe that it does not have major consequences. The question comes back again: does the Minister of Defence not have a more concrete answer to give on the basis of the information he has? How does Sweden's cooperation with NATO, with Germany, the United States, France and the United Kingdom affect? What about our special relationship with NATO, the so-called gold card? How will Sweden's cooperation with Finland be affected if we ratify the Convention? Is the Minister for Defence not of a different opinion and, like Finland, understood that this does not work together, that it removes the NATO option and undermines the existing non-proliferation agreements?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-554	Mr President, I would like to For the Center Party, of course, it is urgent that the global work on disarmament continues and that the armaments control measures and confidence-building arrangements that exist are maintained and developed. We will continue to act in favour of the reduction and disarmament of nuclear weapons in the world. We will also work for stability and developed security in our neighbourhood and for our country. When a single government follows the negotiations under way within the framework of the UN for four weeks, I assume that the Minister of Defence, the Ministry of Defence and the rest of the government have a very good insight into what is being negotiated and discussed, that one weighs different consequences for what such an agreement may eventually lead to and that one sees the practical impact assessments that are being evaluated. I assume that the Ministry of Defence has done so even during this negotiation and that it has weighed off and given its picture to those who have negotiated on behalf of Sweden what practical consequences this has. When it is so clearly described by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this does not affect either bilateral or multilateral cooperation, it is a contrast to read the statements and correspondence that have taken place between the US Secretary of Defence and the Swedish Ministry of Defence and the Swedish Minister of Defence. They present a completely different picture, angle and interpretation of what this would mean for our bilateral cooperation with the US in the field of defence. To ask these questions is neither the business of the United States nor that of any other state. It is about working for Sweden's security and taking advantage of the opportunities that lie in developed, strengthened and long-term bilateral and multilateral cooperation. It is also a matter of seriously paying attention to what is happening in Russia and evaluating what we need to have in order for this building security together with others to have a real foundation and not just a rhetoric that falls when it is tested in a sharp way. I assume that the Minister for Defence has a clear picture of the practical consequences. It would be desirable to know more in the debate about the value of conducting this investigation. When is it planned to be ready? How will the results of the investigation be presented to the House and individual committees so that we can continue to evaluate the steps to be taken in individual cooperation? And again, why does Sweden come to a completely different conclusion from what our Finnish brothers do? It is a country with which we give special priority and with which the Minister for Defence devotes a great deal of time and effort in developing cooperation with the military field. How can we draw such totally different conclusions about the consequences of this agreement?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-562	Mr President, I would like to I am deeply concerned about the nuclear threat. We have seen what has happened in the last few weeks in North Korea, and about half of the world's nuclear warheads are in the Russian Federation. The Minister of Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have completely failed to explain how this nuclear agreement would somehow help prevent North Korea from continuing to develop its bombs and somehow try to prevent Russia from having half of the world's combined nuclear warheads. None of the nuclear weapons-bearing countries is in favour of this agreement. The criticism that has also been made against it is that it cannot be verified. In addition, there are those who believe that it is a pure threat to the Non-Proliferation Treaty, which is a cornerstone. The central point is that this investigation is now being opened up. You could have done that three quarters of a year ago, but now you're doing it. Then I must ask an honest question to the Minister for Defence: A credible investigation can come to the conclusion that it is not in Sweden's interest – for Swedish defence, for Swedish security and Swedish defence equipment – to sign the agreement. Is the Secretary of Defense prepared to abstain? It is interesting that the Minister for Defence has a strong friend in the Left Party's Stig Henriksson who, in the speaker's chair, thunders on like he would attack what he calls the war exercise Aurora. He assumes that the government will sign the agreement. If the investigation is honest, the Minister of Defence should open up to such conclusions and recommendations that the government will want to refrain from signing. Otherwise, the investigation has already been decided and does not need to be carried out. The question remains: Why does Sweden choose to do something completely different from Finland when we are traditionally so close to each other?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-570	Mr President, I would like to In my last post I did not have time with Hans Wallmark, but now it is time. There is reason to be very critical of some statements by Russia regarding the use and possession of nuclear weapons and what that means. Hans Wallmark says they're the only ones who do that. No, as recently as a week ago, I heard the President of the United States in principle in clear verbs threatening nuclear war. What do you have nuclear weapons to do if you're not going to use them? Like he said in the election campaign. Hans Wallmark doesn't even have the numbers right. According to Sipri, NATO has 7,625 nuclear warheads and Russia 7,700. What is interesting, however, is not those who are in stock, but those who are deployed. There NATO has 2 330 and Russia has 1 790. Like it was so important. Unfortunately, there are far too many on both sides. Worse still, large sums of money are spent on modernising their nuclear weapons. Russia's amount is unknown to me, but the United States already decided under Obama to spend $250 billion on developing nuclear weapons. Britain is heading in the same direction. It is developed to use it in tactical terms. Mikael Oscarsson thinks there's a blow in the air. It's better than a nuclear warhead in the air. Of the three weapons of mass destruction that exist, two are prohibited. It has had an effect, even if it is not 100%. However, the most dangerous thing we should leave behind. The Dutch Government did not want to attend this conference, but Parliament forced them. They went there and voted no, as the only country out of 123. The country that you submit to all the time, Mikael Oscarsson, is called USA. America is something much bigger. When the U.S. calls out to the Alliance, jump! How high does the only question seem to be? And I think that's sad. No, think again on this matter!
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-578	Mr President, I would like to In the explanation of vote that we made at the UN, we made a statement that the NPT for us is the basis for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. That is something that was highlighted in the explanation of vote. I also listed all the other points we highlighted – that we wanted to consider the consequences and so on. On the basis of that, we have then come to the conclusion that we are going to conduct an investigation. We will be presenting investigative directives in the near future, and then the timing of the implementation of this study will also be presented. I would like to come back to Parliament and the committees concerned. We will deal with this issue. Let me then repeat what I said earlier. It will be a referral period, then the government will take a position and then, if it is to be ratified, it is the Riksdag that decides on it. That's the path. If you're going to conduct an investigation with all the parameters that I've presented – it's not just one thing but many – you have to do it thoroughly and seriously. It is not a rigged investigation that will now be conducted, but we will have to wait and see how it comes out. Then you have to decide how to proceed on the matter. When I listen to you in the opposition, I do not hear that you have one single thought about how to deal with the nuclear issue. It's just rhetoric. There is not a single initiative. When you were in government for eight years, you basically never addressed this issue in any constructive sense or took any initiatives on it. Go home and see if you have any ideas of your own about how to get to this with nuclear weapons! I am fully aware of the need to involve the nuclear powers in dialogue in order to achieve something. They're the ones with the nukes. You have to put the whole thing in the picture. It's just like when we assess our own neighborhood. We can't just look at Sweden. What we have now built is a balance with the Baltics, Finland and down towards Poland, Germany and Denmark. Exercise activities are related to this. What both Mrs Wallström and I have emphasised, and which, as I said in my introduction, is very serious on our part, is that national defence capabilities should be strengthened alongside the continuing development of our defence and security cooperation. This is the official policy we have, and we shall follow that. But we must also be able to look at the nuclear issue in some way so that we can move forward. You yourself have described the problem here today in part. I have no opinion other than Wallmark of the Russian nuclear weapons. I would be surprised if anyone had any different views on what is happening in North Korea. That would be very strange. It's a central problem for humanity. Nuclear weapons are the only weapons of mass destruction not yet banned. Here we need to think: How do we get forward? Do you have any ideas that are anything but just saying no? In this debate, I trace nothing more than the fact that you think this is bad, but you don't have much to do on your own.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-585	Mr President, I would like to In this House, I am sure every Member of Parliament shares the view that nuclear weapons are the most terrible thing to imagine. It is terrible when Russia threatens with them. It is terrible when it happens in North Korea, and it is terrible when it happens in Iran. But when we act, we have to do it carefully. It will be very strange when we see that Sweden voted in favour of the text on 7 July, and then the article was written. Is it really the case that our first analysis showed that our bilateral and multilateral defence cooperation, including the partnership with NATO and cooperation with the United States, France and the United Kingdom, can continue? I would like the Minister for Defence to talk about this in his final speech. Do you have no idea what these countries think or what the consequences are? Was the letter from America a surprise? Was it a surprise with the courtship of the United States' highest representative in Sweden, who said that this was not compatible? Finland says that this undermines the non-proliferation agreements that exist and work and that it also removes the NATO option. You in the government usually say that you are a cooperative government. But this is perhaps the biggest decision since 1948 when it was decided not to join NATO. This isn't something you can just turn on and on. If we were to sign this, according to information from America, it would take three years to restore it. Anyone who would rub their hands on Sweden would go on and sign this is Putin. That would radically change the situation and remove the NATO option. That is why Finland has taken a clear stand.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-589	Mr President, I would like to Many questions have been asked during this debate. Not everyone has been affected or answered by the Secretary of Defense. There is every reason to follow up on the issues and developments in the field in the coming autumn, as well as how it will be if Sweden, as a single Nordic country, chooses to sign this – if Sweden chooses a completely different path from Finland – and what practical consequences it will have for our military cooperation with different countries. I feel that the Minister for Defence has some different pictures about the role of the Government and the Riksdag. After all, it is the government that now has the opportunity to sign the agreement, and then various parts are to be ratified by the Riksdag. But an agreement signed by the government, at least as I understand it, is binding. This is still important. I assume and hope that the investigation that will now be set up also has a high degree of transparency, that there is parliamentary transparency and a link and that there is also military and security policy competence that takes a large part in the work and also follows the various consequences. When the signals from the important cooperation countries we have show that this would limit our ability to build security together with others in our neighbourhood, we must take it seriously. I would like to thank the Minister for Defence and others for this debate and will come back on this matter.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-594	Mr President, I would like to I would like to reiterate that we already said on 7 July at the UN that we would consider the consequences in a number of areas – civil nuclear industry, trade, research, protection research and so on, as well as defence and security policy interests. We also indicated that the NPT is the basis for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. This was already said in connection with the handling of this at the UN. It was also said that a decision to ratify and accede to the Convention will have to be taken by Parliament. This is therefore clear to the environment. Therefore, I believe that there is a logic in marking this on 7 July, setting up an investigation, going through all this seriously and then returning. This is a fine work with many balances and parameters. This fact of finding out what partners think and think is also about having a dialogue. The dialogue can also address what we are willing to do together to tackle the nuclear issue. It is an opportunity in this context. When I say that the nuclear powers should also be confronted and included in this kind of dialogue, I mean it. Here we must be able to operate both lines also during the investigation period. What other states have said to us in various contexts is about intergovernmental relations. For reasons of confidentiality, I cannot stand in this Chamber and account for it. That's impossible. Nor can I account for any letters written between countries. We will come back with investigation directives, times for the investigation and how this is to be arranged. It will be a serious investigation that forms the basis for a good decision.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-600	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Bäckström has asked me several questions. The first question concerns what measures I intend to take to facilitate the application or amendment of the LIS legislation in order to strengthen rural development. The Swedish beach protection is unique in an international perspective together with the right of public access. Strand protection rules aim to create the conditions for public access to nature experiences and for the preservation of biodiversity in coastal locations. The beach zone is also particularly important for biodiversity. At the same time, there is flexibility in the rules to promote rural development and local decision-making. Several changes to beach protection legislation have taken place in recent years. In particular, the amendments from 2009 and 2010 have changed the assumptions by extending the right to decide to municipalities and adding the derogation for rural development in coastal areas, LIS. A rule on new possibilities for abolishing shore protection in small lakes and watercourses came into force as late as 2014. The changes to the beach protection rules have thus been in force for a relatively short period of time. The government wants to see a vibrant countryside that can be developed, while preserving an attractive landscape and protecting valuable natural environments. According to the government, there is potential to develop the LIS rules for this purpose. The Government therefore commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in March of this year to review the rules on rural development in the coastal location of the Environmental Code and the Planning and Construction Act(2010:900)(M2017/ 00778/ Nm, M2017/ 00712/ Nm). The mission was to review the LIS rules and their application and to propose constitutional changes and any other measures. The purpose of the mission was to further promote rural development with housing and entrepreneurship in areas with good access to beaches without jeopardising the values that the beach protection aims to protect in the long term. Particular focus will be placed on expanding the possibilities of building permanent dwellings. The assignment was presented to the Government Office on August 28, 2017, and preparation is ongoing. The second question concerns how I intend to achieve the proposal of the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development that the government should ensure that the reform of the coastal protection rules has the intended effect. The Government decided on 25 June 2015 on a committee directive for a coherent policy for Sweden's rural areas ( Dir. 2015:73). The investigation took the name of the Parliamentary Rural Committee. According to the Directives, the Committee is not required to evaluate or propose amendments to beach protection legislation. However, I have noted that the Committee has made certain proposals regarding beach protection in its final report. The report has been consulted and the comments received are currently being prepared in the Government Office. Finally, Daniel Bäckström has also asked what initiatives I will take to comply with the proposal of the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development to limit and clarify the area of national interests with a view to facilitating rural development. The proposal of the inquiry has been referred, and the consultation period ended on 28 February this year. The investigation's proposals are currently being prepared within the Government Office, and I cannot therefore now comment on which of the proposals the investigation has made may result in a change in legislation. At present, therefore, the three questions raised by Daniel Bäckström in the Government Office are being prepared. I and the government are closely following the issue of the application and importance of beach protection rules for both the development of society and the preservation of the values the rules aim to protect.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-608	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. This is a very important issue that concerns Sweden's rural development, which the Minister mentions, and how we can ensure that we have constructions in the country. I am from Värmland and live in Säffle and for quite a number of years I have engaged myself locally in survey planning and the possibilities of producing ready-to-use plots. I have been there during the trip when the Riksdag has made it possible for rural development in coastal locations – LIS areas – and given the assignment to the review of extended beach protection that was done for a few years. I have also seen how the applications have become in practice, both when it comes to the county boards' choices and when it comes to the dialogue between landowners, the state and the municipality, and how one today sees possible additions to the adopted thematic additions in some cases for housing planning in a municipality from an overall perspective. However, sometimes the full outline plans also need to be supplemented further if more individual LIS areas are to be identified. For our part at home in Säffle we have the entire peninsula out in Värmlandsnäs, which goes out into Lake Vänern. When you count the bays and the rocks, it's up to 200 miles [300 km] of shoreline. However, it is 10 – 12 mil if you pull the ruler over Värmlandsnäs. Before the review we had an extended beach shelter of 150 meters. After the review, it was 300 meters. When you read the justification for this decision from the State Representative and the Authority, it was well summarized on the top of an A4 page. It does not choose to prioritise and focus on what can lead to development in a rural area, where the population has decreased since the early 70s and where people do not have the economic potential to defend an investment to a sufficient extent because it is built too little. The value of a newly produced building is far from what the cost of production actually is, which means that neither banks nor individuals choose to complete their projects many times. Sometimes you go through with it, but you don't usually do it. There is a need for attractive plots and opportunities. Instead, it chooses to look at the opportunities of mobile outdoor life and other natural values that are important. And we have many perspectives when it comes to Vänern and many inland lakes in the country to take into account. But when you look at this in the long term, our country needs settlements and a committed local population that can remain and operate, develop, nurture and take responsibility in many ways. I note that, instead of creating opportunities by supplementing individual cases and adding a LIS area, the Authority's choice is to say that the whole plan should then be re-established. This will be costly for a municipality, and there will also be a great many processes that in practice limit the possibility of accessibility. This is a pity to me, because this is one way of getting to this turn in many areas. Strand protection drawbacks should be given to the appropriate extent where possible, and new perspectives should be found that allow rather than limit. Now I feel like things are going the wrong way.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-615	Mr President, I would like to When I hear Daniel Bäckström's argument here, I perceive that the main problem is a disappointment and a dissatisfaction with the outcome of the review that the bourgeois government started on the extended shore protection. This is a theme that recurs. I have debated beach protection in this House several times with Members representing the parties behind the previous government. The problem is raised that none of the reforms concerning beach protection carried out by the bourgeois government seems to have fallen out as they wanted. There has been constant dissatisfaction with their own reforms. This also seems to be the case with the review of the extended beach protection. You can draw different conclusions from that. You can be self-critical and admit that it didn't turn out so well. LIS didn't turn out the way it was supposed to. No one seems to be happy with the LIS reform. Bäckström seems dissatisfied with the review decided by the bourgeois government. Bäckström described this as something that belonged in the past. The review is still highly up-to-date. It was a very big overhaul that the bourgeois government started, and it is not finished. We are still dealing with decisions on these issues. There have been a large number of appeals, and many of them are still being dealt with by county boards and the Government Office. So this is an ongoing process that is not finished. We from the government have identified a more specific approach. Currently, housing is being built around Sweden. It is built at the same high level as it was in the 70s. It is not only built in urban areas, it is built around the country, and it is pleasing. But there are measures that we can and want to take to further promote construction around the country. Therefore, we have given a well-defined mandate to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to look at that part, to review the LIS reform and the LIS rules and then come back with proposals that can contribute to increased housing construction. These are proposals for a manageable and reasonable reform which I have recently received from the Authority and which we are currently looking at. We will come back with sharp proposals later.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-619	Mr President, I would like to I can note from the reply that there is work and an analysis going on that will come back to and that the Minister is closely following what is happening in the country. It's important and good. There are many examples of how people experience this. It is always important to learn from the experience of ambitions and decisions in order to make things easier. Long-term consideration must also be given to what is important for the country in order for the whole country to develop. The Rural Committee has so many proposals for Sweden to have developed rural areas. When you talk to people, they often focus on finding the attractive plots. It is often about beachfront accommodation. But we don't have to go as far as building in water. Consideration should be given, as has been done in many LIS areas. There should be a certain distance between the areas and the water that is protected. When granting building permits in a LIS area today, it is often done with reference to where existing buildings are already located. It is then in that part of the LIS area that the building permit is granted, not in other parts, despite the fact that the whole area has been identified in the master plan for some time. There are things that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was commissioned to investigate this spring, and I think that is good. However, the analysis now being carried out of the proposals before us raises the question: are these proposals sufficiently far-reaching to tackle the problem? Is it effective enough to open up the possibility of a more locally adapted application so that you can decide where you want to see the development of entrepreneurship, business and leisure activities? This is not just about housing development. I get signals that the response to the proposals from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is that they are too little. Perhaps the process of change is more about words changing. It is on the margins rather than looking at how to get to the problem. If you will continue to demand a municipality to remake its thematic supplement or outline plan, then it is about long processes. It is rarely that a municipality can point out in advance, in five or ten years' perspective, where it will be built or where people want to build and invest. Often it is not the municipalities that make the investments, and then a long-term flexibility of application is needed that enables the practical deviation from the plan. There is also a need for a different way of thinking in which one may not have the geographical division as the main focus on a LIS area. What should guide is the criteria, special considerations and reasons for taking a further beach protection decision in a municipality. As far as we are concerned, the coastline is 153 km, of which 134 km within the protected area is completely unbuilt, and that is quite a few miles. This is often the case in Sweden's municipalities, which are currently struggling to find the way forward and to achieve long-term sustainable development. I think this should be addressed. There are cases in Säffle, Värmlandsnäs and Södra Ny where visitors' activities are to be developed on a comparatively small scale, but they have been rejected because it falls outside the formal process requirement that in that case the municipality as a whole must adopt a revised master plan. Then it'll be very heavy. We need to find flexibility in the future. Which way does it lean during the trial?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-629	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Bäckström devoted his first speech to the observation that the bourgeois government's review of extended beach protection was not good. It didn't fall out the way it was supposed to. In his second speech, Daniel Bäckström devoted himself to explaining that the former bourgeois government's LIS reform was not good either. I totally agree with that. The LIS reform has a lot to wish for, and we seem to agree on that. That is why we have taken initiatives from the government to develop LIS. There is potential to improve that reform – to put it mildly. But we choose to do it step by step. It is clear that the method chosen by the former bourgeois government – to paint with very broad brushes – has not been successful. Above all, a large number of members of bourgeois parties seem to share that picture because they spend a great deal of time in this House telling us how badly different reforms have fallen out. Right now, there's a lot of building going on. There is great pressure for housing to be built. That is why we have chosen to focus on this issue so that we can deliver, within a reasonable time, a reform concerning housing construction. Then there is room to look further at and develop the issue. This type of reform should not be seen as a solid material but as something that can be developed. I see further opportunities to develop the work on beach protection where you weigh different public interests against each other in community planning.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-634	Mr President, I would like to I have not said that I think these reforms were bad. I think those were great reforms. I have also worked very hard to develop about fifty LIS areas in close dialogue with landowner representatives, all village teams and development groups at home in the municipality that have been engaged for a long time. When it was to be examined in the next instance, there were comments that it was too far from public transport. Well, I said, why should you have any views on where to build in this municipality? I guess we'll have to fix public transport then, if necessary. So it was a central over-view rather than the local bottom-up perspective from which we started. Expectations were high, but the outcome was negative when the government perspective hit and there were comments that there were too many LIS areas. We need these areas with our large municipality. They're very important. It is also a question of looking forward constructively. What now needs to be adjusted to make it possible for people in the next few years to realise their dream of being able to build in those municipalities where there is not enough building? Much is being built in Sweden, but it is not being built in many rural municipalities and certainly not in rural areas. We should make it possible for people to rent their homes in the countryside. That possibility is often lacking. It should also enable people to invest and secure capital for the investment. As far as the Center Party is concerned, we must work for the long term to further reform the protection of the shores. We must transfer the possibility of deciding to the municipalities. They should be allowed to take over the right to decide. But care must also be taken to deal with the areas to be protected. With a focus on opportunities, it should be ensured that it can also be built in more attractive locations. This is an issue that affects many people. I now hope that the ongoing review will lead to good results. Thank you for the debate.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-641	Mr President, I would like to A perspective emerges here that I find worrying when, as a decision-making Member of Parliament, it is said that the authorities should have invented one and the other. Our authorities interpret the laws adopted and implemented by the Riksdag. If this does not work, it is because the laws are either not clear enough or that regulations or mandates to the Authority have not been clear enough. I am reacting to the fact that the parliament blames the authorities for a reform that they have been involved in developing has not been good enough. From a great many quarters, frustration is expressed that the LIS reform has not landed in the way it was hoped. I think it is then a responsibility to say that it was the decisions of those who made the reform that were not good enough. The government has therefore identified that the most relevant thing is to look at the question of how LIS works in relation to the possibility of building permanent housing in rural areas. Reality isn't exactly as dark as it is painted. It is also partly built in Swedish rural areas. But we see a potential to build more homes in Swedish countryside. Therefore, we have taken the initiative for a commission to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to propose changes that can lead to better opportunities for more housing in Sweden's countryside so that the whole country can live.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-644	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson has asked me how I have acted and will continue to act on the construction of Hanhikivi nuclear power plants. New nuclear projects are covered by the Espoo Convention, which regulates consultation on environmental impact assessments for projects with a cross-border significant environmental impact. Finland as well as Sweden and the other parties to the Convention comply with the Convention's acquis. During 2008, Finland conducted consultations on a nuclear power plant at the cape Hanhikiven niemi in Pyhäjoki municipality. I apologize to the Finnish-speaking people for my lack of pronunciation. Subsequently, the energy company in charge, Fennovoima AB, has decided to investigate an alternative type of nuclear reactor in the plant. As this type of reactor was not included in the previous study, an environmental impact assessment with such a reactor type has been developed. During autumn 2013 and spring 2014, Finland conducted consultations under the Espoo Convention with Sweden on the matter. The consultation has been handled in accordance with the regulations by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. During the consultation, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency received opinions from several central authorities, five county boards, nine municipalities, some 20 organisations, and more than 20 responses from individuals. Added to this are a number of lists of names with several hundred signatures. All individuals and a majority of the organisations have been critical of the establishment. In spring 2014, the Finnish Environmental Protection Agency submitted all opinions to the Finnish Ministry of the Environment. In doing so, the consultation has been concluded. The Finnish Government took a decision in principle on 18 September 2014, which means that the Finnish Government is in favour of Fennovoima AB's application to build the current nuclear power plant. The decision has been discussed in the Finnish Parliament, which decided in December 2014 that the decision in principle of the Finnish Government should be maintained. Sweden has used the consultation possibilities regulated by the Espoo Convention, and the Radiation Safety Authority has stated in its opinion that Finland has largely the same safety requirements for nuclear power plants as we have in Sweden, a requirement picture that is regulated by the EU Nuclear Safety Directive. The Authority also notes that the basic construction of the installation is such that the risk of a major accident is small and that in the event of a major accident, the risk of significant emissions is minimised. It is now up to Finland to finally decide on its energy mix and thus also on the current nuclear power plant.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-649	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for the Environment, for your answer. My working name for this interpellation was Matteus 23:24. If the Minister of the Environment has missed his Bible studies, I can tell you that this is the piece about sifting mosquitoes and swallowing camels. I had this in mind mainly from the point of view of security, because I am a defence policy. Given the big alarm about the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline, I felt – not from an environmental point of view, which would be justified, but from a safety point of view – that the silence about the Pyhäjoki nuclear power plant has been deafening. By the way, I say Pyhäjoki. It means about Sundayfors or sacred rapids, which is very beautiful. Hanhikivi means goosestone. If the Minister for the Environment, who comes from another country, wants to, she can use the Swedish designations – which, however, are my own translations. The background is as follows. 150 km from Haparanda, Kalix, Luleå, Piteå and Skellefteå, the state-owned Russian Rosatom builds a nuclear power plant. It is owned by Fennovoima, in which Rosatom itself is the largest partner. The company is also a developer. Rosatom is almost a state with several hundred thousand employees, and it is responsible for both peaceful and military nuclear technology. If I may dwell on the safety aspect, this is what becomes so fascinating. Unlike what it's like in Lithuania and unlike the big debate on the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline, this project has passed almost completely under the media but also the political radar in Sweden. After all, we are talking about a nuclear plant near Swedish population centres. It is owned and built by a state-owned Russian company that also manages military nuclear technology. The big difference here compared to the gas project is that we have a connected electricity network with Finland. But this is about security policy, and it is the Minister for the Environment that I have put my interpellation to, so let us move on to that part. With Harrisburg, Chernobyl and Fukushima in mind, there are major environmental policy questions. I therefore ask the Minister for the Environment how the Swedish Government has acted and how it will act. To be honest, the answer is not at all. The authorities and committed individuals and associations have been left entirely to handle the writing of referrals. With this, the matter is considered to be closed. I find such a formal, not to say formalistic, attitude by a Green Minister for the Environment saddens me. The Green Party was founded in 1981 much as a protest against the management of nuclear power. The nuclear accident in Fukushima in 2011 is just one of many reminders of how unsafe nuclear energy is as an energy source and what enormous environmental and health damage it can cause. I've stolen that sentence from the Green Party's website. We can compare with the Danes. They have not been as formalistic about Barsebäck. Let me take an example. 15 years ago, Denmark's various governments had made it clear that Barsebäck would be closed. But when Sweden would invest 100 million in a small modernisation, the storm broke out. Denmark's former Minister for the Environment Svend Auken, S, said that the proposal was incomprehensible. The then Minister for the Environment, who came from the Liberal Venstre, expressed his surprise and said that it was serious and set up an investigation. So they acted at political level in a completely different way – a social democrat and a liberal! But the Minister for the Environment refers to the authorities and others. Why don't you talk out of your beard if the Minister for the Environment had anything?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-658	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the question can be viewed in different ways. But I think like this: I am incredibly happy and grateful that we have international conventions governing how countries should consult each other in the establishment of nuclear power plants and that these regulations are independent of the government in each country. They do not depend on whether there is a question of nuclear power in a government at that particular time, but it is handled systematically and clearly. As my accounting shows, these processes are very long. The first consultation began many years ago and has been ongoing. The views from Sweden are brought together by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which collects them from authorities and individuals and submits them in good order. Even if it is a formalistic and somewhat boring answer, this is a much safer system than if we were to rely on a nuclear-critical attitude in the respective government. I must say, however, that I think this is a better order. The Espoo Convention is incredibly important, but I can only see that Finland has behaved well and in every way lived up to its commitments under this Convention.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-661	Mr President, I would like to It was no coincidence that Barsebäck was the first nuclear power plant to be completely shut down – constant pressure came from Denmark's various governments. I see no contradiction between having good conventions on the one hand, such as the Espoo Convention, and, on the other hand, being politicians and acting politically. My idea is: Does the Minister for the Environment think that it was wrong for Denmark to get through the closure of Barsebäck? If so, it would be very surprising. Politics cannot be based solely on bureaucratic and formalistic methods. That is the basis, but then we are constantly pursuing politics, I hope. I don't think the Minister for the Environment should just think about the protocol. In the interpellation response, the Minister for the Environment says that it is now up to Finland to finally decide on its energy mix and thus also on the nuclear power plant in question. It's very much given up. Instead, we could perhaps continue the dialogue, just like the Danes, which persisted year after year until a decision was passed. I think this is sad. I understand that it is not easy to sit in government. I haven't been in government at this level, but I've been chairing the council for 16 years. Then dreams must face reality, sometimes a little merciless. But this is not necessary. This shows the Danish example, in which social democrats and liberals can be politically offensive in an important and crucial matter for them. I would appeal to the Minister for the Environment: try in this case to influence our Finnish friends! We have good contacts with them in so many areas. A nuclear power plant only 150 kilometres from fairly large areas of population density – to be Norrland anyway – is not very successful, beyond the safety policy aspects, which are not the subject of today's debate. It is not always enough to follow the protocol, write referrals, thank you for the coffee and settle for it. Sometimes we have to conduct politics too. I believe that the citizens expect this. A hope and a call: Sing out!
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-666	Mr President, I would like to The government's line is clear. The way forward for Swedish energy policy is 100% renewable. I know we agree on that part. It is also Swedish politics, decided in Sweden, that has meant that we have been told this term of office that four reactors will be closed down in Sweden. We have created the conditions for the complete explosion of renewable energy. The government's line at European level is the same. We are working to get the same turnout among EU countries and to get more people to realise that the future is renewable. One method for this is the Energy Union. We are also having other discussions on this in the context of climate action. These are the democratic tools we have. In talks with other countries, we try to convince them of what is to be seen as the future. We are very clear and consistent both in terms of internal policy and foreign policy in this part. We are working and trying to influence our neighbours and other Member States of the European Union. But then we have a formal process of setting up new nuclear power plants. This is regulated by international conventions. I can only see that Finland has lived up to its commitments under the Espoo Convention. I think it would be inappropriate for me to comment on or blame a country that has done what it is supposed to do in accordance with the common convention we are working under.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-669	Mr President, I would like to As far as I know, no one in Denmark accused Sweden of not complying with the rules and regulations in force at the time when we built and operated the nuclear power plant in Barsebäck. They went against it politically anyway, when they thought it was a danger to large population centres – Copenhagen, Zealand and so on. As I said, there is no contradiction between having a formalised system in which authorities with others work according to normal procedures and so on and at the same time acting politically. One does not replace the other. This is very sad, and I certainly do not say polemically, but for real. I was part of the great campaign against nuclear power and experienced the great betrayal of the three lines and decommissioning with reason, which in reality meant something quite different for a very long time. The Green Party was formed from the remains of this disappointment and has contributed a great deal to both environmental debate and environmental policy. But now there has been a big change. It can be dated to entry into the government, as it became a completely different reality. It's still sad. Japan's Liberal Democrats are abolishing nuclear power. Germany's Christian Democrats are abolishing nuclear power. In Sweden, we are making a compromise which means that six reactors are still being operated. In addition, it is allowed to build ten new ones, if anyone should have it, which I hope and believe will not be the case. But now we are almost getting new nuclear power in the country. Just a few miles away, it's built by state Rosatom. I think it is a sad development for the Nordic countries that Swedish electricity supply becomes dependent on a Russian state-owned company. But also from an environmental point of view, this poses great risks. I can only send with a pious hope: Think for a while more! We can do so much more than just write referrals.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-673	Mr President, I would like to I fully share Stig Henriksson's view that we can do so much more than write referrals. I am extremely proud of the result that we have been able to deliver during this term of office, with a broad agreement that states that the future of Sweden is renewable. We have taken a series of decisions which have led us to hear during our term of office that four reactors will be closed down. It's a great success. I'm incredibly proud of that. The reason we get this kind of decision is because we have rigged the conditions for renewable energy, so that it can grow and take over the world, which I think will happen. We are very active in our contacts with our neighbours and not least all the Member States of the European Union in order to make everyone realise that the future is renewable and that we are jointly creating the economic conditions that will enable the sun and wind to prevail, just as the voice of the songs was during, for example, the fight against Barsebäck. The activists will be right.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-674	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has asked me what contacts I and the government had with the Danish Government on the issue of sand sucking in Öresund and what possible results have been achieved by the contacts and asked how I and the government are prepared to act in the future to address the problem. I welcome Jonas Gjörtler's attention to the marine natural values in Öresund. I am well aware that municipalities and environmental organisations have drawn the attention of both the Danish and Swedish governments to the issue of sand suction and also raised demands for protection of the area. The County Administrative Board of Skåne County and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency have a dialogue with Danish authorities about sand sucking in Öresund. International consultations on cross-border environmental impacts are the responsibility of the authorities. Consultation procedures between countries have been established. Swedish authorities are now receiving sand-sucking cases and also proposals for amendments to relevant legislation for consultation. During the spring, Denmark has also tightened the requirements for environmental impact assessments in cases related to sand suction. The Government keeps itself informed through the County Administrative Board of Skåne County and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency about the dialogue between the Swedish and Danish authorities. The protection of marine natural values is a high priority of the government. The Government has therefore provided specifically targeted funds to strengthen the work, which also contributes to the authorities' capacity to work with, among other things, Öresund. Since well-functioning nature conservation in Öresund requires action on both the Swedish and Danish sides, a dialogue has also been initiated between Swedish and Danish authorities on the protection of marine natural values. The aim of the Swedish authorities is to be able to start joint work with the Danish authorities to introduce functional conservation measures for the marine natural values of the area. Both Denmark and Sweden are also working to implement the EU Marine Environment Directive. The Directive states that good environmental status is to be achieved by 2020 and also includes requirements for regional cooperation. As part of the implementation of the Directive, close cooperation is ongoing between the Maritime and Water Authority and the Danish authorities. I can assure Jonas Gjörtler that the government is actively monitoring the government's work on protecting and preserving the Öresund natural values.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-681	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would first like to say something brief about the background to the question. It is about sand suction in Öresund and the problems created because of this. Öresund is a very special habitat for marine life, partly because of the special current conditions and also the special depth conditions that exist here, and we have the transition between salt water and brackish water. This makes Öresund quite special. When you pick up sand and remove it from the bottom and Sundet to use it creates a variety of problems. In sensitive areas, sand sucking can threaten erosion-prone beach. Demersal flora and fauna can be threatened, as well as marine archaeological remains. One fisherman put it this way in an interview in SVT: Where the sandsucker has been there is no fish. That's what it looks like quite often. Öresund is divided between Sweden and Denmark. This means that these kinds of issues must be dealt with between the two countries concerned. In some cases it is going quite well, and in others it may not go as well. We have a long-standing ban on bottom trawling in Öresund. We have since 1932. It is an agreement between Sweden and Denmark that applies in Öresund, which is very good. It has also contributed to the valuable wildlife that exists in Sundet. When it comes to the issue of sand suction, there is a ban on the Swedish part of Öresund since 1982, which is basically very good. This does not mean that at all times it is completely out of the question that you can take sand. But you have to ask for a special permit. It simply requires the permission of the Water Court if you are to do so on the Swedish side. On the Danish side, there is no such ban, which creates a number of problems. The sand is picked up because you want to use it when making concrete. The quality of the sand is considered very good. Now the conditions are slightly different in Sweden and Denmark. In Sweden, we may have a better chance of finding sand in other places on land than they think they have in Denmark. That is why Denmark wants to continue to be able to pick up the sand. You could solve this in other ways. It is not a question of pointing your finger at the Danes and saying: you have to do this or you have to do that. But it is incredibly important that you have an ongoing dialogue to try to see if you can find ways forward. If we cannot achieve a total ban in a short term perspective, we may at least be able to phase out the operation and replace it with other things in order to achieve a ban in any case in a little bit of the long term. I think that would be very good. The Minister for the Environment answers quite thoroughly here about some measures being taken and about contacts between the Swedish and Danish authorities that one has on this issue, among other things. That's well-lawed. I think it's excellent. But my question was about what the government is doing and what it has done. I do not see how the Minister for the Environment has answered the questions I asked. What contacts has the government had on this issue with the Danish Government? What else is the government prepared to do to overcome the problem? I also referred to a letter sent from 14 coastal municipalities on both the Swedish and Danish sides. It is also signed by 13 environmental organisations. It is reported that the Minister for the Environment has not responded. I would like to ask the question as to why this is the case. It should not be impossible for the Minister for the Environment to explain the government's position on this and what has been done and has not done in particular with regard to contacts with the Danish Government.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-690	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to inform you that protection of marine areas is a high priority for the government. We have taken a large number of measures. I am pleased that Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler also sees the protection of the marine area as a priority and shares my concern for Öresund as an important and sensitive marine area. It has some protection, for example, with regard to trawling bans which have a clear positive effect. At the same time, however, there are also a number of concerns in Öresund. The contacts between countries at government level have intensified. The County Administrative Board in Skåne County will this autumn, together with the Danish Miljøstyrelsen, conduct a joint study of the bottom area Disken in Öresund to study the effects of Danish sand sucking in the area on both Swedish and Danish natural values. This is the type of activity that can provide a basis for further action. If, for example, we get an idea or knowledge of the impact on Swedish natural values, it is of course something that we move on with. There is, as mentioned, a lot of contact between Danish and Swedish municipalities in these parts. There are also, as I said, collaborations on the water. This concerns fishing and the protection of water. Marine and water authorities are involved in contacts with their counterparts, and the County Administrative Board is very active and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is active. As I can describe, this is a question of working actively at government level. That is why we have found no reason to raise it between governments. The contact that is taking place is between our authorities. The Government remains up-to-date through the County Administrative Board. Since I have some time left, I cannot resist the opportunity to mention something. I hope that the President and the honourable Member will accept that I am making a deviation from the subject. There is such amazing good news. Yesterday, for the first time in a very long time, tuna was seen in Öresund. It was something that previously existed and provided the basis for a large tourism business and good business. Yesterday, some marine biologists were able to photograph tuna in Öresund. I know it's an anomaly, but I'm so glad I couldn't help but mention it.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-697	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As I said, I think that much of what is described about contacts between authorities on the Swedish and Danish sides is things that are commendable and important. It is very good that it is done. At the same time, it is quite obvious that this is a type of contact that has been going on for quite some time. Various initiatives from municipalities, for example, have been going on for some time. Perhaps I do not really see any progress being made on this particular issue as clearly as I think one could expect after a while. I mentioned that 14 coastal municipalities, 7 Swedish and 7 Danish, together with 13 environmental organisations have written a letter. They sent it to both the Danish Minister for the Environment and the Swedish Minister for the Environment. The Danish Minister for the Environment has responded to that. He rejects the demand to stop the sand-sucking. He puts it this way: I do not think that Öresund needs further protection, and I see no reason to initiate a joint agreement with Sweden. It is quite categorical and clear. We now note that the Minister for the Environment has not responded to this. I think it would be useful if the Swedish Government made more active contact with the Danish Government to hold talks on this. I think – it is quite obvious – that if the Danish Minister for the Environment expresses himself this categorically and clearly, there is quite little to suggest that the subservient authorities, especially in Denmark where they have ministerial government in a completely different way than we have in Sweden, would like to go into a sharper position. From the Danish side, it has been said that the sand is valuable and that one would like to continue to pick it up. They say that limiting or banning this would cause considerable costs for the Danish construction industry. All of this, taken together, just underscores the point I am trying to make here: this calls for action on the part of the government. The two governments must discuss this and find a way forward. As long as you from the Danish side are so categorical and say no, nothing will happen on the Danish side, and then we stand and stomping. This should be seen as an urgent call to the government. I note from the reply that no contacts have been made on the matter, at least not in the near future, between the Swedish Government and the Danish Government. This may be an invitation from me to the Minister for the Environment. I hope that this kind of contact can be made and that the government, especially the Minister for the Environment, is doing what it can to try to put the issue on the Danish agenda and find solutions. The Danish municipalities, which have also signed the letters, should be of interest to the Danish Minister for the Environment to relate to. There is no lack of proposals for solutions, but there is talk of the possibility of continuing to pick up sand but from elsewhere, further out. It may not be the only solution or the main solution, but it may be a way of at least reducing the problems of this sensitive environment in the Öresund. I know that some Danish municipalities have made such comments. As I said in my previous speech, it is probably unlikely that a quick solution will be found in which a ban will be imposed immediately. However, some form of dialogue in order to find a transitional solution in which one can phase out the business and replace it with something else should in any case be a reasonable level of ambition for the government.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-706	Mr President, I would like to As is said, the issue has been discussed for a long time. The first letter concerning the protection of Öresund came to the government in 2013, i.e. to the then Minister of the Environment Lena Ek. At the time, the alliance government handed over the matter of protection to the responsible authority. Otherwise, this has been going on since then. As I said in my reply, there have since been improvements in the consultation between our authorities. Now our authorities are getting questions about the consensus for a referral. That is an improvement that has taken place. The information we have received from the County Administrative Board in Skåne is that the Danish authorities do as they have agreed and leave cases for sand sucking on referral to Sweden. As I mentioned, there will be a survey in the autumn if this affects Swedish natural values. If this study concludes that the Danish sand sucking affects Swedish natural values and if we get this as a fact on paper, it can of course also lead to contacts at government level. There is also another process under way in the transposition of the EU Marine Environment Directive, which is working to establish ecosystem-based maritime plans. There, Öresund is a special area of depression. This work is ongoing in consultation with Denmark, and the sea plan shall be decided by the Government in 2021. These are long processes, and that is because this requires long-term work. But the interaction between our authorities is active, and I can guarantee that we are following the issue.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-710	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for the Environment, for your answer and for the development of reasoning. What is described about the fact that we are now receiving referrals to the Swedish side of measures that we intend to take on the Danish side is positive. That is a step in the right direction, if you will. Nevertheless, the conclusion remains, especially when one sees the Danish Minister for the Environment's clear answer: more is needed and something more needs to be done. I would just like to underline once again my call to the government. The work of the authorities on both sides, both on the Swedish and Danish sides, is excellent. But that will not be enough, because as long as the Danish Government has the position it has, the Danish authorities will not continue to ban this type of activity either. This means that contacts will be required. To conclude, I would like to put the direct question to the Minister for the Environment: Is the Minister for the Environment prepared to initiate a dialogue with the Danish Government on this issue?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-713	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by giving a more thorough background: in order for our authorities to be able to work actively with nature conservation, for example with neighbouring countries in border areas, where Öresund is a clear example, it is important that they have sufficient resources. This government has made strong reinforcements of the ability of the authorities, for example, to conduct in-depth studies of the situation in different marine environments and how human activity affects natural values. That is why we can, for example, carry out the type of studies that will take place this autumn. It is precisely about Disken in Öresund and to study the effect of Danish sand suction in the area to see if it has effects on Swedish natural values. If we get that kind of facts on the table – that Danish activity has an impact on our natural values – I see that it can give us reason to contact at government level.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-715	Mr President, I would like to Emma Wallrup has asked the Minister for Climate Change whether she intends to take any initiatives to create national climate campaigns and clearer information campaigns, for example in the form of mailings to the citizens, and whether she intends to take into account the new and urgent state of the climate system in the government's work on strategies for changing travel behaviour. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I would like to start by thanking Emma Wallrup for raising the important issue of sustainable travel and the climate impact of aviation. Emissions from aviation are increasing. In Sweden, the number of international flights per inhabitant has more than doubled since the early 1990s and quadrupled since the 1980s. According to a recent report from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, climate impact from our international flying emissions is equivalent to all driving in Sweden. Even if the challenges are great, things happen in Sweden and the world around them. The Paris Agreement of December 2015 states that the global temperature increase should be kept below 2 degrees and makes it clear that we should strive to keep it at 1.5 degrees. The recently adopted climate policy framework with offensive climate targets, a climate law and a climate policy council provide the conditions for Sweden to change to become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. The government considers the low taxation of aviation to be unreasonable in relation to its climate impact. In order for aviation to pay more for its climate costs, the government will propose the introduction of a flight tax. However, as in the rest of the transport system, a package of measures will be needed to reduce the climate impact of aviation. Therefore, the Government intends to investigate possible measures to increase the amount of biofuels in aviation. The government also continues to invest in the railways to strengthen the train as an alternative to aviation. When it comes to informing citizens from the state authorities about what private individuals themselves can contribute to limit climate impact, I can see that a great deal is already part of the authorities' mandate. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is an environmental management authority and must be a driving force in environmental work. Among other things, they have the task of making knowledge about environmental work available to the public. The Swedish Consumer Agency has the Government's mission to ensure that consumers have access to information and guidance that allows them to make balanced choices. Among other things, it is a matter of monitoring consumers' opportunities to act in an environmentally sustainable way. I note that Transportstyrelsen and Trafikverket also have an important responsibility. Within their areas of responsibility, the authorities must work towards achieving the environmental quality objectives, and the Finnish Transport Administration must in particular acquire and disseminate knowledge and information about, among other things, accessibility and the environment within its area of responsibility. The Government also established the Environmental Goals Council, which started its work in 2015. There, 17 heads of government work under Maria Wetterstrand's leadership to take further steps within the framework of their respective mandates in order for Sweden to meet the environmental objectives decided by the Riksdag. The Environmental Target Council also has a mandate to return to the Government with proposals for measures or missions that are outside the current responsibility of the authorities but that could have significant environmental and climate effects. The climate is the destiny of our time. It is a cross-cutting issue, and the government is therefore actively working to integrate a climate and environmental perspective into all relevant strategy work. During its term of office, the government plans to present a letter on living cities, a freight transport strategy and a climate strategy. Sustainable transport will be an important theme in these products.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-723	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt that we are now in a changing climate. The thunder is thawing faster and faster, and the melting of ice and the number of forest fires are increasing. We need to speed up the transition, and we also need to look at how we can deal with the reinforcement mechanisms that have started. There is ongoing research into how bait can prevent the rapid melting of permafrost with increased methane emissions in Russia. We must press ahead with this work. I would like to say in this debate that this part is also important. Here we should push in the EU to support projects in Russia and perhaps even talk with President Putin. He is very patriarchal in many different ways, but he did mention the environment as a matter of destiny, so perhaps here are unexpected bridges to build when the earth is in such a deadly situation as it is. I'll get back to the topic of the day. Most citizens have understood that it is important to act. There are studies that show that most people want to act but do not really know what to do. They come from different Councils in newspapers and elsewhere, and it can exacerbate and confuse when it comes to getting the citizens, who have much else to think about, to actually act. This does not make it any easier for the options not to be sufficiently developed either. That is why I really believe that uniform information on the part of the state would be important. For example, in the area of transport, many believe that leaving the car at home and cycling is enough, but then they fly more and more. In the 1970s and 1980s, the oil crisis provided advice to citizens on how to help save energy. Now that we are in an even more acute situation and it is very urgent to speed up climate change, regular information to citizens about what they can do, what the state does and perhaps what companies do. Then we can feel that the people together with the state and other actors are acting. Processes have started that researchers have warned about can lead to a climateslide. We stand at the edge of such a stage if we do not act incredibly quickly. This is where we need to pull our emergency brake. In fact, I and the Left Party would like to see an investigation into carbon dioxide rationing already now, but one way of speeding up the transition would be to target this kind of information in order to provide greater incentives to really act together.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-729	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, that's really true. Climate change is here and now. We see dramatic effects of an increase in average temperatures around the country. Although we cannot derive specific events from climate change, this is how scientists have pointed out: that storms become more severe and that rain contains more water each time. We see it happening here and now. This also causes many citizens to worry about the future, not least children and young people. It is incredibly important that we do not leave people, especially the children, alone with those thoughts and in a hopeless situation where you do not feel that you can influence your future. It is important that we create the opportunity with political tools for citizens to make sustainable choices in their everyday lives. From the government's side, we work on the basis of the conviction that it should be easy to do the right thing. Sustainable options should be available in terms of cost, but above all practical. This is one of the reasons why we focus a lot on transport issues in both climate work and environmental work. The most important thing is to look at the conditions. It's about infrastructure. The infrastructure for walking and cycling should be such that you do not hesitate to use it. It should be safe and secure for everyone. Trains should be dependable, etcetera, and sustainable choices should be available. I see that the bulk of this type of effort to make it easy to do justice lies in the planning of society. This is one of the reasons why we, the government, are working to develop a national urban development policy for Sweden for the first time. Former governments have crossed their arms on these issues and said that it is only about the conditions of the municipalities and have not looked at whether the municipalities have the tools they need to make it easy for citizens in everyday life. I can see that they do not have it today, and that is why a national policy is needed that gives municipalities the tools to create good everyday conditions for their citizens, including in terms of climate-smart infrastructure and making sustainable alternatives available. The research is quite clear that information can have an effect when linked to physical changes or instruments. In this respect, I believe that the air tax has two functions. It is a tax, and it will be somewhat more expensive to fly, but not least it is a very clear political signal that aviation has a climate impact and that those who choose the flight will be involved in paying for the climate impact. The debate we have had on air tax, although one may have views on how factual it has been, has attracted the attention of many citizens to the fact that aviation has a major impact on the climate. So instruments often have several parts. The authorities work to complement the instruments we have with information efforts in different ways. A big difference has been made by my colleague Minister of Consumer Affairs Bolund, who has strengthened the Swedish Consumer Agency's mission to make it easy to make climate and environmental smart choices in everyday life.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-737	Mr President, I would like to It is good that things are happening in Sweden and abroad to speed up the climate transition. The Paris Agreement, which requires us to strive to keep to one and a half degrees, is even more important when it has been shown that ecosystems react even faster than scientists expected. It is good that the Riksdag has adopted the climate policy framework with offensive climate targets – although we want to go a little further – a climate law and a climate policy council and so on. I agree that the low taxation of flights is unreasonable and that it is important that we work with the airline tax, much because it is actually a signal but also in order to be able to put the money that we get into rail. I think we need carrots now. Since we are in such an emergency and need to get citizens positive about climate change, the carrots are almost the most important thing. We must make all people open the door and feel: Yes, we will act! Then I think carrots might be more important than whips at this point in time to bring us the whole community of citizens. That is why I believe in building capacity on the railways and also in strengthening public transport considerably. After all, public transport is transport efficient. There are also the things about induced traffic that scientists are talking about, that is, the more road there is, the more cars there are on the roads. It is extremely important that, now that we look at the action plan, we strengthen the railways and, instead of expanding new roads, perhaps provide better incentives for expanding public transport. Public transport will be the most important key player in solving this. There will be a shortage of biofuels, and we may actually have too little minerals for electric cars to cover the entire fleet of cars. That's why we have to work on transport efficiency. And then public transport will be important. I think it will be necessary to work with higher accessibility, so that the surface coverage of public transport is better in the cities. Now you work a lot more towards core lines than I think is good. According to the research, surface coverage is also needed. You also have to work more with the price mechanisms, which has been very quiet about. It must be cheaper to travel by public transport and by rail, in order for us to have this strong steering effect – the carrots – towards the right. Now we see that climate change affects the Earth's ecosystems much stronger than scientists had expected. I would therefore like to ask the Minister, which I also asked about in the interpellation, whether the government is prepared to give priority to rail over road in the near future. Nevertheless, it is the fastest way to change at the moment, because we do not have the electric car in place. If we have to change in just a few years, we have to act as effectively as we can, if Trump releases more into the United States and we have not got the carbon binding agreements in place either. Getting the entire earth's coal budget together is quite complex at the moment. That is why I do not think it is wise to extend the roads at this stage. In a few years you may need to make some investments on the road network throughout Sweden, which may be good. But I think it is extremely important to expand the capacity of the railways in the near future. I would like to ask the Minister once again: is the government prepared to reconsider a little, given the reports that have come in the summer about the melting tundra and so on?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-749	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree that public transport is a crucial and essential part of climate change. We're going to switch to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. Then we must make the whole transport system more efficient. And public transport stands out, economically but also surface-wise. It is resource efficient and accessible to many. That is precisely why we have introduced the urban environment agreements, which finance public transport and cycle infrastructure. It is a hugely clear difference from previous governments. They have been completely passive in the question of financing public transport and have completely handed it over to the regional level. It has been a mistake, because it is a central part of social planning, from a climate perspective but also in terms of access to the labour market. The urban environment agreements are also sought after. We get good projects from municipalities and regions to strengthen the accessibility and capacity of public transport. It's incredibly important. The train system is national, and it is important both nationally and regionally, not least for regional commuting. The infrastructure bill put forward by the government and the planning directive that we have given to the Swedish Transport Administration is also clear: it is time for the train now. The train must be dependable. We have to invest in the rails that exist, so that it can be driven on – safely and punctually. But we also need new main routes in Sweden in order for the train to become a competitor to the aircraft. We have an important piece of work ahead of us now that we are going to develop a national infrastructure plan. It is important that we get decisions, for example on new main routes. But we must also be able to do something clearly about the poor maintenance of existing railways. Emma Wallrup also raised the issue of carrots. The government agrees that both the whip and the carrot are needed. A recent example is the premium for electric vehicles that the government will introduce. I think it has the potential to attract new groups to the cycle tracks. It is possible to transfer journeys from car to bicycle, not least around urban areas and cities, by having a clear premium and by focusing not only on cars and heavy vehicles but also on the slightly simpler but smart and new solutions that exist. They can be important puzzle pieces in an efficient and climate-smart transport system.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-756	Mr President, I would like to It is positive that the Minister wants to strengthen the railways in the next infrastructure plan. It feels like an important battle that we will have to have together. Both we here in Parliament and all around Sweden need to lie on. It's about the future of our children. The children's choir at the opening of Parliament sang to us that we must save the planet for their future. It's a very important mission we have. It would also be good if the government could instruct the Environmental Target Council to produce information that makes a more powerful contribution to action by citizens. I think we need to feel that this is a crisis situation and that we need to pull the emergency brake. But citizens also need to be safe and feel that we are acting together, are strong and secure in this; that the government takes hold of the situation and shows the citizens exactly what to do. I do not think it is enough for authorities to have slightly different plans in different places, which may have a percentage effect. It's an emergency. We have to hurry. If we are to be honest, it is really a situation where we should have carbon dioxide rationing, given the storms that are going on in the United States. Only what we've released now is catastrophic. We cannot continue to have this level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. It's just like that. We can't keep having this much storms and disasters. We need to get carbon dioxide off the atmosphere in the ground if we are to have a good future at all. That's where we are now. I therefore think that we should take a concerted approach and speak to the citizens, not stress the citizens but show hope: But we do it this way. ..................................................... In the '70s and '80s, you were wiser. Then there was various advice on how long to shower, that the lamp should be extinguished when you went out of a room and so on. Then there was a more collective view of society.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-761	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree that it is important that, while, in political leadership, we point to the seriousness of the climate issue, we act in a concerted manner and show the way forward. We will show that it is a transition that will be tough but possible if we act together. The environmental objectives work but not least the whole broad work on implementing the 2030 Agenda and the global sustainability goals is a good framework. There is a huge commitment from companies and associations where you can gather and discuss how we are going to do this and how we are going to do it together. It is also important that we implement the Environment Target Council's calls for the introduction of instruments that make it clear that polluter pays, i.e. that it costs more to make environmentally poor choices, so that the environment-smart choices are cheaper. But we will also make the investments needed to make climate-smart and sustainable alternatives available to many. A package of measures is needed. You should make it safe to walk and cycle in cities and urban areas. The trains are to be trusted. And the electric car is to be turned into a folk car, which it can actually be in the near future.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-765	Mr President, I would like to Then we move on to the burning political but perhaps a little more acidic issue of the regulatory framework for demands for cisterns. Ola Johansson has asked me how I feel about the fact that the government's solution now is not to require verification of the design and production of cisterns to be carried out by accredited control bodies and that the developer's self-monitoring during the construction phase is sufficient. The question of the control of cisterns has, as Ola Johansson points out, been raised earlier. It then had its origins in that requirements for cistern properties were regulated in two different authorities' regulations, Boverkets och Arbetsmiljöverkets. In 2013, Boverket incorporated European construction standards, so-called Eurocodes, into the construction framework. Eurocodes cover all types of structures and buildings, such as hospitals, high-rise buildings and arenas in addition to cisterns. According to the planning and construction legislation, PBL, the developer is responsible for ensuring that the design meets society's requirements by self-monitoring. Requirements for verification of some type of accredited control body, which Ola Johansson proposes, would require a change in the PBL. Boverket's assessment is that there is no evidence to justify such a change today. Moreover, having third-party control during production would entail costs. However, within the framework of PBL, Boverket is working to ensure maximum safety for all constructions. In the case of cisterns, they plan to present a new draft constitution setting out rules for them and how to verify the carrying capacity. The Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations on the use and control of pressurised devices enter into force on 1 December 2017. The regulations contain requirements for the verification of the tank in use. The regulations also include requirements for checking the cistern before pressing when a cistern is assembled with other devices. Finally, I would like to inform you that the committee directive for the ongoing investigation into a thorough review of Boverket's building regulations includes the task of reviewing the delimitation of authorisation between different authorities issuing regulations in the field of construction.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-770	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Peter Eriksson, for coming to the Chamber and delivering this answer! This is the second time that I have raised this very serious issue of the environment and safety in a debate like this. On 9 June 2015, I stood here and discussed the matter with your predecessor, Mehmet Kaplan, who then promised me that a solution was coming. Unfortunately, we can read from Peter Eriksson's reply that although things have happened, the ambiguity has increased. Instead of the double regulation that was promised to remedy, we now have a situation where no one is responsible for control other than externally. Boverket's responsibility does not extend beyond the purely building engineering – it is about the construction being able to withstand external influences from the weather and wind and from loads of snow and packed ice. It poses a great danger to the environment, to society and to human life and health when no authority anymore undertakes to carry out checks on the functioning of the tank itself – it is about safe storage of oils and chemicals in the container over a very long period of time. Mr President, I would like to The situation that will prevail after 1 December 2017, when the Swedish Work Environment Authority's control responsibilities cease and we instead of double regulation get limited control, leads to uncertainty that makes ndustrin hesitate to initiate such construction projects. The industry has now contacted me again to try to get you and me to understand that it is ultimately the government that is responsible if an accident occurs when cisterns start to leak, with the risk of discharges of toxic gases or pollution of drinking water or what happened in Gothenburg a few decades ago: a serious fire in the oil port. What has been ironed on the foot here is how the cistern is controlled during the construction itself and during the construction process. It is only at commissioning, after completion of the tank, that it is possible to know whether it meets the requirements. But then it is only the building technical requirements, those defined by the Eurocodes, that Peter Eriksson has mentioned. It is in this context that Peter Eriksson in his reply mentions changes in the PBL as the only solution. I mean, it's wrong. It is based on the notion that this is a purely building issue. Instead, the authorities that have had such a responsibility in the past and who, to some extent, waive that responsibility on 1 December should be able to enter and carry out checks for which we know they have the competence. There has also been a dialogue in which the Swedish Work Environment Authority has been involved, but it obviously has not continued. Has Peter Eriksson understood that the control of cisterns will be inadequate and that a new comprehensive regulatory framework is needed which complements the requirements for construction works with the support of Eurocodes or possibly that the Eurocodes are no longer available for this type of building without a different regulatory framework?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-777	Mr President, I would like to Ola Johansson! I think that this is basically a somewhat difficult issue, because it concerns a number of different regulatory frameworks. For some reason, there has been confusion about the demands for cisterns. Both the Swedish Work Environment Authority and Boverket have worked with their regulations to make it a clearer rule work where safety is high and it should not be a double regulation, but it has been a problem in that area. What needs to be considered now is: do we introduce changes to the Planning and Construction Act? One can be very doubtful about that, because it would mean a special solution precisely for cisterns to have third-party control in that way. And if we start having that, you might think that we should have it in other areas that are subject to the Planning and Construction Act. I do not think this is primarily a reasonable solution at present. If you think that the regulatory framework that we get from 1 December, when the new rules of the Swedish Work Environment Authority come into force, is not enough, perhaps it is reasonable to start by trying to produce a basis that shows that we have a problem with damage, occupational health or environmental damage, and that shows that we would need to have a sharper regulatory framework. After that, this review and the basis could be used to tighten the regulatory framework in other ways than through changes to the Planning and Construction Act in the first place.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-780	Mr President, I would like to What Boverket has promised to return to, in accordance with the Minister's reply, are new constitutional proposals. This also applies to the carrying capacity of the building, that is, how much snow can lie on top of it before it collapses? Does the building withstand wind without falling apart? Does it resist water coming from outside at a flood, or does it manage to get hit by a truck? The Minister also mentions in the reply control of pressurised devices. I just want to make it clear to everyone that that is not what the interpellation is about, but it is unpressurised cisterns. I reacted to something Peter Eriksson said. It is possible that this is the only way forward, but it would be terrible to imagine that we should first see if there are any accidents and the extent of these accidents before deciding that the controls need to be reintroduced. It is not something that I think center parties and environmentalists and people who are afraid of people's lives and health are satisfied with. Mr President, I would like to We can get back to housing policy a little bit. You have to apply for a new building permit if you want to convert an office space into housing. At the same time, a cistern, which is also a construction work, may have previously been filled with something relatively harmless. At the next stage, it can be used for highly corrosive acid or toxic chemicals without any prior check on whether that cistern is actually designed to withstand 40,000 tons of corrosive liquid. Apart from what you see outside the tank, what is to be measured in terms of bearing capacity, it is about couplings, ventilation and technical equipment that monitors and measures the filling rate. There is nothing in the Eurocodes that ensures that those things work even from the beginning or that they are designed to cope with another use. I can give an example of such use. We are going to switch to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet, and we are increasing the incorporation of ethanol into our fuels. This means that in cisterns where oils, petrol and diesel have previously been stored, highly flammable liquids such as ethanol should be stored. This is just one example. Now I know that there are other regulations that regulate that part. But it is an example of varying uses. I think it is very important that these structures can also handle other uses. A container may change owner, and the owner may want to use it for another purpose in the next stage. I am afraid that this is something that we lose with the bathing water when we no longer have this control. Finally, does Peter Eriksson therefore think that the control that exists and should be provided with Eurocodes will be sufficient for a construction work that will store such dangerous and environmentally harmful content as corrosive liquids and chemicals, or is Peter Eriksson prepared, after this debate with the industry, to start looking at other solutions for self-control?
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-788	Mr President, I would like to Now it is not only Boverket's regulations that regulate this. If it had been the only thing regulating the issue, I would have been more concerned. But now we have a number of other regulations that also regulate the cisterns, and in the Swedish Work Environment Authority's new regulation that comes in December there is still a third-party control for the control of the cistern when used. This is one area where the third party control requested by Ola Johansson remains. Boverket also works to develop new regulations for cisterns, which differentiate requirements according to size. The big ones have tougher demands than those that are smaller and perhaps less worrying from an environmental point of view. In addition to this, we also have the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's regulations, which also concern this type of facilities and construction works and which contain the types of tanks that are regulated, how the tanks should be controlled and how often. All in all, therefore, there are quite a lot of regulations to ensure that this works fundamentally, and I cannot say today that I feel very concerned about these issues. However, I agree that there is always a risk with this type of plant. It is very important to be careful about the requirements and that those responsible for taking care of this comply with the regulations, because there is a risk of harming both people and the environment if you mismanage it.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-792	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Peter Eriksson for coming to the House to discuss this issue. It may be considered a little technical and obscure, but it is extremely important from a safety and environmental point of view. One can always think about whether it is right to listen to the industry and put their concerns forward in a public debate like this. I think it is, given that the industry wants us to reintroduce some sort of control of the parts that we have discussed in the construction phase as well. The risk is that, in the event of commissioning, when the Swedish Work Environment Authority, the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness or some other authority goes in and makes checks, the Eurocodes that Boverket requires you to follow during construction are not sufficient and that you are forced to demolish the facility that you have built in the belief that it would work. It is precisely this fear that makes the industry want us to discuss it and come up with a solution. Why lower the requirements for addressing potentially hazardous activities when even industry does not want to do so and the industry also says that it is prepared to take an increased cost to ensure this? From 1 December, we will not have a comprehensive check on the construction and construction of tanks. If there is a way to remedy it quickly and before that, that would be good. I realize it's hard, because there's a little time left. I therefore appeal to Parliament and Peter Eriksson to take this discussion with them and to remedy the problems now so that, I was about to say, I could not continue to discuss this with him. We need to make such simplifications that we both produce more housing and a building throughout the country while ensuring the safety of society.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-797	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my introduction, we have an ongoing investigation that concerns the whole of Boverket's building regulations, and they also have the task of reviewing these issues. If they come to the conclusion that there are ambiguities or weaknesses in the system in this area, they have the opportunity to come up with proposals that will tighten up. So there is an opportunity here for the existing investigation that we have appointed not so long ago, so the questions are not entirely in the air. This is probably the state's biggest ongoing investigation, and this is an issue of a great many, but we also have qualified people dealing with it. If they come to the conclusion that changes are needed, they will propose them, and then I will look at it very carefully.
i-9tvoxbZfZPqzuhH4oqtFKR	Mr President, I would like to With reference to shortcomings in action and responsibility under the resulting security crisis, we are calling in accordance with Chapter 13. Section 4 of the Government form that the Riksdag shall declare that Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist does not have the confidence of the Riksdag. I will now file a motion from the Moderates.
i-6b21da18c1eb7dad-800	Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats intend to pursue our decision and our assessment that confidence in Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist is exhausted. I therefore agree with the Christian Democrats in the motion that Jessica Polfjärd has read out and want to declare that we will support it in the vote in this House.
i-GhJ4hvrHpividkJ9S44j8D	In accordance with Chapter 13, Section 4, of the Government form, we urge Parliament to declare that Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist does not have the confidence of the Riksdag.
