i-12a4820b40574b86-2	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has asked me how I and the government imagine that the new police training places will be filled and what I and the government intend to do about the problem that current universities are drawing police resources in the form of teachers from police activities without compensation. Roger Haddad has also asked what measures I and the government intend to take in view of the fact that, in his view, police training is becoming increasingly theoretical and practical, while at the same time the students are calling for more direct links with working life and reality. First of all, I can see that this government has doubled the number admitted to police training in relation to the previous government. In 2014, 689 students were admitted to police training, this year it is 1,398. The previous government had too few police officers trained, which is now causing problems. Therefore, in order to increase the number of police officers in line with the ambition of the current government, we will remain in higher education numbers for a long time to come. The agency is actively working to broaden recruitment and attract the right applicants to police training. However, work needs to be intensified. Therefore, on 20 July, the Government decided to commission the Police Authority to strengthen the supply of skills, including by increasing the capacity in the admission process in consultation with the Swedish Defence Agency and the Swedish Armed Forces. That part of the assignment shall be reported by 15 November 2017. If more police officers are to be trained, some police officers must also serve as teachers in education. Of course, the core activities lose out on human resources when police officers work as teachers and supervisors. At the same time, however, it enriches the organization, and valuable knowledge is transferred to future police officers. Major staff reinforcements for the Police Authority are also to be expected. In order to strengthen the core business, the Government has proposed a total addition of 7.1 billion in 2018 – 2020. In the spring 2017 amending budget, the government has also contributed SEK 700 million to the agency. Since police training is a commissioned education, it is the Police Authority that regulates the number of field weeks and the length of the aspirant period. The number of students has increased, and in order to increase quality and reduce pressure on core business, the number of field weeks from 2016 has changed from two to one. When it comes to practical aspects, such as shooting, self-protection and conflict management, the educational structure can vary between the three universities. This means that the practical lessons are carried out a little differently, but the content is the same, and the requirements on what to be able to do after the completion of the training have not been lowered. The government and the authorities have therefore already taken several measures in the area of skills provision. I will continue to follow closely the work of the Political Authority in this area.
i-12a4820b40574b86-8	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for the interpellation response. We have a situation in Sweden that is worrying. There are more and more people who experience insecurity in their daily lives, especially women who do not dare to go out in the evening in their own residential area, and the perceived insecurity is increasing. We also see continued problems with shootings and killings between criminal gangs in our most vulnerable areas. The background to this interpellation is also that we suffer from a police shortage and that Sweden is one of the countries in Europe with the lowest police density. In 2010, Sweden had 216 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants. By 2016, it had fallen to 200 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants. The average in Europe is over 300 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants. In Sweden, we now have fewer police officers and fewer police officers in external service during this government. I read in the Government's reply that money is being paid. Late this year, SEK 700 million was paid to the Police Authority. But then we should also know that the Police Authority already has a deficit of 500 – 600 million kronor. The total so-called initiative is therefore very marginal this year. The head of the Swedish police has even gone out and said that if he does not get money, he has to lay off 1 000 – 1 500 employees. It would exacerbate this security crisis and crisis that Sweden is in. We ask the government how to fill the training places based on the fact that each semester there are empty places in police training at the three universities that conduct police training. For example, at the start of 28 August 2017, there were 175 empty seats at the police colleges in the country. This is a serious development, and the number of empty seats is, unfortunately, increasing. That is why we paid particular attention to the government's statement that further police colleges should now be set up with additional places, even though today we are not able to keep police officers, stop police dropouts or, for that matter, fill the empty places at police colleges. Madam President, I would like I do not think that the Government is really answering my real question: how should we fill the seats that we already have today, and how does the Government intend to fill the new police training places that you have announced? You have said that you want 10,000 more employees in the police until 2024. It's not that long. In addition to the fact that we have major problems with police drop-outs, we do not fill the training places. Liberals have said that, in addition to reviewing the admission process to fill the existing places, we need to do more in terms of the working environment and wage reforms, so that we retain police officers but also attract back police officers who have left. When we had problems filling the empty places in teacher training, a number of important measures were implemented locally but not least nationally. We would like to see the corresponding national efforts also in the case of the police.
i-12a4820b40574b86-17	Madam President, I would like As far as the economy is concerned, we are shooting at 700 million this year, covering the deficit plus a little more. In addition, we are proposing 2 billion for next year, which is more money than the Police Authority itself would have wanted. They had wanted 1.6 billion, and they get 2 billion. So we are stepping this up by first 2 billion, by 2.3 billion the following year and by 2.8 billion by 2020. We are doing this in order to finance the expansion that we are now in the process of implementing. Madam President, I would like The most important thing now is how many police officers we can train. It is as usual with the opposition: You are quite good at speaking in opposition, but once you rule you never deliver anything. The problem we are currently facing in terms of police development is that you trained far too few during your government period. In my interpellation response, I say that in 2014, your last year, 689 police students were adopted. Then you should know that last year 450 retired. If you have such a small margin that you train 689 and it is a normal year 450 who retires, you end up in a situation where you risk reducing the number. That is why we have now increased the number of people admitted to education. We've doubled them. Roger Haddad talks about empty spaces, but the important thing is how many people attend education. 1 398 was accepted. Some of them were admitted to other educations as well. But those who actually started and attended police training this year are 1 304. It's a doubling compared to what it was like in your time. In order to do this and carry out the expansion that we are in the process of, as I have said, we must remain at rather high levels year by year. We need to train more, and we need to start more police training places. In fact, I think that will mean that we will have even more applicants. Now there are more than ever who apply to the police – we have more than ten applicants per place – but by starting police training in more locations we will also have room for more people who apply for the profession. This is why we start in Malmö, and we also start in West Sweden. While we are doing so, we need to have a strategy to keep more people in the corps. That is why we have given a special mandate to the Police Authority to improve working conditions, working conditions and the working environment in such a way as to become a better employer. The time has passed when one from the state could think that if we have trained a police officer well, he will remain here for the rest of his life. This is no longer the case, but it is quite attractive to be a police officer and have that education. It is attractive in the labour market, not only for the state but also for others – private – employers. The state must therefore understand that we are competing in the private labour market in a way that we may not have done in the past, and that is why we need to improve working conditions. Now you get money for this, and you get a special assignment. It will report to me in January how the work has gone. Finally, recruitment must also be reinstated. Those who have left the police profession, we must take back. There has just been a campaign between the Police Authority and the police federations to this end, and more than 150 calls for expressions of interest have already been received. It is people who would like to come back to the police profession again, and that is of course very gratifying.
i-12a4820b40574b86-24	Madam President, I would like Under Morgan Johansson, Sweden has fewer police officers in external service. During your time as head of the Justice Department, we have fewer police officers, Morgan Johansson. In 2010 and 2014 we had over 20,000 police officers in Sweden, and now we have 19,300 police officers plus 300 aspirants. You can't be proud of that, Minister. Besides, don't tell me we didn't train cops! We made a huge effort in 2006–2011 with plus 3,000 police officers. It was during our time that we built up the police. In addition, it was referred to that in 2014 we only brought in 689– yes, there are more than the 610 you brought in in 2015 when you were in charge at the Ministry of Justice, Morgan Johansson. Then you can point to 2016, when you brought in 771 police students. But in 2012 we brought in 811 police students. Sure, we can do this, but that's not the problem. You've been saving up Swedish police for three years. As late as last summer, 2016, I had a debate with the then Minister of the Interior Anders Ygeman who said that the Swedish police do not need more resources. At the same time, the Prime Minister said that Sweden does not suffer from a police crisis. Well, we're suffering from a police crisis. We're suffering from a security crisis. We suffer from people experiencing insecurity in society. This development has taken place during your time as head of the Ministry of Justice, Morgan Johansson. What the government doesn't want to talk about is that we have empty seats at the Police College. How do you deal with this? Well, through classical social democratic education policy – it lowers demands and maximizes the number of seats. You've reduced the talent requirements for admission to police training. You've removed the lockdown times. You have removed the requirement for a B driving licence at the time of admission. That is your strategy. Madam President, I would like The second problem is that you are not giving the Recruiting Authority money when it comes to police students, Morgan Johansson. That's an extra 15 million for the next three years. I do not see any corresponding short-term efforts here to actually increase the Recruiting Authority's capacity. If you have that particular venture, I want you to point it out, Minister. When it comes to resources for the police, in our budget proposals for 2018 – 2020 we will present the largest budget for both the Swedish police and the Swedish judiciary of all parties in the Swedish parliament. I am proud of that, but the most important thing is that we already this year had, among other things, an extra investment in the police that you did not have in the beginning. We are already spending 1.3 billion on wage reform next year to take back the hundreds of police officers who have stopped. I would also like to know how much you will spend on police salaries in next year's budget, Morgan Johansson. It is clear that recruitment and the attractiveness of the police profession – all these factors – are linked. This is where the government and Minister Morgan Johansson cannot escape. We definitely went for more cops. We raised the police budget and the judiciary budget every year when we were in the government. We raised and increased the number of police officers and were up to 20,400 police officers. During your government and your department, Morgan Johansson – when we have more residents, the biggest migration reception in many years and also an increased threat of terror and more particularly vulnerable areas – we have fewer police officers. How can the Government be satisfied with this development?
i-12a4820b40574b86-32	Madam President, I would like It would, of course, have made it easier if you had had an educational pace that was properly dimensioned, Roger Haddad, but you did not. You brought in between 600 and 700 police officers every year during your time, and it takes two and a half years to train a police officer. Bringing in 600 – 700 each year and 400 – 500 simultaneously retire each year is only a sign that it has not realised what this government has realised, namely that the state is now also in a labour market where we have to compete with the private. Then it is important that we become such a good employer that we manage to keep the police that exist. We also need to educate so many that we can then meet the needs that exist. You're talking about empty seats, Roger Haddad. The problem is this: if you have very few seats, fill them and then expand– doubles– but have some places that you do not fill, the point is still that we educate many more during our time than you did. We've doubled the rate of education. Then you talk about money. We never said the police didn't need any more money. What we have said is that we must finance all the efforts as well. A concern we had when we took over 2014 is a tt you drove Sweden with 60 billion in deficit. That means that, as it were, you borrowed for your tax cuts and expenses, and that meant that in the first few years we actually had to have a rather tight fiscal policy. We had to hold back quite a lot on the investments we might have really wanted to make – to cover the budget deficit that Anders Borg, Fredrik Reinfeldt and your government left behind. Now we have money in the treasury – plenty of money – and we are setting our priorities. One of the priorities that has been most important to us is to strengthen the Swedish police. The EUR 2 billion we are now entering for next year is the largest single investment that has ever been made – at least during the period I can review, and I have been sitting in this House for almost 20 years. There has never been a greater effort on Swedish police from one year to another than what we are doing now with these 2 billion. There are some things that an alliance government never does. You will never be able to manage public finances; there is always a deficit after you. You will never be able to do the jobs; it is always higher unemployment. You never open any new police trainings either; on the contrary, you have closed one. You closed one in Stockholm in the '90s. You shut down police training for three years, and when we got back in the late 90's, we reopened it. We also opened one in Umeå and one in Växjö, which now works very well. Now we go on and open one in Malmö and one in West Sweden. By doing so, we are also broadening the recruitment base. We'll have more students. When it comes to Malmö, we have said that we want to get the education started as early as spring 2019. This means that young people can apply for police training as early as spring 2018, since they will take the tests in autumn 2018. In this way, then, we make sure that we gradually extend the suit, but we do so not with borrowed money but with our own money. We also do so in such a way that the organization can handle it. My basic question to you, Roger Haddad, is: if you wanted the number of police officers to increase, why did you train so few? That is the question for Roger Haddad today.
i-12a4820b40574b86-40	Madam President, I would like We trained more police officers when we took office in 2006, but the government doesn't want to bring this in. We're the ones who passed 20,400 cops. You've never reached those levels, Morgan Johansson. You can call or e-mail me when you reach 20,400 employees of police, not civilians, in the Police Department. During your time, Morgan Johansson, we have fewer police officers in Sweden and fewer police officers in external service, while criminals take over our vulnerable areas. I wouldn't be proud of that. In each of the years 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 we brought in more police students than you did in the year you refer to – in 2015, when you were a minister, you took in 610 students. But in 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011 we brought in more police students – 670, 811, 664 and 689 were the number of each year. However, that is not the essence of this debate. During your reign, you have put the Swedish police on starvation therapy for three years. Only now have you woken up and want to make so-called bets. Now you realize that the number of students should be increased. Why didn't you do it in 2015? Why didn't you do it in 2016? Why are you doing it now, one year before the election? Why do all these billions – 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 billion – come one year before the elections? They would have been needed a year or two ago. The number of employees at the police department who quit is bigger now, under your government, than when we were in the government. Almost 1,000 police officers quit every year. The number of employees at the Police Authority who quit today is higher than the number newly appointed. In parallel, we have empty seats in police training. You, Morgan Johansson, have not yet answered how to fill the existing places and how to keep and attract police officers back through a wage reform.
i-12a4820b40574b86-46	Madam President, I would like You trained between 600 and 700 police officers a year. We're training between 1,300 and 1,400 this year. That's twice as many. These are basic facts. You pulled numbers from your period, but you never get up in the number, 1 304, which today goes to police training- never! There have never been so many who have attended Swedish police training as right now. The difference is both the number we have now made to start training and the fact that we are paying for them. You did not, but you handled the public finances in such a way that you went with large deficits. I asked you, Roger Haddad, why you trained so few police officers if you want the number of police officers to increase. I haven't got a real answer. You also know that 450 police officers retire every year. You can also see that 600 - 700 are far too few. But when it comes to the question of why you did not increase the number, in order to be able to face, among other things, the retirements that we now have, the answer is simply that you gave other priority. During your eight years, you increased your resources to the police by a total of over SEK 5 billion – 5.4 billion I think it was. This happened for eight years. Now we spend from one year to another on 2 billion. In your eight years, you spent a total of 5 billion more on an annual basis. In the same eight years, you reduced the tax by 140 billion. It's just to count-- that's 25 to 30 times as much as you'd rather put on tax cuts than on the police. Besides, you borrowed half of that money. If you do this and do not make it a priority for the police – when it takes two and a half years to train a police officer and you have big retirements ahead of you – it will of course be up to the future government to try to correct it.
i-12a4820b40574b86-52	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce the processing times for import authorisations to an acceptable level. Two years ago, the Swedish Police Authority was commissioned by the government to develop its work on weapons permits and has since implemented a number of measures. Among other things, certain types of arms cases have been concentrated in specific units within the Police Authority in order to make their handling more uniform and to speed up its implementation. This has meant, for example, that the handling of entry cases has been concentrated in the Arlanda Group on the legal unit in Stockholm. The measures taken as a result of the government mission have also made the form used to apply for an authorisation for the introduction of arms digitised today, as false applications were identified as a reason for lengthy processing times. Some of the measures taken have had an immediate effect, while others are expected to have measurable effects over a few years. For example, I note that the actual processing time for entry cases has decreased from 13 days in 2015 to 9 days today. If you expect with the time that the Police Authority is waiting for the applicant to pay the application fee, the processing time is currently 25 days, which it has also been in recent years. The Agency has the task of annually reporting statistics on the processing times to the Government. I will continue to monitor developments, as well as the ongoing work of the Political Authority to develop the handling of weapons permits.
i-12a4820b40574b86-57	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The reason for this interpellation is that Sweden's demand for an entry permit for legal weapons poses a problem. This poses a major problem both for organisers of shooting competitions with participants from other EU countries as well as for hunters who want to visit Sweden at short notice without having to plan months in advance. In his reply, the Minister writes that the Police Authority has developed its work on weapons permits, that a number of measures have been implemented, that the administration is more uniform and that it is implemented more quickly. Of course, it is a question of interpretation what is uniform and faster: A recent review of the processing times for arms licences shows that in Stockholm it takes 8 – 10 weeks, in Bergslagen 8 weeks, in the Region my 4 weeks and in the South 6 weeks. These are still fairly long processing times, I think. I have not found any record available to the general public of the waiting periods for import authorisations, so I will not question the Minister's information that the time has been shortened. On the other hand, I would like to question the need for a special admission permit for EU citizens who have EU firearms passports and permits in their respective countries. The EU Arms Passport was introduced by a directive in 1991, and Sweden implemented it at EU entry in 1995. Swedish shooters who want to take with them the weapons for which they have a licence in Sweden can take them to competitions in other EU countries with the help of the EU Arms Passport without any problems or extra bureaucracy. The same applies to Swedish hunters. However, the police authorities still 22 years later refuse to accept the EU Arms Passport for foreign legal gun owners who want to come and compete or hunt in Sweden. An already heavily strained police authority is thus given another task to solve. I assume the Minister shares my view that the police are more strained than ever and should be relieved of all pointless tasks. If there are common EU rules, just follow them and refrain from the temptation to impose Swedish bureaucratic special rules. Then we can ask ourselves what it is that the police check before an import permit is issued. There is no real justification for the requirement for an entry permit.
i-12a4820b40574b86-65	Madam President, I would like My view is that we must have control of the weapons in Sweden. We must combat illegal weapons, and we must also have control of the legal weapons, so that they do not get off the ground or fall into the wrong hands. The basic problem with the question raised by Boriana Åberg is that, even long after they have entered the Union, some countries have too little control over their weapons and too little control over who is allowed to buy arms. This means that we cannot fully rely on the EU arms passport. For example, there are several countries where there is no need for authorisation to buy a shotgun. You don't do background checks on the guy who buys a shotgun. If we had not had this introduction control, it would mean that one could travel freely into Sweden with such a weapon. It's just one example. Boriana Åberg says that the Police Authority, now 22 years after, refuses to do this. Yeah, it's even worse than that, Boriana Åberg. Since joining the European Union, all governments have stuck to this regulation. That's what our government did in the late '90s. That made your government in 2006 to 2014. They didn't change anything in this. At the time, the same assessment was made as I do now, namely that we need to have that control. We have had various forms of import controls on weapons. It was not something that started when we joined the European Union, but we have had it for about a hundred years, precisely because we want that opportunity. Boriana Åberg raises the question of the length of proceedings. The processing times have been reduced, both for arms cases in general and just inserting the conditions of entry. The entry permits are now concentrated in the police at Arlanda Airport, among other things to relieve the South Region, which previously had very many of these cases. What distinguishes this government from the former is that for the first time we are providing statistics on processing times. The old government never produced any aggregate statistics on how long it takes to get an arms case handled, either in general terms or in terms of import permits. We have now. As regards the import permits, Boriana Åberg said that it is a question of interpretation whether processing times have decreased or not. No, actually, it's not. We now have those statistics, and it shows that processing times for import permits have decreased from 13 days 2015 to 11 days 2016 and to 9 days so far this year. The police authority has thus allocated the resources needed to shorten the processing times. This is facilitated by the fact that not primarily police officers need to carry out the checks, but to a large extent civil servants instead. The problem of long processing times does not primarily depend on the authority, but it is because it takes some time for those who have applied to pay for their permission. This means that the total processing time is about 25 days, but the last part there is simply because the applicants do not pay faster. So we must be in control. The basic problem is that some countries have too little control over who holds arms.
i-12a4820b40574b86-75	Madam President, I would like The problem is, and always has been, that you believe you are fighting illegal weapons by making it more difficult for legal gun owners. It is true that some countries have lower standards as to who owns arms. In these countries, however, illegal weapons are much more widespread than legal ones. I originally come from such a country. Unfortunately, I do not have time in this interpellation debate to tell you about all my experiences. However, citizens from Finland, Norway and Denmark do not need an entry permit, and it works well. With the limited resources available to the police, I think it is best to fight the illegal weapons and not the legal ones. 中 Active measures are needed to reduce the number of illegal weapons and put an end to the shootings. A common misconception is that it is stolen hunting weapons, weapons used for sporting purposes or the Swedish military's armory used. It's not like that. Most of the weapons that flourish in criminal circles are old army weapons that originate in the Balkans. ..................................................... This is a statement which I support and which I would ask the Minister to guess where it comes from in his next speech. I would also like an answer to the question: how many crimes have been committed in Sweden by owners of legal weapons? I think it's a disappearing little part. The big problem is all smuggled weapons. A concern is also the lack of resources, which prevents customs from carrying out proper controls. Among other things, customs should give priority to arms smuggling and be able to check identity documents for persons charged for customs control. There is also another aspect. The recognition of the Swedish passport for EU weapons is likely to have a very positive impact on hunting tourism, which in turn will create much-needed jobs and revenues in rural areas. With regard to statistics, for which the Minister commends himself, it has not always been fair. For example, in March the Police Authority reported a decrease in the number of weeks it takes to obtain a gun license, but then it turned out that the statistics were made on incorrect grounds. They had been arbitrarily picked from different areas and counted in a way that would be questionable in all other contexts. But that is not the question. The question is whether it is justified for a heavily strained organisation, as the police are, to use resources to prevent, for example, the German national team in competition shooting to come here to Sweden and get their permits on time or if you are going to invest resources on what is the problem, namely all the illegal weapons that float everywhere, not least in our part of the country, around Malmö.
i-12a4820b40574b86-82	Madam President, I would like If the German national team is going to come to Sweden and compete, they have reasonably more than nine days ahead, on which the admission permit period is now. A little more planning, I think, that national teams of that nature have, so that it doesn't have to be a concern. To say that we're stopping them by having to seek permission here feels tricky. Boriana Åberg says that the statistics are not always accurate in all parts. No, sometimes it is difficult to compile statistics. But it is still better to have statistics, as we have now, than to have no statistics at all. The old government never even bothered to compile any statistics on the processing times. We now have this from 2015, so that we can follow the processing times year-on-year and almost month-by-month. That is why I can say that so far this year, 2017, the processing time is 9 days, and it has, as I said, fallen from 13 days in 2015. No, Boriana Åberg, I have no different opinion from you as to what crimes are committed with different weapons. The general picture is that it is often illegal weapons that have flown around Europe since the Balkan wars. That's how it is. Many weapons are 30 - 40 years old and perhaps even older than that. Of course, these weapons must be removed from the streets, and those who use them must, of course, be caged. That is why, just recently, one or two weeks ago, we went to Parliament with a bill to tighten the penalty for the serious weapons crimes. We are doubling the minimum sentence from one to two years in prison, which also means a presumption of detention, i.e. if you are suspected of serious weapons offences, you will be detained pending trial. In this way, I think we'll get some of the most criminally active individuals away. I believe that an extended sentence but also the presumption of detention will have an effect, plus that the police will have access to secret coercive measures and, for example, the possibility of wiretaps and telephone surveillance, which may have to be used to get away from some of those who are now active in gang criminal circles, among other things. I don't think we're parting here at all. We need to fight illegal weapons, as I said, but we also need to have control of the legal weapons. We cannot be too naive here. We have an exception for Finland, Norway and Denmark, and that is because we trust their system. However, since there are countries where, for example, there is no need for authorisation to buy shotguns, we need to have some form of control into Sweden. This applies as long as it is not the standard in all countries that we believe is needed. I do not want a situation in which criminals can take advantage of the fact that we have reduced our guard, because then we will have trouble in this part too. Let me also say a few words about customs. Customs plays an important role in detecting drugs and other things that cannot be smuggled in, including, of course, weapons. Customs has been reinforced and now has special dogs that can look for weapons. You increase your seizures and do a very good job. Customs will also receive more money from the government from next year, so we really invest in customs.
i-12a4820b40574b86-89	Madam President, I would like I welcome all the punitive measures for the use of illegal weapons. It was last year that parts of the German national team in rifle shooting were not allowed into Sweden. According to the Minister, the waiting period was eleven days, but something must have gone wrong. The quote I used in my last speech came from the Minister himself. I can quote more: a weapon of legal origin is very rare in criminal contexts. It is therefore important to target the fight against illegal weapons. Surprisingly enough, the focus has rarely been on the illegal weapons and their use, but on the legal weapons. ..................................................... I cannot agree more with that, and I hope that the Minister will continue to see that there are two tracks. One is a fierce and merciless fight against illegal weapons, shootings and anyone who commits crimes. The second track is about the people who do nothing but comply with the law. Our legal arms owners are the most law-abiding group in Sweden, and they should be treated in a positive way. I also hope that the Minister will show that words and actions go hand in hand and that, now that he has the opportunity and the power, he can consider taking an initiative with regard to the EU Arms Passport and Sweden's recognition of it. I also hope that the Minister will establish contact with the sporting organisations and the Hunters' Association. That's where he can get a good record.
i-12a4820b40574b86-95	Madam President, I would like I recognize the quotes and believe that in my previous post I used exactly the same way of reasoning. It is the illegal weapons that are at the root of the problem, and we must vigorously fight back against their use and try to get them off the street. This is done, among other things, through the new legislation that will enter into force on 1 January 2018. So there are no differences of opinion here. Beyond that, we must have control of the legal weapons so that they do not come into the wrong hands. I have no reason whatsoever to make it more difficult for legal weapons users, which we do not, on the contrary. Now that we are giving resources to the police organization so that we can pressure the administration of arms cases by hiring more police personnel, especially civilian workers, we are improving the situation of legal weapons users. This applies to both Swedish arms owners and those who want to travel to Sweden to compete, for example. That is why I presented the figures, which show that these statistics are also falling. I am not prepared to take any more initiatives. I make the same assessment that all governments, regardless of colour, have done for a long time. As long as we cannot rely fully on the control that exists in some EU countries, we must have this kind of control. I am therefore not prepared to let this go freely.
i-12a4820b40574b86-98	Madam President, I would like Helena Lindahl has asked me, among other things, what I and the government will do to ensure that the inhabitants of northern Sweden and Västerbotten are guaranteed the same security as the residents of the rest of the country and what I intend to do to ensure that the development of the new police organisation and its purpose with increased local police presence will strengthen security throughout the country. She has also asked if I have continued to trust the chief of police. Sweden should be a safe country to live in. It requires a strong judicial system and an accessible police officer. On 1 January 2015, the Police Authority was transformed into a unified authority following a decision by a unanimous parliament. One of the starting points of the new Police Authority is a police closer to the citizens. This means that local work should be the basis of the agency's activities, with increased presence and accessibility based on local conditions and needs. The political authority's broad mandate often involves difficult balances in terms of resource allocation between different urgent tasks and geographical areas. Nevertheless, it is important that the police authorities live up to their commitments throughout the country. The government has taken several measures to improve the conditions for the police. The Government believes, among other things, that significantly more police workers, both police and civilian, are needed to strengthen and develop police activities. Therefore, the government has proposed historically large additions of resources to the Police Authority for the next three years. The Government has previously given the Police Authority the opportunity to increase the number of places in current police training and also plans for police training at two additional universities. It's starting to produce results. This year, almost twice as many students have been admitted to police training as the average over the past six years. The Government has also commissioned the Police Authority to create the conditions for further improvements in the working environment and more career paths for police employees. Based on the new financial framework and the needs of the operations, it is the Police Authority that decides how resources are to be allocated internally within the organisation and what measures need to be taken to fulfil the tasks and objectives of the agency. Of course, it is obvious that the police should be present throughout the country. The financial contribution announced and the increase in the rate of education provide the basis for this. Crime prevention is also important. The Government's crime prevention programme, Together against crime, is aimed at a broad target group, which is a prerequisite for successful crime prevention work at the local level. The reorganisation of the Swedish police is one of the most extensive organisational changes within the state in many years. Experience from previous government reforms shows that implementation is often more complex and takes longer than anticipated. Leading Sweden's largest authority in these circumstances is a complex task. I have continued to trust the chief of police in carrying out this difficult task.
i-12a4820b40574b86-108	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. If you are assaulted, robbed or subjected to another serious crime, you want to feel that society stands up with fairly short police resources. That is why we pay taxes, among other things. Unfortunately, it does not really look like that everywhere in the Sweden of the Social Democrats. In Västerbotten's inland, more specifically in Vilhelmina, Storuman, Sorsele, Åsele, Dorotea and Lycksele, there are 30,000 people. The geographical area on which they live corresponds almost to the size of Denmark. Even so, they are forced to share a police patrol in the evenings and nights. It should also be made clear that there are some 20 miles between some of these places, which means that it may take a long time for the police to reach out if something happens. This summer the trader in Klimpfjäll had a break-in and lost 200 000 SEK. It took just over ten hours for the police to get there. At that time you can actually drive from Stockholm to Klimpfjäll, if you want to. There are of course many similar cases, not only in Västerbotten but in the whole of northern Sweden. It is clear to me that the reorganisation of the police has failed. Unfortunately, it is the people of southern Lapland, among other things, who have to take the consequences of this. The fact that there are major visible problems with the reorganisation of the police is not something new. The Minister's representative, Anders Ygeman, has also received criticism for this. Unfortunately, I do not see the government making a very big effort to address the problems at present. National Police Commissioner Dan Eliasson has been given free rein to continue to ignore the countryside, despite major complaints. People in southern Lapland are involved in funding the police but are barely allowed to take part in it. That is unacceptable, and it is evident that I am not the only one who thinks so. I have brought a petition to the Minister, which has been made at short notice and resources that are really non-existent. Yet it shows the dissatisfaction and concern that has emerged in Västerbotten's interior. One of many signatories sums it up like this: A human life should have the same value no matter where in the country we have chosen to settle, and we are all involved in paying the tax that is involved in funding the Police Authority.
i-12a4820b40574b86-115	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that the police should be present throughout the country. For this to work, we need more police employees. One problem that we are facing right now with regard to the police is that since the previous government trained so few and many police officers simultaneously retire, there is a tendency to decrease the number. The equation doesn't make sense. It takes two and a half years to train a cop. In 2014, the last government brought in 689 police students, and last year 450 police officers retired. It is understood that it is far too low: 600 – 700 are trained, but at the same time 450 are retiring. We have another labour market now, which means that also private actors and employers are happy to tangle in our police. It is also attractive in a private labour market to have police training, in a way that it may not have been before. We can go back 20 - 30 years when we may have expected that if we only trained one police officer, this would remain in the profession for life. It is no longer certain that this is the case. It is much more mobile, and we have a different private labour market than before. That is why we cannot have as low educational numbers as the old government had. That is precisely why we have now increased the rate of police training; we have doubled it. This year we bring in 1,398 police students. Some of them have gone to other training courses, so those who actually attend police training are currently 1 304. It is therefore a doubling of the number trained. We need to increase the rate of training in order to be able to cope with recruitment issues across the country, both in the north and the south. We also need to ensure that we keep the police we have. Then we're there again. We know that the state is competing in a labour market with other private employers. We must make sure that we become an even better employer, one that makes us want to stay in the profession. That is why we have commissioned the Police Authority to improve working conditions and the working environment. They will report back to me on this in January. We are also adding resources to the police: 2 billion from next year. They had wanted 1.6 billion, and they get 2 billion. They thus receive more than they had requested from the state. We need to do this. To cope with, among other things, inner Norrland but also other places in the country, we need to educate more people, keep those we have but also re-recruit those who may have left the profession and gone to another employer. We want them back. Now there has been a campaign with the Polisförbundet to this end, and there are already more than 150 calls of interest from police officers who want to take the step back into the police organization, perhaps because they now see that the state powers are acting and that this is an issue that we are prioritising very high and where we will continue to ensure that there are more resources. There will be 10,000 more police employees by 2024, both civilians and police officers. That is why we are taking these measures. Everyone in Sweden, regardless of where you live, has the right to the security it means to know that there is a strong police organisation at the bottom. That's why we're expanding now.
i-12a4820b40574b86-123	Madam President, I would like It's great that the government is sending money to the police department. It's necessary. I'm sorry it's a little late. It is almost with the knife to the throat that the government acts. Morgan Johansson says that there are many who retire and that an unusual number of people attend the training, but what he does not mention is that many choose to stop being a police officer because they cannot cope with the work situation they have today because the reorganisation has failed. I find this remarkable. Moreover, the government does not spend any money whatsoever in a wage pool that the parties can negotiate. Cops have very low pay. They have quite a long education and a vulnerable job, and yet they have an extremely low salary. If you're going to attract more people to become police officers, I think it's time to raise wages. I would like to quote something that Morgan Johansson recognizes from the letter of regulation: a reduction in crime and an increase in people's security. By carrying out its tasks, the Police Authority shall contribute to such development throughout the country. This is what the Government and Morgan Johansson have sent to the Police Authority about police operations in 2017. It's your instruction to the police department, Morgan Johansson, on how to prioritise the agency. Please note that the entire country acclaims! Of course, this concept includes Vilhelmina, Dorotea, Sorsele, Åsele, Lycksele and Storuman. My view is that it does not increase people's security in these municipalities by reducing the number of police officers, because that is exactly what has happened. What happens on the day, Morgan Johansson, a woman gets a kitchen knife in the belly of her drunk and aggressive cohabiting and the nearest police patrol is 200 miles away? This can be the harsh reality in Sweden, also in southern Lapland. Then fine words are not enough in a letter of regulation that is completely uncoverable in the reality in which the Västerbottens are unfortunately forced to live. It has now been over a month since I publicly addressed the problem of police staffing in Västerbotten's interior. You and the other Social Democrats have not said a single word to calm people's concerns. You have referred to the crowns and crowns that you bet, but let us be honest, Morgan Johansson! The number of police officers in the country has increased numerically for some time, but not in southern Lapland. In fact, it has declined there. They have here and now a single police car on day-to-day nights and nights – in this huge area. Despite the fact that the total number of police officers has increased in the country, there is no more staffing in this part, and that brings us back to the police's priorities, over which you decide through the regulatory letter. Southern Lapland is clearly a priority, as there is less police staffing in spite of more police officers in the country as a whole. That's why I've taken the liberty of buying the minister a little present on behalf of the Westerners, in order for you to remember what you wrote in your own security regulation letter across the country. You're welcome! I really hope this t-shirt will fit.
i-12a4820b40574b86-130	Madam President, I would like The basic problem, however, is what I raised in my first speech, that is, if there are to be more police officers, you have to train more. Then one must give priority to this when ruling. It is not enough to prioritise it only when you are in opposition, Helena Lindahl, but you have to do it also when you rule. It is not good enough that, year after year, as it was during your reign, there should be a training rate of 600 to 700 police officers when more than 450 simultaneously retire. You can't do that. You have a way too low a level. Filling a manned police car around the clock, because that's what we're talking about – a round the clock police force – sounds like a pretty small effort, but it's actually not because they're on shift duty. You have to make sure they're in place all the time. It takes about 20 cops. A police car manned 24 hours a day requires 20 police officers. To be able to expand this to better guard, there simply needs to be more police officers. Helena Lindahl says: We will not get any more. But it remains to be seen. What we're doing now is training more people. Just now, 1 304 people are in training, and we are saying that we will increase the number of employees in the police organization by 10,000 to 2024. This effort will benefit the whole country and increase security everywhere. When we write as we do in our letter of regulation, it is precisely to signal that no matter where you live in the country you must have access to that security. Southern Lapland is in no way forgotten or not a priority. On the contrary, we are very clear in the letter of regulation, which you have just indicated yourself, that this must work throughout the country. As I said, when you decide to expand the organisation, you must be prepared to give priority to the resources that are needed. You didn't do it during your reign. In total, you increased police spending by a little over 5 billion in eight years. That's it. And so you lowered the tax by 140 billion. It shows that you did not give priority to the police and the judiciary during that time. At the same time, you had a far too low rate of education, with which we are now having problems, and it shows that every time you choose between reduced taxes and more police officers, you choose reduced taxes. It's politics, too. Helena Lindahl says that the reorganisation has failed. No, I mean that's wrong. For the first time since 2009, we are now seeing how the number of reported cases from the police to prosecutors – it is an efficiency measure and shows how many investigations are being made – is increasing, and I think that is a sign that the reorganisation that we have now been in is actually starting to get under way. The biggest increase in prosecution cases is in drug offences, but it is also increasing in traffic offences, vandalism, fraud and some of the serious violent crimes, including the number of rapes investigated. In fact, the North region is one of the regions where it is seen to increase most according to the statistics. Survey results one in the North region have increased by 4 per cent so far this year compared to the previous year. In addition, I can say that according to Statskontoret's assessment, the average call-out time in Region n words has decreased from 2015 to 2016. My picture is probably – and I'm travelling quite a lot in the police organization now – that the reorganisation is now starting to sit down.
i-12a4820b40574b86-141	Madam President, I would like I don't think Morgan Johansson should dribble away the cards and start talking about what the alliance government did and didn't do. You have been a minister for three years, Morgan Johansson; this responsibility is on your table. You're saying Southern Lapland isn't forgotten. Hey! That's not what the police in the field say. There are many people who have contacted me, and I must say that I believe more in the police who work in practice than in your political experts who have drawn figures from some kind of statistics. In my interpellation, I asked the question whether the Minister has confidence that Chief Police Officer Dan Eliasson takes responsibility for security throughout the country. From the Minister's answer to me, it seems he does. That makes me a little bit of a question, because if so, you and I have differences of opinion as to what security in the whole country means. I think you can expect the police to come within a reasonable time when you are the victim of a crime even if you live in Sorsele.
i-12a4820b40574b86-144	Madam President, I would like It is not enough to talk about this when you are in opposition, Helena Lindahl. You also have to deliver when you rule, otherwise it doesn't work. That doesn't make any sense. I note that during your time in government, you gave a much higher priority to tax cuts than the police. 140 billion in tax cuts and 5 billion to the police. It speaks clearly. Just from this year to next year, we are increasing the budget of the police by 2 billion, which is the biggest increase in at least the 20 years I have been in this House. We've never invested more from one year to another in the police organization than we do now. You have to make sure that you not only talk in the opposition but also act when you are in government. Let's do that now. That's why we're expanding police training. We'll double the number that goes to the training. We ensure that we give a special mandate to the Police Authority to improve working conditions so that we can keep those in the organisation. We also recruit police officers who have left the organization and may have gone to private employers. That's how you have to work. But to be able to do so, you also have to be prepared to set aside money. This applies throughout the country. No matter where you live, you should be able to feel the security that it means to have a strong police organization in your back. But if, for many years, you have not been able to train enough people, it is clear that you have a problem. That is exactly what we are about to turn around. Finally, on the issue of the chief of police, I shall say that this is also some sort of bourgeois rhetoric. You are so very easy to get caught up in personal affairs and attack officials. There are other Directors-General whom you have also gone after. I would ask you to consider what kind of rhetoric we are going to have here. We Social Democrats never attack Directors-General when you rule, and I think you should take the same approach.
i-12a4820b40574b86-151	Madam President, I would like Erik Ottoson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that a false alarm with VMA, an important message to the public, will never again be able to go out, what measures I intend to take to ensure the functioning of the VMA facility, what measures I intend to take to ensure that important websites and telephone exchanges of state authorities are able to cope with the pressure in a crisis situation of both a greater and a minor nature, and what measures I intend to take to ensure that information goes out quickly and effectively to the public when technical errors, like those that occurred on 9 July 2017, occur. VMA is an essential condition for alerting, informing and protecting the public in the event of accidents and serious incidents both in peacetime and during increased preparedness. The public must always be able to trust and have great confidence in the system. Therefore, I and the government are very serious about the wrong VMA alarm in Stockholm on 9 July 2017. On 13 July 2017, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Civil Protection Agency (MSB) to report and evaluate the circumstances surrounding the faulty VMA alarm. The Authority shall propose measures to ensure high functionality and safety of the VMA system. Furthermore, MSB will report and evaluate the information to the public about the faulty VMA alarm. Based on the results of the evaluation, the Authority shall propose measures to alert and inform the public with high quality and safety through the existing channels for informing the public when a VMA alert is sent out. MSB shall report on its assignment by 15 December 2017. I am closely following developments in this area and intend to come back to the issue when MSB has reported its mission to the government.
i-12a4820b40574b86-155	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Justice and Home Affairs, for your answer. I think there were many of us who asked us when the alarm sounded over Stockholm and wondered what happened. I think there were a lot of us who closed windows and ventilation and waited for information, and it didn't come. The danger-over alarm didn't come either. It has turned out that strange things are also happening in other parts of the country with this particular system. The alarm has sounded completely in order in one place, but when the danger-over alarm is to sound, it is not possible to make it sound only at that location but it also sounds over other adjacent areas. There are countless things that make you start to think about how modern this alarm really is and whether there might be a reason for some kind of upgrade. Of course, it is not beyond reasonable doubt yet. It will be interesting to hear what MSB will report back to the Minister on the matter. It will be crucial for possible progress and development. I would like to ask the Minister a few supplementary questions. This applies to how to ensure the robustness and operation of important websites and telephone switches. I asked about it in my interpellation too. It was simply not possible to access several websites that can feel natural to go into such a location to search for information. The load was too great. It does not have the capacity to manage the amount of traffic that comes in such a situation. The same was true of several telephone switches. Information had difficulty reaching out also to regular news channels, such as Swedish Radio and SVT. Swedish Radio also plays a role in the system around VMA. One should be an information channel, but it was difficult to get correct information when it happened. I would like to hear the Minister's views and reflections on this. It may well be said that it is particularly unsatisfactory that other parts of the VMA system find it difficult to find out what is going on when the alarm goes out. Swedish Radio did not know how to inform the public whether it was a false alarm or not.
i-12a4820b40574b86-163	Madam President, I would like It is extremely important that we can trust the alarm Important message to the public, VMA. The basic problem is that we were unable to do so on 9 July. Several mistakes were made, as Erik Ottoson has pointed out. An obvious error was that what was meant as a silent test... that it was about... went out sharply. That was one of the mistakes. Another mistake was that there was never any danger-over signal. A third mistake that I want to add, and which I think Erik Ottoson was on, was that it took ten minutes before the Swedish Radio P4 was told that the alarm was false. Swedish Radio P4 is the channel that will inform the public about what has happened. The basic thing is that if you hear the VMA outdoors you should go to those information channels. Ten minutes is far too long a time period. We take what happened seriously. That's why the government acted very quickly. On July 9, the mistake was made, and on July 13, we gave MSB this assignment. As I said, they will report to me on December 15th. The mission is quite broad. MSB, together with the actors, especially SOS Alarm but also municipalities in this case, will investigate what went wrong, why there was no danger-over signal, why it took ten minutes before P4 was told and how to prevent it. The mission also includes reviewing the provision of information to the public. The problems pointed out by Erik Ottoson, for example, regarding websites that are so heavily burdened that it is no longer possible to get into them, must also be included in that analysis to see what can be done to strengthen those systems. Overall, as I said, the government takes this seriously. That's why we acted quickly and gave MSB the assignment. We'll have to follow this. The result will be on 15 December. Then I am happy to inform Erik Ottoson and have a dialogue with the Riksdag about how we can proceed to prevent and reduce the risks of getting back into the same situation.
i-12a4820b40574b86-170	Madam President, I would like It is satisfying that the government has acted quickly with the mission to MSB. Morgan Johansson can count on a written question from the undersigned sometime around 16 December. We'll see if he can answer it before Christmas. It is possible that the answer will come after New Year's. I believe that many experienced the seriousness of this. It creates anxiety and fear and, as I said, mistrust as to whether you can trust the alarm or not. Now it has happened on one occasion. It is therefore important for the Minister to send out the political signals, as he is doing now, that this should not happen again, that it is unacceptable and that the necessary measures should be taken. Some of the things you would have to do are fairly easy to analyze, for example in terms of the capacity of websites. This concerns the relevant authorities and information channels. We may not even have to wait for the results of the MSB's investigation to tell them that they have too little capacity in crisis situations. I believe that this conclusion can be drawn relatively quickly. I also imagine that some authority has already come to that conclusion. This may reflect a decades-long view of the work with Swedish civil defence and crisis preparedness. We have thought that it is a little safer and safer and that everything is a little better than it might have been. In recent years we have begun to open our eyes to what needs to be done, and that is essentially good. I would like to ask the Minister whether, in the context of other crisis preparedness activities, conclusions have already been drawn, in particular, from the issue of congestion. It's not just when a VMA goes out. It can also be in other situations when people are looking for information. We had a second act of terror on Drottninggatan not too long ago. Then the information channels were also heavily burdened. There are a number of other situations that could happen, as it may even be real, and people need to seek information but feel that they do not get it. I felt that the information through the media and from the police during the terrorist attack was good enough, albeit not very good. A lot of incorrect information also swirled around in different contexts, for example about shootings in the wrong places. Here too, I believe that this particular form of information plays an important role. As far as information is concerned, I think we need to take a stronger approach to the issue of capacity, so as to ensure that the proper channels of information are always available. The incorrect information channels, the spread of reputations on social media and the spread of reputation through the media, should always have a fact-based counterpart that does not collapse in a crisis situation.
i-12a4820b40574b86-178	Madam President, I would like There are several pieces and parts here. This is the problem of the VMA on 9 July when a wrong message came out. It has its own special trail. MSB looks at it specifically, to see what went wrong and how it can be prevented. They will come back to me on 15 December, and I am happy to answer a written question after that. It's part of it. We also have the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan on 7 April. In this regard, we have also commissioned a special investigator to look at what happened and evaluate the operation, how it was acted. After all, the general picture I have is that we were so prepared that when it happened in Sweden, the authorities acted very quickly, especially police and medical care. They were quickly in place, able to arrest the perpetrator and take care of the injured in a good way. The medical care in Stockholm County quickly rose to the level of preparedness needed in such situations. Public transport also acted to prevent the offender's flight and other possible acts. We did not know at that time whether it was an individual event or whether there would be more attacks in other places in the city. But the general picture is that it works relatively well. But nothing works so well that it can't get any better. In two weeks, I will receive an evaluation analysis of the investigator who has looked at this. Then there is the whole question of civil defence. After the second major defence agreement earlier this autumn, we are now making a great effort. During three years – 2018, 2019 and 2020 – we enter a total of SEK 1.3 billion. So that's 430 million a year to raise civil defence preparedness. It is the first time in at least 15 years that we have that perspective. This has been for the foam for many years. If military defence is about fighting back an attacker, civil defence is about protecting the civilian population and supporting military defence. In the 2015 defence decision on civil defence, it was decided to restore it, but there was never any money. That money will now come from next year. It is incredibly exciting and fun to be involved in rebuilding that readiness again. Part of the SEK 430 million is about strengthening information security and the whole IT issue. There have been a number of missions to various authorities. One of the actors here is SOS Alarm, which has an important function for us in terms of both the telephone number 112 and in general. We will strengthen SOS Alarm with SEK 111 million from next year. With that addition, we have increased the state's share by 50% for next year. That money is needed to improve also SOS Alarm.
i-12a4820b40574b86-187	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the informative answer! I think it is good that we can have a consensus on these issues and that we can make agreements that lead us right. As the Minister says, there has been a different view of this for many years. It is good that we now have a consensus on how to move forward. When you talk about civil defence, it is important for the image to understand that it is not about the civil defence of the old days, but about something more modern. It's not about concrete bunkers that nowadays you don't even know where they are. You can run into them when you're going to build other things. Among other things, a filled concrete bunker was found to expand the crossway through Sundbyberg; no one knew. There are plenty of things that remain, but should not be revived. Both I and the Minister agree that there are much more important things to do, such as information. Now there is a completely different kind of threat picture with terrorist acts and accidents that can occur. This makes the measures different. It feels good that we are now moving forward in this. I look forward to hearing the conclusions of the evaluation of the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan and the report on the false alarm on 9 July. But thank you for this debate.
i-12a4820b40574b86-191	Madam President, I would like I do not believe that there are any major differences of party political opinion in this. We all want systems that are robust when it is really needed and that do not go wrong. As I said, on 15 December, I get the report from MSB on VMA, the wrong signal on 9 July. In a couple of weeks, I'll have the review of April 7th. We will continue with the efforts we will make on civil defence, which are backed up by a broad majority in the Riksdag in the framework of the defence agreement last autumn. Civil defense, as I said, has been too far away for many years. We're re-establishing that now. One of the first signs that I think the citizens will notice is that they will receive a publication in the spring that will be sent out to all households in Sweden. The writing is about what to think about in the event of various crises or, in the worst case, increased preparedness. All households will receive that information. You might recognize that from old times. During the whole postwar period, there was a publication in four or five editions entitled If the war comes where it said what to think about. Someone like this, but in more modern form, MSB will send out to all households during the spring. It has to be a printed matter, because you also have to take altitude because our IT systems can be knocked out. We will do a great deal within the framework of civil defence and the increase in preparedness in the coming years. We also have a lot of money set aside for this purpose.
i-12a4820b40574b86-196	Madam President, I would like Erik Ottoson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that hunter-id is considered to be an adequate identification mark on game cameras or bait cameras and traps. The interpretation is made, inter alia, in the light of the information requirement proposed in the report A new camera surveillance law and the requirement under the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's regulations that fishing gear used must be marked with the user's name, address and telephone number. Within the Ministry of Justice, we are currently working on a legislative referral on the proposals in the report A new camera security team. Among other things, the investigation's proposal removes the authorisation requirement for private law entities to use bait cameras. During the consultation, comments have been received from, among others, the Swedish Hunter Association on the investigation's proposal that the disclosure obligation in camera surveillance should include the name of the person responsible for camera surveillance. The Swedish Hunter Association argues that hunter-id according to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's hunting card register should be able to replace names as identification when providing information about camera surveillance. These comments will be carefully analysed during the work on the legislative referral. With regard to the issue of the labelling of fishing gear, this is within the responsibility of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. It is therefore not for the government to assess the requirements for such gears.
i-12a4820b40574b86-199	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I understand that there is a process going on, and I look forward very much to the outcome of that process. Interpellation is in the face of the growing threat of violence and other consequences that many hunters today experience in carrying out their activities. This means that there can be a resistance – spiritual and other – to putting out your identification in directly readable condition in the forest where you do not know who gets angry and upset that there is hunting. We have a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament today that hunting is an important part of nature conservation and game conservation. They shall be conducted in a responsible manner. There are rules on how this is to happen, but yet there may often be a situation where there are people who disagree. Sometimes threatening situations arise. There are, for example, contexts where search hunters. In order to reduce the unnecessary suffering of animals, tyres may be cut or cars broken. They can get threats and other things in the mailbox or directly between four eyes. That is very unfortunate. My interpellation aims to highlight the importance of this and ask whether one can achieve the need to identify someone who, within the new law, monitors to map and identify game – this in order to be able to carry out a more qualitative game management while at the same time reducing the risk of threats to the individual, at least to some extent. The same kind of identification requirements exist, as the Minister mentions, in the case of fishing gears and there are the same problems. In the case of fishing gears, it is mainly a matter of catching predators in order to thus promote fauna or of catching invasive species that have an ecological interest in keeping in check. I understand what the Minister says, that this is within the responsibility of the Environmental Protection Agency. The Government writes regular regulatory letters to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The Government has thus authorized the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to do just that. After all, there is some political room for manoeuvre in this form of question. I think that many people feel that the marking of cameras in terrain and the marking of traps in terrain are comparable. That's also why I chose to lift this into the interpellation. At the same time, however, I understand the formula behind the Minister's reply. Hopefully you can still send some kind of signal to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency through regulatory letters or other that the issue of threats and violence against hunters is important. This particular variant may not be chosen to facilitate the situation, but I believe that there is an untapped potential for pre-computer control and control of invasive species. However, it seems to be hampered by the need to display the name, telephone number and address of the catching gear in order to be able to use it and do so within all the landmarks of the law. I look forward to hearing the Minister's thoughts in this area.
i-12a4820b40574b86-210	Madam President, I would like First of all, I note that the fact that we can now remove the licensing requirement for the bait cameras is a very great success. The hunters have long wanted to use cameras in this way. We will deliver this. This is, in fact, an issue that we Social Democrats were running in opposition during the time when I was chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Then, when we came into government and were going to review the Camera Surveillance Act to, among other things, extend the possibilities of camera surveillance particularly crime-prone places and some other things, we said that we should include this issue in the investigation as well so that it can be resolved. Now everything seems to be resolved in this regard, and I know that this is welcomed by the hunters. Threats and violence against hunters are, of course, unacceptable, and this must, of course, be combated. This is primarily a police matter. You have to make sure to report it, and then the police will have to arrest the perpetrators that exist. The problem that Erik Ottoson raises is about how to label the cameras that are out in the woods. One concern is that we do not fully control this ourselves. At the bottom is the EU Data Protection Regulation, which will enter into force on 25 May. It applies, like all EU regulations, directly as Swedish law. In this regulation, it is clear that there must be an indication on the camera of who is responsible for it and for monitoring. This applies, as I said, to all the cameras sitting up and not just those we are talking about now. If so, would a hunter's ID be enough? It would do that for the authorities so that they can see who is responsible for monitoring. The problem is that the General Data Protection Regulation does not just take into account that the authorities need to know this. The purpose of the regulation is for the public to know who monitors if one has come to a picture from one of these cameras. So the public must know. The Jägar-id is otherwise classified. There is no automatic access by the public to these IDs and who is behind each identity. This makes it difficult to claim that we would live up to the General Data Protection Regulation if we make such a regulation. That is the problem. We're not finished with the analysis yet. The proposals put forward in the study are quite detailed in terms of exactly what should be stated. We are still looking at whether it needs to be so detailed, but we will have to come back to that when we present the legislative referral in a few months' time. The important thing is to see who is behind the camera, that is, who is responsible for it. It is usually a private person, but it can also be an organisation behind it. No matter how it is, it should be accounted for. As I said, we will come back to how this is to be regulated in detail. The problem, however, is that we are bound by the General Data Protection Regulation. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the traps are regulated by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Moreover, this is not under my department but another department.
i-12a4820b40574b86-219	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the filling answer! I fully agree that the General Data Protection Regulation is the basis here. It means that no matter how we turn it around, some kind of change will have taken place that achieves what we are talking about now. We picked up the hunter-id. The point is that the public should be able to know who monitors at any given time if you are looking for this. I'm not entirely sure if the information about the hunter-id is classified is correct. I was of the opinion that you can contact the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to find out who has a certain hunting ID, even if the entire register is not available in the form of open data. You can possibly check what's really true. I disagreed with the Minister, and I am sure it is possible to find out what is right. At least through the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's website, I have been able to find out a good friend's hunting ID on one occasion not too long ago. So somehow it is still possible to access it. However, I do not know if it goes the other way, that is if you have a hunting ID and want to find out who has this. There may be different dimensions of it all. No matter how you turn it around, a variant could be that you make it possible for a hunting ID to be used on the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's website or by otherwise contacting the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to find out who has it. I cannot quite understand why this would be a more confidential data than other personal data. What I'm after is that as a civilian, you should at least have to make some kind of effort to find out who has set up a certain camera. The effort must not be too great, but if there is at least a small barrier, the risk of threats of violence and persecution towards individuals is reduced. This is the basic intention.
i-12a4820b40574b86-224	Madam President, I would like Like I said, we're in the middle of a preparation. We have just taken in the views of the consultative bodies and are going through them. We'll see how we're going to land in the final stages. I appreciate the input that Erik Ottoson is making here, and I will do what I can to enable us to resolve this issue as well. Quite simple is the one who said not. We have to live up to the fact that the public has an opportunity to know who has photographed if you end up in a picture somewhere. That is the point. We prepare this further, and we will try to do as much as we can in this part and within the framework of the General Data Protection Regulation. We will come back to Parliament with new legislation, and I believe that we will be able to deliver it at the beginning of next year.
i-12a4820b40574b86-226	Madam President, I would like I can only thank you for the debate. I think we've exhausted the subject.
i-12a4820b40574b86-227	Madam President, I would like Nor do I have anything to add.
i-12a4820b40574b86-228	Madam President, I would like Erik Ottoson has asked me whether I intend to appoint the newly established authority for digitalisation to support municipalities and county councils in their work with open data. The Government works together with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils for a more open administration that supports innovation and participation. I therefore share Ottoson's view that it is also important for municipalities and county councils to participate in the work of making available and using open data. In response to Erik Ottoson's previous interpellation on open data, I gave examples of what the government has recently done to drive the development of open data. Since then, the government has presented in the budget bill an investment in, among other things, open data covering SEK 20 million per year for three years. In addition, the Government wants to establish a new authority to develop, coordinate and support the digitisation of the public sector. The proposal for a new authority was presented by the study on effective governance of national digital services in a collaborative management. The proposal means that the responsibility for digitalisation in the public sector, i.e. including the municipal sector, should be gathered to an authority. According to the investigator, there was much to suggest that the mission to promote the availability of public data, that is, what includes open data, is related to the overall mission of the Authority. The proposal from the investigation is currently being prepared within the Government Office, mainly through the preparation of a committee directive for the organisational committee to set up the agency.
i-12a4820b40574b86-231	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The issue of open data has been discussed many times. It's a dear reunion. This time the issue was focused on the local government sector, which both I and the Government have identified as a difficult sector to do together in. I have some supplementary questions on the basis of the Minister's reply. In what way do they work together with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils? The answer states that it does, but what does the work look like? The essence of the question is not really answered either. Will the new authority have a task related to the municipalities' work on the issue of open data? I fully understand that we are now in the preparatory phase, but I imagine that there is an ambition behind the creation of the agency. It is basically a question of the powers of such an authority, and I imagine that this must be determined quite early in the process. How much should one work towards, on the one hand, government agencies, on the other hand, the municipal part of the Swedish Government and public Sweden? It is really the heart of the matter, which I want to come to, because making this form of information available is so crucial to the success of the project. It is about that information should be able to be read quickly in the same way regardless of where it comes from and form large amounts of information that you can see patterns in and that can create values from. In this way, valuable analyses of public activities can also be carried out to promote efficiency and development. At the end of the day, it is a matter of making the best use of each chandelier. I believe that there is much to be done here in the local government sector. A large proportion of our well-being is carried out within the framework of municipalities and county councils, and there is work within many municipalities. But I do not feel that SKL has identified open data as a priority area, although they work a lot with digitalisation. Therefore, I imagine that, despite this, this authority may be able to play an important role. I have had some dialogue with representatives of SKL who put the picture that they do not have the resources to deal with the big issue of creating standards, but that one could possibly manage to validate standards created by someone else. I think it is probably so important that the municipality's own association has that role, while standards may be created or in some way initiated by this authority, if one chooses to use it that way. Many of the data sets are not just municipal or just state but move, as it were, across the border, and then I can imagine that there is added value in that standards are at least initiated at state level.
i-12a4820b40574b86-237	Madam President, I would like I thank Erik Ottoson for his speech and for his commitment to this issue. We need to continue to intensify work on open data. Due to a lack of governance and coordination and a lack of effort over the past 10 to 15 years, we have fallen behind in this respect. In international comparisons, we are the second worst in the OECD on open data. It is really sad that this is the case in a country where there is so much data and such a tradition of working with openness and transparency. There should be a much clearer focus on efficiency improvements and increased productivity ambitions in public activities. We have the conditions for collaboration with the private sector to develop new products and services that make life easier for people and entrepreneurs based on public data. Much must be done. Some measures have now been taken in connection with the budget proposal. This agency will be in place next year. It is very important that we have coordination and governance. This requires standardisation, as Erik Ottoson is concerned, but so far there has not been an actor with social responsibility. Yes, we will work on that question. We will have to come back to exactly how we cut the issue of open data when we decide on the organisation committee, but we have received some resources to carry out open data projects at national level. I will come back with that information when we present the Organising Committee's directives. The challenge we have ahead of us in terms of collaboration with the local government sector is that we have agreements with SKL on an overall level, while this phase of work needs to become more operational. As Erik Ottoson says, it is about developing standards for open data. It is about common digital services, if we go outside the area of open data. It is about building a national digital infrastructure that is also used by the municipal sector. It is not a question of bringing forward some beautiful visions and documents, but of operating work between the state and the local government sector. As far as the state is concerned, we are now creating the platform for this with the authority. But the agency will have to work operationally with the country's county councils and municipalities. We will have to come back to exactly what that platform should look like. This is something that we will have to take part in developing next year and next year, but, as I said, there will not be enough ambition agreements with SKL, but we must now go into the more operational phase. One of the few good things about the fact that we have not been the world leader in this area but have fallen behind is that we can learn from the experience of other countries. We know how the Danes have worked, how the Estonian Government has worked, how the Dutch have worked and how the Norwegians now work. We have commissioned the OECD to evaluate Sweden's work with open data. Norway has just received a paper from the OECD on the work on open data and the digital infrastructure. We look at those experiences and recommendations as we enter the operational phase in 2018. The agency will work with the municipalities. It's incredibly important. This is an authority for the digitisation of the public sector, not the state sector. We see the public sector as a group when it comes to digitalisation, and that will be a very clear focus for us.
i-12a4820b40574b86-242	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. It is gratifying that there is a clear message from the Government that this will apply to the entire public sector and that there will be clear operational work with municipalities and county councils. I think that's exactly what's needed. We have discussed the issue in a little different directions, sometimes in terms of some form of CEO, some kind of coordination function at the department, a I believe that this is possibly an important step in the right direction. When you talk to representatives of Local Government, the recurring point is: We can certainly make a lot of things available, but how, where, when and in what way? So you feel a little lost. IT skills are clearly scarce in Sweden and the world as a whole, and demand is enormous. It is not always the local government sector that can compete as an employer for the very sharpest IT technologies, especially if the wheel is to be invented time after time in 290 municipalities. It is extremely good that this is now beginning to happen, because I believe that this very form of help is needed. We have also talked about procurement of common systems and things that can be done jointly. Perhaps that is more the task of SKL than that of a digitization authority. It is also a task that SKL takes seriously and works with. That's where they put their main focus. It is good, then, that there is a clear division of labour between the different actors operating at national level, albeit in different sectors. With that, I can only thank you very much for your answer. I look forward very much to the comitology directive and to seeing how it can develop and, above all, look forward to the results of the work.
i-12a4820b40574b86-246	Madam President, I would like I would really like to thank Erik Ottoson for his commitment. We need that commitment. I would urge Erik Ottoson to continue to examine the work of the government. We also need pressure from Parliament. Since these issues moved to the Ministry of Finance last year, we have done everything we can to accelerate the work and pace of the digitisation process. We have a long journey ahead of us. Our comparable countries are now ahead of us. It can't be like that. We must simply ensure that the steps taken in 2018 are leveraged for more radical changes in how we work with digitalisation in the public sector. We have enormous challenges ahead of us in the public sector. Digitalisation is one of the tools that must be used to make resources more efficient. It is far from satisfactory how it is done in today's situation. Things have to change. We also need pressure from Parliament.
i-12a4820b40574b86-250	Madam President, I would like Rikard Larsson has asked the Minister for Culture and Democracy what measures she will take to solve the border barrier that exists so that border commuters have the right to leave for political missions. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I interpret the question so that it is primarily about leave of absence for politicians at local and regional level and will therefore focus on this. The need for a legislative amendment that gives elected representatives the right to leave of absence even if they work in another country was already mentioned in 2009 by the Öresund Committee in a letter to the Swedish and Danish Governments respectively. A review of the need was carried out by the Committee for the Improvement of the Functioning of Municipal Democracy in the Vital Municipal Democracy Report (SOU 2012:30). The Committee considered that there was a need to introduce rules on leave for elected representatives working in another country, despite the fact that the number of people involved is currently small. The Committee therefore considered that the possibility of introducing a mutual right to leave for elected representatives, primarily between the Nordic countries, should be further explored. A joint declaration to facilitate elected councillors' leave of absence in the Nordic countries was subsequently signed at the municipal ministerial meeting in 2014. A draft bilateral agreement on mutual recognition of leave rules for political missions in Sweden and Denmark at local and regional level was received in 2016 from Denmark. The question is now being further prepared within the Government Office. The issue has been raised since 2014 in the Nordic Council of Ministers' Border Barriers database. This border barrier is one of Sweden's so-called priority border barriers in the Border Barriers Council. Of course, it is important that people do not refrain from engaging politically because of obstacles of this kind.
i-12a4820b40574b86-255	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'll give you a little background to the question. It is not, in fact, aimed primarily at the Government, because the Government can do so by heart, but at those who may listen to the debate. Usually when you ask people if they know politicians, it is associated with politicians like the Government or maybe even myself, that is, full-time politicians. It can be municipal councillors, regional councillors or county councillors. But that is not really how political Sweden looks. Political Sweden has many politicians, several tens of thousands, who in their free time are involved in politics. They have another job in essence. These people should be able to carry out their assignments, sit with and decide on the resources for school or health care, how traffic should work in the cities, what the street environment should look like and how we should build our homes. These are very important tasks we often set the framework for here in Parliament. In order for them to carry out those assignments, it is necessary to be on leave of absence from their work in order to be able to do so. We have written this into law. That's great. But for a group of people who are constantly growing, this is not the case. This applies to those who commute across a land border to get to work. They are in no way different from all the others who are leisure politicians. They go to work in the morning, and they come home in the afternoon. In the Öresund region, which is the region that I know best, there are more than 15 000 people who get on the train or in the car daily in the morning, go to work in Copenhagen. On the other side of the bridge a few miles away is Denmark's largest workplace Kastrup. They live just like anyone. They haven't moved to any other country. They live in Malmö, Staffanstorp, Lund or wherever they live. But they do not have the right to take time off from their work in order to carry out their political mission. I was previously a member of the Öresund Committee, which is a committee between Sweden and Denmark to promote development in the Öresund region. As the Government said, we raised the issue in the Committee in 2009. I don't want to point fingers at anyone. There are several governments involved, there are different political colors and there are two countries. But I can feel a little bit that if we hopefully solve this issue next year, it will have taken ten years. It has taken ten years to ensure that those who commute to their job across a country border, it is not even certain that it is further away, get the same rights as everyone else get to engage politically. I feel confident that it is precisely the Secretary of State who has the question. Although I put the question to another minister, I am grateful that it is the Minister for Civil Affairs who has the question. But it's been a long time. Now that there is an agreement, my question is to the Minister for Civil Affairs: are there any difficulties in that agreement? Is there anything that can make it a little difficult to come forward quickly on the matter, or is it just to sign?
i-WWEM2256hwb5C9R956jV6e	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rikard Larsson, for the question! Swedish democracy is based on regional and local commitment. It is a fundamental condition for us that democracy at regional and local level works well. We have several threats to it. We have threats and violence against municipal and regional representatives who have led to the fact that only in the last year have several councillors and county councils chosen to end their commitment because they feel that there is a threat to even one's family. It can't be like that. Let us come back to that question. There are also legal and practical conditions that must be in place for it to work. In areas where we have cross-border commuting, the kind of obstacle that Rikard Larsson points to is one of the obstacles to a well-functioning local and regional democracy. We will give priority to this work. The issue is currently being dealt with at the Ministry of Finance, among other things. In November 2014, the Danish Government submitted a proposal to amend the legislation in force in Denmark. This amendment has given the Danish Government the opportunity to conclude bilateral agreements. Then there are a lot of practical questions that we need to look at. It is clear that this may impose a burden on employers because it means that they will be forced to grant more elected leave. But the starting point is that the principles that will facilitate political engagement that are protected in our legislation today should also apply in cross-border situations. That will be the starting point for our work. My entry into this is that we will solve it as soon as the opportunity is given.
i-12a4820b40574b86-271	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for your answer. I also believe that there may be difficulties in dealing with this issue quickly. But I also think that you should try to do it in a way so that you don't mess it up unnecessarily. In this case it concerns Sweden and Denmark. It can also concern Sweden and Norway or Sweden and Finland, where you have a border commute. Both Sweden and Denmark have rights legislation; you can take time off from work. In fact, it is nothing for the employer but to give the same rights to the worker who has been employed who lives in Malmö as the person who lives in Køge. There can be little difference for the employer. It's the same relationship for all those who are employed. It has been said that this is probably not a huge question and not a big problem today. I would like to say that we do not really know for sure how big it is. This can be taken into account in the decision that is still too few, namely to engage politically and take a political mission. We also know that, even for all those who have the legal right to take leave of work, it is a little troubling to have political missions. This means that you often have to hand things over to your workmates and that you have to be away a couple of times a month. You might have an employer who doesn't really think this is very good. Thus, even those who are legally entitled may have concerns about this. Then, of course, it becomes even more worrying for those who do not have the legal right. However, I fully share the assessments made by the Government and what he points out about local democracy and threats to elected representatives. We have a need for more people who are prepared to take on municipal assignments as leisure politicians, and not fewer. I thank the Minister for his reply and look forward to signing agreements on regulatory changes, or whatever it may be.
i-12a4820b40574b86-277	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Rikard Larsson for the speeches and for the interpellation on this important issue. We intend to continue working on the issue at the Ministry and will do everything we can to resolve this issue as soon as possible.
