i-2fa05156b3d0182f-0	Mr President, I would like to Today, the government presents its fourth autumn budget and at the same time lays the foundations for the next parliamentary term's reform work. The bourgeois deficit economy is now a thing of the past. There is now order in public finances. Surpluses are growing, and public debt is the lowest since 1977. The government has been conducting the strictest fiscal policy since the 1990s crisis. We have made tough priorities and necessary changes. Inefficient tax rebates that do not create jobs have been abolished. An unsustainable migration policy has been changed. Investment in the construction of society has consistently gone ahead of large, unfunded tax cuts. Politics brings results. Today, 200 000 more people go to work than when the government took office, and youth unemployment is the lowest in 14 years. This means that we are in a completely new position – Sweden is now in an economic position of strength. Now this strength will be used both responsibly and fairly. Government debt will continue to decrease, while Sweden's economic success will benefit everyone. Everyone knows it's necessary. There are many challenges and problems that we need to solve. Too many children do not learn enough in school. Too many people have to wait too long in health care. There's too many crimes that aren't cleared up. Too many people are struggling to find a job, many of which have come to Sweden from other countries. The gaps are too big. Here, Sweden is facing a political choice. Should Sweden continue to be a country that holds together? Should Sweden also be safe in a new age? Are we going to invest together in knowledge and belief in the future and compete for tomorrow's jobs, or are we going to lower taxes, privatise and cut back? For me, the choice is obvious – we will develop the Swedish model. Mr President, I would like to Everyone who can work is going to work. That is why the goal of the EU's lowest unemployment is guiding government policy. Supporting oneself on a job gives people the power and freedom to shape their own lives. Sweden now has its highest employment rate since 1992, and next year we will have the lowest dependency on our common insurance systems since 1981. In this way, we will continue, with changed tax rules for employee options and improved opportunities for small, innovative companies to recruit and retain key employees. More people will dare to take the step of starting their own business when the social protection net is strengthened for entrepreneurs, and more will be able to do their first job when growth support is extended. If jobs are to increase, it must be possible to live where there is a job or study place. There is therefore government investment aid, which for this year is expected to contribute to the start of the construction of 10,000 apartments with reasonable rents. Then we must also invest in infrastructure and communications, but above all there must be a skilled workforce. Swedish companies are screaming today for the right skills. The Swedish labour market today has two major problems, which together can be a solution. The first is that employers find it difficult to find the right skills to employ. The second is that we must shorten the way to jobs for newcomers and close the gap between domestic and foreign born. This is why the knowledge boost is being built to cover over 90 000 training opportunities. At the same time, we are strengthening the quality of vocational education and training, and we are also strengthening educational efforts for new arrivals. Mr President, I would like to There are still women in Sweden waiting to make the journey that many other women made in the 50s, 60s and 70s – the journey that goes towards their own livelihood and towards the freedom and opportunities that it means to decide for yourself how to live their lives. In Sweden, no one should have to get caught in unpaid domestic work. We have abolished the right-wing custody allowance because it excluded women from the labour market. We've changed parental insurance so that newly arrived women can get to work more quickly. We are now also introducing training requirements so that everyone can take their place in the classrooms. It should be easy for employers to hire someone who is far from the labour market. A uniform employment subsidy is introduced – so-called introductory job. We also introduce an incentive of half a billion SEK to municipalities that employ extra services. We have high ambitions with Sweden. New arrivals are needed in the labour market, and the same high standards of education and employability should be placed on everyone living in our country. In addition, the adaptability of the Swedish labour market needs to be high. That is why social security is being strengthened, and almost 3 million wage earners receive a tax reduction when the tax reduction on trade union contributions is introduced. Our common community building should be safe and fair. Mr President, I would like to The school will equip everyone for the labour market, for social life and for further education. We do not know much about the future, but one thing we can be absolutely sure of: tomorrow's job will require better knowledge than it is today. Therefore, I am proud that 20 000 more have been employed in school and that Swedish knowledge results are now rising in international comparisons. However, knowledge is not evenly distributed. They are not evenly distributed among students, and they are not evenly distributed among schools. That is why we will give priority to resources for those schools that need these resources most. We therefore extend compulsory schooling by making pre-school classes compulsory. We also intend to make professional programmes more attractive by introducing higher education qualifications. However, it is not only the quality of school and education that need to be strengthened. Financial conditions should not be an obstacle to starting a higher education, and therefore we increase the grant part of the educational aid by SEK 300 per month. In addition, 1.3 million families receive increased child and study benefits. This improves the everyday economy for those with the least margins. The fact that everyone can afford the children's leisure time, play, clothes and shoes increases equality. It strengthens general welfare and thus the Swedish model. Mr President, I would like to Should Sweden also be a leading welfare country in the next decade and decades thereafter? My answer is yes, and my job as finance minister is to guarantee the economic conditions for this. Then there must be order in the economy – there must be no major deficits. Then everyone who can work must do this. What is happening now is that Sweden is growing. We live longer and longer, while having more and more children. This is a strength for society. This is a good thing, but it also demands that welfare grows in line with the population. Therefore, since 2014, the government has allocated SEK 35 billion more to healthcare, school and care. With the budget that I present today, the contribution to welfare activities amounts to a total of SEK 50 billion by 2020. This presupposes that voters help with the priorities, so that the resource supplements we plan after 2018 do not turn into unfair tax cuts. That is what the voters will take a position on in next year's elections. My choice is clear: the care queues should be shortened, the coordination of care should be improved, staffing should be increased and maternity care should be strengthened. In this budget, we are investing almost 5.5 billion in health care. It is the biggest investment in healthcare that has been made in modern times.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-27	The focus on increased staffing in elderly care continues in 2018. The government's permanent reinforcement to municipalities, county councils and regions of 10 billion is increased to 15 billion in 2019 and then to 20 billion per year from 2020. Care for our children and our elderly will be safeguarded. We shall also ensure that people receive the welfare for which they pay taxes. The pursuit of profits drives up costs, leads to unjustified medical interventions, points out patients and students who are unprofitable and pushes down staff density and wages. It sees people. Therefore, there is a large majority of the Swedish people for tax money to go to health care, school and care, not to large profit withdrawals. The Government will make proposals for a limitation of profits during the parliamentary year. Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be a safe country. The government agrees with the Moderates and the Center Party on a continued increase in military forces and total defence of a total of SEK 2.7 billion per year. During the term of office, the government has made a 25 % contribution to military defence by 2020. This means that we are adapting the defence capabilities to the deteriorating security policy situation. If Sweden is to continue to be an open country, it needs order and order at its borders. The illegal trade in alcohol, drugs and weapons is fuelling serious organised crime and must be combated. Therefore, the Tullverket receives its largest addition in more than a decade. The fight against terrorism must be pursued and the democratic rule of law must be fully defended. Organised crime and violent crime must be suppressed and prosecuted, because citizens' confidence in the rule of law is damaged when police investigations are not allowed. Therefore, the police will be added 2 billion in 2018 and even more in the following years, twice as much as the police have requested in their budget documents. We shall be safe in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The police will fight crime, but we will also prevent it from developing. Hopelessness and exclusion must be replaced by a relationship and trust between people. A prerequisite for this is that we can see ourselves in others, that we take our personal share of responsibility but can also rely on others to do so. And if we are to recognize ourselves in others, Sweden must be a country that holds together, a country where the gaps are narrowing. It requires full employment, a jointly funded well-being and a good school for all. It requires order in the economy, it requires law and order in the country and it requires a concrete policy with a view to both equality and equality. The Swedish economy is now in a new situation. Sweden's success will now benefit everyone throughout the country. We will fight the growing divides. That success will benefit everyone especially applies to those who have been involved in building this amazing country – those who have laid the foundation for the welfare and built up the Sweden of which we are all so proud. The unfair tax gap between wage earners and pensioners, introduced by the previous government, is indecent and should be eliminated.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-34	The government lowers the tax rate for 1.5 million pensioners as early as 2018. Three out of four pensioners receive reduced tax. By 2020, we will completely remove the gap. Older people should be honored, not taxed. The reforms proposed by the government together with the Left Party in this budget bill lay the foundations for our future prosperity and develop the Swedish model.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-36	Mr President, I would like to I was somewhat unsure as to which Andersson, Magdalena Andersson or Ulla Andersson, who would physically stand here and present the budget today. In recent weeks, the Left Party has presented expenditure on expenditure and in recent years tax increases after tax increases, and it seems more to be the Left Party's view of general economic policy that now governs the government. The state should do more of everything except its real core tasks. The government thinks it has 40 billion to spend in a boom. 12 of these billions have been explicitly ordered and communicated by the Left Party. It is also the Left Party that governs the government's view of freedom of choice and welfare, i.e. that Reepalus's end to private welfare companies should be presented for better knowledge through the demands of the Left Party. The government's more liberal ministers can comfort themselves that we have promised that we will reject the proposal. It will not be implemented. The Left Party now also has its finger in the sloppy tax game that ended with Nordea choosing to leave Sweden. Against all this left-wing policy, the OECD's somewhat more low-key demands last week are on long-term reforms for jobs and for entrepreneurship. The OECD points out in its own way that Sweden is the rich country where it pays the worst to get a high level of education and that it is bad for Swedish growth. My question is very simple: how did you decide to surrender to the Left Party's view of economic policy?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-41	Mr President, I would like to When we Social Democrats have been in government, we have always pursued a responsible economic policy. Three times out of three we have cleaned up after bourgeois governments that have left large budget deficits behind, so this time too. What we have done is to turn the deficit that Ulf Kristersson left behind of 60 billion into a surplus of 80 billion next year. We use the surplus entirely in accordance with Parliament's rules and our fiscal targets. We use 40 billion, just over 1% of the GDP, to pay off on the national debt. This means that we get the lowest public debt since 1977, and just as much, 40 billion, we use to strengthen the Swedish model. It is important structural reforms to strengthen the Swedish model, because we have challenges to address. Parents worry that the children do not learn enough in school, pregnant women worry about their birth and we see that the police are putting rape reports high because they do not have time to investigate them. Of course we're gonna pay off the debt. However, a responsible government is also addressing the challenges that we see, and that is what we are doing with this budget.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-45	Mr President, I would like to The government is lowering a single tax. We welcome this exception to the general rule. You're lowering taxes on the country's pensioners. We will do the same. It is also good that you explicitly say that you are doing so because we have created the tax gap by first reducing the tax burden on those who work. Could you say with your hand, Minister of Finance, that you would have reduced the tax on the country's pensioners if we had not first reduced the tax on those who work? That's my first question. I have a second question. Economist after economist is now failing the government's spending pants in this budge ethylene. Overheating is a quote; risky, unbalanced, thin on structural reforms are others. In addition, the Ministry of Finance makes more optimistic forecasts than any other assessor. What have you understood that everyone else has misunderstood?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-50	Mr President, I would like to I met with the OECD, the European Commission and my fellow finance ministers in Tallinn last week. No one had the view expressed by Ulf Kristersson, namely that it would be an irresponsible economic policy to have a 1% surplus in public finances – quite the contrary.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-51	The Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party think that it is wrong for pensioners to pay higher taxes than wage earners. Here there has been a gap in politics. We are now eliminating that tax gap, and I hope, of course, that Ulf Kristersson will support it and therefore not introduce a sixth job tax deduction that would extend it further.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-52	Mr President, I would like to In the past, the government has abolished the possibility of saving private money for retirement – and this is in a situation where one can seriously question whether the public old-age pension system is actually delivering properly. Long-term forecasts suggest that the generation to which I belong will receive less than half of its final salary in retirement. The proportion of so-called poverty pensioners, which can be measured in slightly different ways, is increasing. Unlike in our Nordic neighbours, the trend is in the wrong direction. The number of older people with an income of less than 60% of the median amounts to well over a quarter of a million. Many Swedes therefore choose to save in the savings that are available and that the government now wants to tax. I have three questions about that. One: Why on earth does one choose to tax punishment rather than encourage savings? And now do not say that it only affects the rich, as we have heard, because it affects the small saver as much as it can monthly save a couple of hundred. Two: Will the government consider re-establishing the possibility of saving private money for its pension? Three: Will the government consider increasing the guarantee pension for the poorest elderly?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-59	Mr President, I would like to Consideration should be given to the implications of criminal taxation. The tax on an investment savings account is significantly lower than on other savings. With the tax change we make, the tax on an investment savings account will be about 23%, while on other savings it will be 30%. It is a new definition of criminal taxation when you have a tax rebate. It is also important to be clear what the amount we are talking about is. Those who have saved a few hundred dollars a month for many years and come up with savings of 50,000 receive a tax increase of 37.50 kroner a year. It is not 37.50 kroner a year for everyone, as it sounded at Oscar Sjöstedt, but it is for those who have regular savings. If, on the other hand, you have a lot of money in an investment savings account, you have to pay more in tax. People who have plenty of money and high incomes have to pay more tax on their investment savings than ordinary wage earners.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-61	Mr President, I would like to I think you miss something here, consciously or unconsciously. The Minister of Finance has a solid education, but the day you went through the interest-on-interest effect, the Minister of Finance was perhaps absent from school. I don't know. You can't see this at a time. If this is the Swedish people's alternative to pension savings, which the government has removed, you have to see it during a full career. It's not 37 crowns, not even for small savers. These are six-digit amounts even for those who save only small amounts. We will do a great deal in our budget. We will move forward with housing allowances more aggressively than the government has done, raise the guarantee pension and make greater tax cuts for the elderly. Back to the main question. If you do not want people to save private but at the same time provide a public old-age pension system that does not deliver properly, what is the Council of Finance for the 80s, for example, if they do not want to become poor pensioners?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-65	Mr President, I would like to I actually saw an example where you could come up with quite high amounts, and that was if a person had 1 million in their investment savings account for 40 years. Perhaps these are the voters that Oscar Sjöstedt is trying to focus the Swedish Democrats on. It goes without saying that we should have a well-functioning pension system for ordinary employees. The guarantee pension is an important issue discussed in the Pension Working Group. It's being investigated now, and you get back to spring. What we do in the budget is to ensure the safety of all our pensioners. We do so by eliminating the unfair tax gap. The first step in this stopped the Swedish Democrats in the Riksdag together with the bourgeois parties. We also raise the housing supplement and ensure that there is high quality in home care around the country. Our elderly should be safe during their old age. We shall honor them.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-68	Mr President, I would like to When we politicians present proposals and take initiatives, it is quite common for us to try to get out in the media to tell as many people as possible about what we are doing. Magdalena Andersson has a new take on this behavior. She now becomes front page news because she doesn't do anything. In Monday's Today's industry it is noted that the reform iver disappeared and that there are several of us who have criticised for a long time: This government does nothing about Sweden's long-term problems. The latest structural reform in Sweden, i.e. a reform that fundamentally improves the functioning of the Swedish economy, was made with the Alliance's job tax deduction, During the 90's, quite a few such grips were taken, Riksbank, fiscal framework and so on. But this government has not delivered anything. It is not short of grip for the one who once called himself a government of cooperation. We have a housing market that works far too badly. We have a labour market that keeps people out despite an extreme boom. We have a tax system that is working worse and worse. There are plenty of things to take care of. But the government is on all points counter-valls. You're a stop-block. When we come up with proposals for a better functioning labour market so that more people come in from those who are being held out today, that is no. When we come up with proposals to find a compromise on the housing market, including phasing out interest rebates and the like, it is no from Magdalena Andersson. That's no, no and no. It increases the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship when most people agree that it would be wise to make a tax agreement that significantly lowers the tax on this. Magdalena Andersson! Are you pleased that your and your government's passivity is now front-page?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-75	Mr President, I would like to You should have history clear to yourself, Emil Källström, and not try to distort. We invited all bourgeois parties to housing talks in order to reform the Swedish housing market. You left those calls. It was your choice. You also know what we had for talks afterwards: if there was the opportunity to make a deal with a few fewer parties if not everyone was there. The answer from you was no. It is important to know what structural reform is, because it is a deeply ideological issue. Structural reforms are not just anything. It is one thing for bourgeois politicians; it is something else for Social Democrats and left-wing politicians. We implement important structural reforms in the budget to strengthen the Swedish model, reduce gaps and ensure that all people can get to work. We are carrying out a major knowledge boost so that we get 20 percent more vocational training places in Sweden. It is a major and important structural reform. We implement the School Commission's proposal to strengthen equivalence in school and allocate SEK 6 billion to this from 2020. It is a very important structural reform. We ensure that the Swedish model works. It is important because when we look around the world at what happens when the gaps become too big, we see political forces stepping forward that are not good for the economy in the long term and that lead to increased protectionism. We see this debate around the world, and it points to the Swedish model and our structure as a model for successfully combining high employment, high growth and high equality. It is this structure that we defend in the budget, unlike the Center Party, which wants to lower wages and increase rents. Where does it lead? Not to good life.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-81	Mr President, I would like to This was an innovative approach: you take relatively small budget lines and rename them, and that is how the problem has been solved. You can't work that way. It is interesting that Magdalena Andersson mentions the housing calls that actually existed. Care should be taken to explain what is said behind closed doors. I note that around the table there were a number of red stop blocks. I wasn't one of them. The question is: Is everyone wrong – everyone who says that we have a labour market that needs to be modernised to allow more people in? We have a housing market that needs to be liberalised and modernised for greater mobility. Are they all wrong? The government Bildt liberalised large parts of Sossesverige. The Government Persson, together with the Center Party, sanitized the finances. The government of Reinfeldt made it again profitable to work. Magdalena Andersson was in the way of a boom – it is not a good rating for a government.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-85	Mr President, I would like to Not everyone thinks that reducing wages, raising rents and increasing gaps is the only way forward. There are a number of interest organisations, right-wing economists and right-wing politicians in Sweden who think so, but in the rest of the world the debate is somewhere else. In Davos, the theme of the February meeting of the World Economic Forum, which is not exactly a left-wing think tank, was inclusive growth. It was also at the meeting of the International Monetary Fund, which is also not a left-wing think tank. The international economic discussion concerns how to reconcile high growth, high employment and high equality. Here the Swedish model stands out as a shining example of how we can create a good society for everyone. It is precisely this Swedish model that we strengthen in the budget.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-87	Mr President, I would like to In the midst of the boom, the group is growing increasingly vulnerable in the Swedish labour market. Next year, 300 000 people will be in that group – often young people who have dropped out of high school and newly arrived with short education that does not enter the labour market. It is people who do not have a job to go to and who lack the community of the workplace and the sense of belonging and context. We are now seeing the emergence of a new lower class in Sweden where dependency on benefits risks inheriting. It is our common responsibility as politicians to see this social problem. As the Minister of Finance puts his budget on the table today, we see a complete lack of reforms to enable more people to enter the Swedish labour market. We don't see any initiatives for more simple, real jobs. We do not see any initiative to make it more profitable to move from grants to work. We do not see any reforms that are about having high expectations of beneficiaries looking for a job and being an active part of the labour market. Before the elections, the Social Democrats promised that Sweden will have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. How'd it go? Sweden falls into the European job league and is in 15th place, while 300 000 people are outside the labour market and knock on and want to come in. Even though the government has a much more optimistic view of whether jobs should grow beyond what all independent experts have, you will fail in your job goal. Magdalena Andersson! How does it feel to break your promise to the Swedish people?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-92	Mr President, I would like to It is a redefinition of a promise. We have said that we are going to reach the target by 2020, but we are not there. On the other hand, we see that the government's policy has had an effect. Unemployment has fallen, and more than half of the decrease is due to government policies. Next year unemployment will fall below 6%, and 0.4 percentage points of this will depend on government policy. Are we going to believe that forecast or not? Yes, unlike when the Liberals were in government, our government's forecasts have fallen out and become reality in terms of unemployment. Mats Persson says that we have no measures for people to get to work. That is simply not correct. We have a series of measures in the budget and a comprehensive programme. It is about expanding training places: 90 000 more training opportunities to enable people to take the jobs that employers, who shout for labour, have available. We are reassigning the entire mission of establishment to make it clearer demands – not like when the Liberals were in government. We were then entitled to an establishment plan, but now we have clear requirements for those who are in the start-up phase, as for other unemployed people. Among other things, we are introducing an education obligation. In addition, we continue with work for simple jobs and even greater support for municipalities that ensure that people can work extra in welfare and among other things help in home care. We set aside resources for green jobs so that people can clear sly, maintain our nature reserves and repair our hiking trails. We also set aside money to clean our beaches. The government thus has a comprehensive programme for people who are far from the labour market to enter, including people with disabilities – we are expanding Samhall and increasing wage subsidies. Everyone who can work should work.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-99	Mr President, I would like to Magdalena Andersson makes the classic mistake that is so easy to make when you are a finance minister: you paint with beautiful, fine brush strokes to describe the reality but forget to mention the 300 000 who are not on the Swedish labour market and who do not want anything rather than to come in and be part of the workplace community. You betray them with your politics, Magdalena Andersson. Satisfaction is evident when one says: we do all these things, and unemployment is falling. But it does not sink fast enough, but Sweden falls into the European job league. We're in 15th place, but when you started your journey, we were in ninth or tenth place. It takes 130 000 new jobs to achieve your unemployment target, and you yourself write in your budget that you will not achieve it. This cannot be described as anything but fatal failure. Magdalena Andersson! How does it feel to break your promise to the Swedish people?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-103	Mr President, I would like to I think it's serious when you reinterpret our election promises and use it aggressively, Mats Persson. That is not a good way to act in politics. We have said that we will reach the target by 2020. The forecast is based on the measures in the budget. If we get renewed confidence, we will continue to come up with further measures to bring down Swedish unemployment. So far it has fallen to just over 6%, and the forecast for next year is that it will fall below 6%. We have a number of measures for this, and they are quite different from those proposed by the Liberals and Mats Persson. He says that a new lower class is emerging while he wants us here in Parliament to legislate to reduce wages, not only for new arrivals but also for our young people. Then a new lower class emerges, especially as he wants to raise rents at the same time.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-106	Mr President, I would like to There are a lot of things that are going to happen according to Magdalena Andersson's speech. One thing and the other is supposed to happen, but she has been in power throughout her term of office. Unfortunately, we are looking at areas after areas lost years. We see a care that, according to the government, before they took office, was falling apart and would be turned to world class. This care now has a massive increase in care queues and a very high level of inequality. The care queues cannot be spoken away, but they must be removed with proper measures. We would see Europe's lowest unemployment. Even now in a boom of fire, and with the government's own joy figures, Sweden is nowhere near the target. Instead, we see an increased division of labour and a labour market policy that has broken down several times. What we do not see are sufficient reforms to address the problems, but we are simply building out the public commitment in a boom with an almost infinite number of expenditure reforms. This leads to high risks of overheating. Above all, it does not equip Sweden properly in good times for the worse so that care can work, so that everyone can get a chance in the labour market, so that the security of the elderly increases and so that the person who commits crime gets caught so that trust can grow. I think the government doesn't really fix the basic lighting before it picks up all the sparklers that light up the sky at the moment. It's a bit of a flame, but when the twilight of recession comes, we've kind of burned the resources-- they've flared. I would like to give Magdalena Andersson the opportunity to explain himself in these areas. What draft budgets does Magdalena Andersson estimate that she has presented that has significantly reduced the division of two into the labour market, which has shortened the care queues and has increased the availability of retirement homes in Sweden?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-112	Mr President, I would like to I am, of course, talking about what is going to happen and what is in this budget. It is not an annual report that we are talking about, but the reforms that we have for next year. In fact, I think that's what Parliament expects me to tell you about too. Jakob Forssmed asks what we have done to reduce the division into the labour market. What we have done and which is important, which is also something that the Swedish business community is asking for, is to ensure that more people receive the education necessary for them to be able to get to work and take one of all the jobs that are vacant. We are building up training courses so that more people will be able to train as carers, child nurses, plumbers, construction technicians, mechanics and all the professions where we need more people to work. We are also making a very large-scale extension of qualified vocational training. In addition, we invest heavily in housing, so that people can move to where jobs and education are. We have made a major renovation of the infrastructure, where we invest a lot in railway maintenance. We have also set aside large amounts of money for a large infrastructure plan that will be presented in the spring. What do we do to shorten the care queues? Here we have invested a lot of resources in health care. Among other things, we have invested money in maternity care, but also in child and youth psychiatry. Now we are making the biggest care effort in modern times. I would have liked it to have happened earlier during the parliamentary term, but since we inherited 60 billion in deficits from the time Jakob Forssmed worked in the Government Office, it has not been possible until now in this budget. But it is a very comprehensive effort. In addition, we are investing in older housing in particular in the housing policy programme that the government launched in the budget two years ago, if I recall correctly.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-116	Mr President, I would like to One reason I dwell on this is that I wonder why people should believe in you. The healthcare queues have thus increased dramatically during your time. Magdalena Andersson says that it has not been possible to remedy this before. You abolished the queue billions, which seriously focused on the care queues in Sweden. It was your first action that you took when you took office. Was it absolutely necessary to do so? Compliance with the health guarantee has gone from 89 to 76 per cent in these years. It's about the care queues. Why should we believe you when it comes to the labour market? Trainee jobs, your greatest promise, now you're dropping. This has not worked. They would reach the groups outside the labour market. The state-of-the-art standby jobs you promised are so few and so modern that you hardly know if they exist. It's kind of post-modern emergency work. This is how I can continue in area by area. Care for the elderly was not mentioned in the Prime Minister's government declaration. You've got $12 million for the care of the elderly in case prevention. That's good. But there is no perspective for solving these problems.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-121	Mr President, I would like to Trainee jobs were intended for young people with upper secondary school degrees. What has happened in these three years is that this is a group that is now getting jobs in the regular labour market. And it is foolish to have labour market policies for young people who already have jobs. As far as queue billions are concerned, there was a rather broad perception in the Riksdag that it did not work. It was there just to polish the statistics. There were some interventions, but those with more complicated care needs were not supported. That's not how we're gonna use our money. Therefore, now that there are resources, we are making the biggest medical effort in modern times. Women should be safe when they are pregnant, our elderly should be safe even when they have complex needs and we invest heavily in child and youth psychiatry. Too many young girls don't feel well and don't get the support they need. We'll make sure they get it.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-123	Mr President, I would like to Last week Stefan Löfven presented his fourth government declaration as Prime Minister. There was a lot of things there that everyone can agree with: It should pay off to work, the care should be there when you need it and organised crime has no place in our society. These are just a few general requests for the country's permission from the country's Prime Minister. Today it is Magdalena Andersson who is presenting the government's budget proposal for the fourth time. Then the policy should move from fluffy words to concrete figures in excellark. But the difference between the solemn numbers and the tables is great. There is a lack of focus and priorities here. In this budget, there is no big deal. There are no fundamental reforms here, as Emil Källström pointed out. There is not even a serious analysis of Sweden's most basic and difficult problems. On the other hand, there is something else, namely a lot of money to spend. It is 40 billion a single year – an election year should be added, if someone had not understood it. Then this will grow to 60 billion and 70 billion coming years. I agree with the Minister for Finance that the Swedish economy is doing well right now. We thank the international boom for that. Tax revenues will then be high in a country with high taxes. Unemployment then falls in a country with a large export industry. But we have all been in this situation before. Some of us remember the happy 80s and then the it-yran around the turn of the millennium. But then we must also remember the crisis years of the 1990s with 500 % interest, the bankruptcies of the cyber-crash and, most recently, the global financial crisis. We really know that no good times last forever. We also know that it is in the good times that we must equip ourselves for the bad times that will come. Nevertheless, the government chooses to implement the largest expenditure explosion since the introduction of the modern budgetary framework – higher spending than in decades and less savings than in previous booms. And virtually all serious assessors warn against this very situation. The government is equipping itself for election years, but it does not equip the Swedish economy.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-131	Mr President, I would like to The government's driving fast, as the analogy has become, and it's driving without a seat belt. It may go well, but alarmingly many economists do not think so. Professor John Hassler, who previously led the Financial Policy Council, says: We are gassing more than our car can actually handle. Lindbeck Assar is on the same track. You gas up and you say, "How fast and nice it goes." But you do not look at the long-term structural problems that exist. It does not happen that every day I refer to what the former Minister of Finance and Prime Minister Göran Persson have said, even though he is a foreigner. He says: If the economy should decline, then it will be a strong position for public finances. My first fundamental criticism is therefore about what the government is doing. The government is careless and invests everything that there will never be a crisis and recession again. On the contrary, my second criticism concerns what the government does not do. In the budget, there is no point in how jobs should be increased, how exclusion should be broken or how decades of failed integration should be turned into cohesion. Instead, we are faced with an incalculable plot of subsidies for genealogy, for electric bicycles and – best – for Bolund's beaver safari. It is also about new and higher subsidies, increased taxes on jobs, on companies and now even on ordinary long-term savings. The lack of policies for more jobs becomes painfully clear when the government cancels its own flagship venture, namely trainee jobs. This is our most important election promise, said the Prime Minister in August 2014. After three years and SEK 600 million, we now have the result: 52 jobs – SEK 11 million per job. It is such a monumental waste of taxpayers' money and patience. Mr President, I would like to The economy is doing well, but society is not doing well. The examples are many. Childbirth care is in crisis, and the medical queues are growing again. Rape reports get high because the murders have become so many. In my Sweden, one of the real core tasks of the state is to solve murders and hunt rapists. Too many Swedes live in spite of the good times on grants instead of their own work – to be precise, there are 892 000 people – and it takes nine years before even half of the new arrivals have got some kind of job to go to. At the same time in Sweden, we literally throw out immigrants who work in Swedish companies. Soon the only possibility to actually stay in Sweden seems to be that you can prove that you cannot support yourself. This is a headless policy. Sweden is being torn apart and becoming more and more divided. It threatens the equality, the cohesion and the whole belief in the ability of the political system, which is a Swedish nobility mark. At this point, the government is pushing its policy firmly to the left. It is an irony of fate that the Left Party would probably never have had as much influence in a government as it has now had outside, with economic-political veto rights. Magdalena Andersson sounds more and more like Ulla Andersson, and that is a bad sign. Sweden should now focus on clear reforms that address difficult problems. I would like to mention four areas. Firstly, unless the core functions of the state are strong, society will become weak. If the police aren't respected, gang crime will win. In fact, this has completely incalculable consequences. Secondly, integration is our destiny. Many mistakes have been made for a long time and by several governments. There are many of us who have reason to be humble about this. That is why we now have a common responsibility to do the right thing. But it is not possible to solve integration problems by keeping quiet, closing your eyes and not talking about them. They do not disappear because they express platitudes that are, in our country, competing not with low wages but with knowledge! When there are tens of thousands of people in our country who do not have that knowledge at all. However, it does not help to point the finger at people who have come to our country and now actually live here. Every human being is basically an asset with full responsibility for himself and shared responsibility for our society. Then you shouldn't shout that everything is going to go to hell anyway and that it's fucked, because it's not at all. We own our own destiny in Sweden. But we must proudly stand up for the society we have inherited in common and make demands on everyone who lives here to care for and develop Sweden. We must demand that everyone makes an effort and does the right thing. You shouldn't commit crimes, not tax fraud, not tax fraud. The voters should also demand us in here to openly and honestly discuss how we rebuild confidence in Sweden as a country of both rights and obligations. It's cracking right now. Thirdly, safeguard the work line and our Swedish entrepreneurs! Nothing is so important for Sweden's future as to reward what creates work in successful and growing companies. Yes, we need simpler jobs for those who can work but lack education. We need simpler jobs for that family's children to grow up in a home where the parents go to work and not to the social services. Above all, however, we need more advanced jobs – jobs that not everyone really can do at all. Or as a good friend said to his sixteen-year-old, who, like mine, would choose high school program: Choose what the heart is filled with – as long as it includes mathematics, computer science and Chinese. We need a little more of that attitude in Sweden. Finally, we must rediscover something really important: politics cannot and should not do everything. Some things are simply more important than other things. Politics must focus and manage its core tasks really well, and the government is now doing exactly the opposite – investing in everything but misbehaving the most basic. Mr President, I would like to The problems in Sweden are great, but I am convinced that they can be solved. Doomsday prophets in the 1990s were completely wrong, not because the situation was not serious but because we finally got into the collar and did what had to be done. So I'm an optimist. There is reason to be worried in Sweden, but there is no reason to be paralyzed by anxiety. Only we can solve our own problems, and we have done so before. Now it's actually time again.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-151	Mr President, I would like to The former party leader of the Moderates stated when she resigned that the problems of the Moderates will not be solved only by a change of party leader. Instead, she believes that Moderates' problems are moderate politics. But when I hear Ulf Kristersson it is clear that after three years of opposition, the Moderates stick to the same old politics that they conducted for eight years in government. It is a policy that led to increased gaps and a government deficit of SEK 60 billion. However, since Ulf Kristersson became a member of the Moderate Party leadership, there have been three reviews: I was going to ask you a question about the last point. That is what you did in the special opinion of the Committee on Finance in June, Ulf Kristersson. You threatened with a motion of censure if the government did not withdraw three tax proposals. This is a dangerous path that risks leading us back to the order that existed before the 1990s crisis – and which created the 90s crisis. It is clear that it is easy in this House to find hopeful majorities in order to increase spending or reduce taxes, but it is more difficult to find majorities for responsible financing proposals. That is why we have an orderly and concerted budget process in the Swedish Parliament. It has served Sweden well, but now you and the Swedish Democrats want to throw it overboard. What does Ulf Kristersson think it does with confidence in Sweden's public finances and the Swedish economy if hopeful majorities push through tax cuts and expenditure increases according to the order you have now created?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-156	Mr President, I would like to First of all, the eight years of alliance meant fundamental changes in Swedish politics that even you yourself have not dared to restore, Magdalena Andersson. You talk a lot about it – you pretend to be against the job tax deductions and draw one conclusion from it: now you can finally reduce a single tax, namely that for pensioners. But you dare not raise taxes for all those who go to work during the days as much as you would like. The reason is that it worked. Everything speaks for the fact that it worked. Sweden had the world's highest taxation on ordinary incomes, and we reduced that taxation. Now we need to lower the tax rate for the world's highest-taxed low-income earners if more are to enter. You know that this is basically the right policy, but you are prevented by the Left Party from pursuing that policy. I am not ashamed for a moment that we had Europe's most well-managed public finances during the worst crisis since the 1930s. No one does everything right, but we did really well.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-159	I must say seriously and honestly that the Finance Minister's entirely new interest in budgetary rules is fascinating. There is a single living finance minister in this country who has actively and brutally violated the practice that existed, and her name is Magdalena Andersson. She deliberately broke out of the budget a tax issue – lifted out of it against better judgment – and allowed a new majority to take a different decision. The Minister of Finance knows exactly what I am talking about; no one else has tried this at all. Then a measure of harmony was created when we realized that that wasn't good and that we shouldn't do that. We went into a budget procedure investigation that seemed to agree – until the other day, when the Social Democrats suddenly and without warning do not want to agree that we should have tight budgetary rules that protect the budgetary process. If you protect the budgetary process on your side, Magdalena Andersson, we will do so on our side!
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-161	Mr President, I would like to There is a big difference between what happened in the Chamber in 2013 and what you did last spring, 2017, Ulf Kristersson. It is that Social Democrats, who always take responsibility for public finances, stopped a tax cut. You wanted to debt the entire Swedish people to lower taxes for those who earn the most. We strengthened public finances. We would never have done this if it had weakened public finances, because Social Democrats always take responsibility. Why don't we move on in the Budget Process Committee? What it does is cook a little bit, a few small holes in the hull, in terms of the budget process, while what you did in June was tearing up and making a big hole in the bow. You opened up to hopeful majorities by imposing, with the threat of censure, tax cuts and increases in expenditure. That is to break completely the overall and orderly budgetary process. What will this new way of managing the budgetary order mean for confidence in the Swedish economy?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-164	Mr President, I would like to If the Finance Minister seriously believes that you want regulations that both sides should live by – stable rules of the game that mean that we always have protected and honest budgets where income and expenditure are followed up – you have the last chance to change to a position that allows us to believe in you. Until then, we won't believe you. If the Social Democrats and the Swedish Democrats agree together on such a matter, you can agree on all sorts of strange expenditure issues as well. Moreover, it is not the case that what we did last spring broke a single budget issue at all. We quietly but clearly pointed out that this government is a minority government. If a minority government is not tolerated by the majority in Parliament, the minority government has problems – not Parliament. You chose to comply. You did the right thing.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-166	Mr President, I would like to For those who dislike change, a review of the latest Moderate economic policies can be reassuring. It consists of a display in old-fashioned proposals for tax cuts that primarily benefit high-income earners and discourage active climate policy. The Moderates have obviously not learned from their past mistakes that led to government deficits and eight years of down-priority environmental policy. For example, the party opposes the transport sector paying more of its environmental costs – this despite the fact that both the European Commission and the OECD in their reviews of Sweden's environmental policy point to the transport sector as one of the biggest challenges for Sweden in achieving our climate goals. Rather, the Moderates are actively trying to counter the work of road wear and air taxes. In addition, as a cream on the moderate emissions mash, the party wants to lower the petrol tax. They may now also want to speed up Swedish roads, which increases emissions even more, and impose taxes on trains. It may seem remarkable that the Moderates ignore the acute situation facing the world, but in reality it is only following the same priorities that the Moderates always seem to have made: The overriding political goal in all situations is reduced taxes. What stands out is that the Moderates describe their proposals as opposites. For example, they are talking about reducing the tax on them with the lowest income while knowing that the said tax reform gives more to those who have more. In their latest budget motion, the Moderates claim that it is an important principle for the polluter to pay. We agree with that. But then they put forward a policy that will make it difficult to achieve environmental objectives. With this response to this challenge, they seem to oppose the proposed measures. In which case do the Moderates think it is reasonable that the polluter should pay more in Sweden? And what exactly in your economic policy will bring us closer and achieve the environmental and climate objectives?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-172	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say quietly that as long as there are some in Parliament who always want to raise all taxes and who never care how this affects companies and entrepreneurs, I am proud to be the guard who always works for the opposite – the guard who stops tax increases, protects entrepreneurs and protects people who want to work. Someone must also take on the watchman's task. The second is that I think Janine Alm Ericson is making a wrong description. During our reign, an endless effort was devoted to doing things that were effective environmental emission reductions, i.e. effective efforts that would not impact specifically on Swedish competitiveness but function internationally. The environmental degradation is, as Janine Alm Ericson knows better than many, genuinely international. Then it is a great deal about contributing to innovation, technology and international agreements. It is about doing things that seriously have long-term effects and not things that systematically impair Swedish companies and Swedish people's opportunities here. I really do not like what is going on in a number of countries now. In the United States it is very clear, and this is also found in European countries. The policy goes in there and tries to use clearly political means to protect domestic sectors and businesses. That's not good. Most reasonably thought-out liberals in all kinds of constellations understand that this is a poor long-term development. We're not gonna do that. But it's quite another thing to actively and deliberately go in and worsen for Swedish companies, to introduce a flight tax that impairs the ability of Swedish companies in particular, to introduce bonuses – malus in the way that you intend to do and aimed at Volvo and to use resolution fees aimed at banks in Sweden. It is bad policy, which drives businesses out of the country without favouring the environment at all.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-177	Mr President, I would like to I notice that Ulf Kristersson wants to protect a lot, but this is not about the environment. I would like to talk about green tax exchange then, because you were the only party that did not support the Green Tax Exchange investigation in the 1990s. You led the government that interrupted the successful green tax exchange that has made Sweden a leading country internationally. This tax shift was not meant to stay at the low level where you interrupted it but at a high level. It would have reduced emissions more and made our economy more competitive. Now you want to make the same mistake again if you come to power. I would have liked to have seen a big green tax exchange during this period, but we inherited 60 billion in deficit from you and your colleagues, Ulf Kristersson. We first had to close this deficit. In conclusion, when we talk about green tax exchange, can't the Moderates please stop talking like they cared about the environment at a high level when they really do it at a low level?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-180	Mr President, I would like to On the contrary – we care about the environment very much. But we don't have your basic starting points. We believe that technology, innovation, market economy and freedom are also important for the environment. Then we understand that not everything solves itself automatically. My good friend Emil Källström usually points out that green tax exchange means raising taxes on certain things and lowering taxes on other things. It does not give carte blanche to use the environment as a pretext for increasing the tax on everything. I think that you are weakening your own goodwill by always ending up in a company that ignores what will happen to companies that create jobs and tax revenues and also creates the technological innovation that also ultimately makes the environment very happy. You should be in better company.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-183	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Ulf Kristersson is threatening with the Left Party. For a moderate, economic equality is as serious as an allergy shock is for others. I still think you gave yourself a nice title, Ulf Kristersson: guard against economic equality. It can be nice to be moderate. I thought I'd bring up the ceiling of the health insurance. We are pleased that this increase has come about, because income-related insurance is important for safety but also for the Swedish model. We want income-related insurance – in this case health insurance – that provides financial security and can be trusted. But the Moderates don't think so. Rather, they feel that more people will now be sick. For them, increased sickness benefit is equal to increased sick leave. So the Moderates mean, and believe in full seriousness, that people who earn $5,000 a month are sitting at home on the edge of the bed in the morning thinking: "Aha, now I get a 50 more than the last time I was sick, so I stay home today and get sick from work! I think this says most of the things about the view of the Moderates. You said the same thing when the precipice was abolished. Sickness rates would increase when politicians were no longer allowed to decide how long people would be on sick leave. But sickness rates decreased. You said the same thing about the unemployment fund when it was raised. Then more people would be out of work. It was the other way around. I think most of the things I'm referring to show you what kind of human sight you have. But you were not content to note that more people would now be sick out of malice. You also called insurance very deliberately for contributions. I wonder why. Why do the Moderates consider health insurance to be a contribution? Why do you distrust people in this way and say that they will be sick out of spite? Why do you think that people get sick from being able to feel financial security in the event of illness?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-188	Mr President, I would like to It is no more difficult than this: with a government that always wants to raise taxes and that has such incredibly good help from partners to always raise taxes, someone has to take on the ungrateful but important task of stopping this. It is a kind of economic policy cleaning task we have. It can not only be people who want to raise taxes and take people's money away from those who always dominate Swedish politics. Someone has to say, it's basically your money. We think you know better than politics what you want to use your money for. We have great respect for the fact that you have to give up some money, because we have common important matters to attend to too. We are humbled by the fact that it is your money we take to our common tasks. We do not mishandle this money. We are keen that the money that you add to the common is spent as well as it is at all possible. There's no free money. It's people's hard-earned money we're talking about. The fact that you on the other side do not understand this is not news to me. It's better for a lot of other people to understand exactly this. Let's go back to the sickness allowance. I think you're speaking against better judgment, Ulla Andersson. But I think you're a little better off than you're suggesting on what we've learned in the last few decades. We know today, and it is well documented, that it is a combination of financial incentives, regulations and support that make people leave health insurance and go back to work according to ability. This is well documented. No one stays home just because there is a sickness benefit that has been raised or has been reduced. But overall, more people will go to work if it pays better to work than to be on sick leave. It is well established that it is in this way. This does not mean that an individual is abusing this, but the systems should be sustainable over a long period of time. And there were obvious problems, which we corrected.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-194	Mr President, I would like to Most people understand that one day everyone can get sick and that one then needs financial security. But this does not seem to the Moderates to understand. With a precision acuity, they have proposed savings of SEK 4 1⁄2 billion this year on sick people. I think it seems rather that the Moderates see as their task to mishandle sick people. When Ulf Kristersson was Minister of Social Security, he said something that was very symptomatic for a moderate: I think mentally ill people should stop doughing at home on the couch and go and work instead. Such statements show how you in the Moderates view our common insurance systems and sick people. It is precisely that when the ceiling of health insurance is raised that people are going to get more sick and be at home says a lot about your view of humanity. In fact, I think that income-related insurance is worth defending. People should be able to be sick and be able to feel financial security. The Swedish model is well worth defending.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-197	Mr President, I would like to I rarely lose my speech in here. But this is deeply unworthy. I never said that. If you, Ulla Andersson, have read this in some Communist language, it was wrong already there. I would never say that. I have deep respect for people who are mentally ill, but I want them to come back to work. This is just deeply unworthy.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-198	Mr President, I would like to It's a bit of an art in politics to take credit for what works well but turn away responsibility for things that work less well. In this respect, the Minister of Finance is no exception. The fact that we are in a boom is apparently the credit of the government. Of course, it goes against the expert authorities, not least the Konjunkturinstitutet, which explains this with quite other, mainly global, factors. Let's break down the numbers a little bit just to get perspective. In a boom, GDP growth is strong. The total value of goods and services produced is increasing. That's good. But if you see it per capita – GDP growth broken down by person – there are quite different figures. The fact is as follows. GDP growth per capita is less than half as high as GDP growth in general. This means that more than half of our GDP growth is explained by an increased population. This is not due, for example, to technological achievements, innovations or higher productivity in general, but, in short, to an increase in population. Of course, Bnp alone does not say anything at all about the actual prosperity of an economy. Bnp per capita is also not a perfect measure, but at least it says something about actual prosperity. And in this connection Sweden has had a sad development. This applies not only to the present government but also to the previous one. Let me take another example. We can look at what is called consumer real wages. This is the wage trend that employees have had and which is adjusted not only for inflation but also for taxes. It is therefore the actual purchasing power of employees. You have to go back to the austerity package of the 1990s to find such a weak development in consumer real wages as we are experiencing at the moment. So this is happening in the midst of a boom of fire, when wages should, if anything, increase. This is, of course, explained by tax increases and tax increases on ordinary people's labour. Police officers, principals, dentists, midwives, miners and garbagemen are rich and count as high-income recipients according to the government. But if you have a family to support and perhaps a housing loan of 2, 3 or even SEK 4 million to be grazed by each month, the margins will not be excessive. Mr President, I would like to A while ago, I and several others in this House sat on a parliamentary committee to examine the so-called surplus target, which is a key element of the fiscal framework. The government wanted to abolish it altogether in order to spend more money today at the expense of future generations. I was totally opposed to this, but a majority in the committee eventually landed in a sharp reduction in the ambition of the surplus target. Despite this decline and despite the boom, the government will not be able to reach the surplus target during its term of office. The explanation for this is, of course, unfunded reforms. You simply spend more money than you have. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that late in the day we managed to put an end to the government's plans to proceed with even greater tax increases for ordinary wage earners and for small entrepreneurs in general. I must say that I am astounded by the statement by the Minister of Finance on the deterioration of the 3:12 acquis, which is the framework governing the possibility of paying dividends in relation to wages. According to the Minister for Finance, this would only affect those who hang at Stureplan. I have many acquaintances who are self-employed and small businesses. Believe me, they work like animals. They can basically never take a weekend or vacation, and they have neither time nor desire to hang out at Stureplan. Even if they did, they do have every right in the world to do so. It is possible that the Minister of Finance is misquoted. If that's the case, I'd like to give her the chance to correct it. If that is not the case, I think she should apologise to the hundreds of thousands of small businesses around the country who are working like animals for their businesses and creating jobs for other people.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-208	Mr President, I would like to Today, more than half of the unemployed are born abroad. This fact itself reminds us in an extremely flagrant way that we have carried on and that we continue to pursue an extremely irresponsible immigration policy. The government is trying to give the impression that we have gone to the minimum level of the European Union, but the fact is that we remain at the top level. We have tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands, of people who live illegally in Sweden and who the police have the task of expelling. The lack of resources for this is one thing. It does, but it's not just about resources. It is also a question of political governance. Just a couple of subway stations from here, there's been a manifestation going on. People who reside illegally in the country manifest for their right to stay in the country despite decisions to refuse. What do you think sends out the signal that representatives of the government, high-ranking ministers, are going there to show their support? Even the responsible police officer says: Of course we could have carried out what is called internal foreign control, but what would it have been like when representatives of the government, who are, after all, the police's employer, are in place physically to manifest against the policy of one's own? We must get a responsible immigration policy in place. Let me make it clear to those who are stupid enough to believe that it is between those who want open borders and those who want closed borders that the border should of course not be closed or open. It shall be controlled. If you are highly qualified labour immigrants or immigrants in some shortage occupation, the border should of course be open. If you are an asylum seeker from Denmark – or Finland, as at the latest – it should of course be closed. It's no stranger than having a front door to your apartment or house. Even if we get this in place with a new government, we have major challenges in the labour market. It is not something that can be cut off in statistics with the help of some creative accounting, which has otherwise been the social democrats' parade in labour market policy. The employment agency is to be closed down and replaced in its current form by completely different actors – private and others. It needs to be opened up to competition. The inefficient and extremely costly integration programmes are to be closed down. We need to get real apprenticeship systems in place, where those who do not have a high school degree should be able to combine work with studies to complete their degree. This must be made attractive to the employer and, above all, to the small company. We are going to reduce taxes on labour considerably. I will come back to this when we present our own draft budget, Mr President. We will restore the RUT deduction and preferably develop it further, for it is only in the social democrats' imagination that there are less worthy jobs. Above all, we will link transfer and social security systems to citizenship. It is not reasonable for the citizens of other states to be supported by the Swedish taxpayer. Mr President, I would like to What the Social Democrats and the government are doing to Swedish welfare is directly shameful. In an extremely dirty and cynical game, an entire industry has been taken hostage during virtually the entire current term of office. This imminent attack, on the one hand, on free enterprise and, on the other hand, on the freedom of choice of citizens, is in parallel with employee funds. Good, popular and demonstrably well-functioning schools will be forced to close down. It is completely ignored that some 340 000 schoolchildren who, along with their parents, have chosen a school will not have that school left. Moving on to this proposal, almost every other health centre will also be threatened with closure. The cynical thing is not that you would think this. In itself, it is only bad politics, something that we are now used to. The cynical thing is that you don't really think this way, but you still push the question as a concession to the Communist Party because you want to retain power for everything in life. To those who are concerned about this, I can only say that this proposal will not pass through this House. Not on my watch!
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-217	Mr President, I would like to In August, the bourgeois parties announced that they now agree that they should legislate here in the Swedish parliament to lower wages and that people should have lower wages. When the bourgeois parties presented this proposal, Oscar Sjöstedt was very enthusiastic about this. Legislation on wages is a great departure from the tradition that we have in Sweden, where it is not politicians who set salaries. In the Swedish labour market, it is the social partners who negotiate wages with each other. This is how the Swedish labour market model works. In practice, this proposal is a first step towards phasing out the model that has served Sweden and Swedish employees well for a very long time. For me, it is obvious that the people who come to Sweden as new arrivals will adapt to how it works in the Swedish labour market, rather than that we should adapt the Swedish labour market model to new arrivals. However, legislation on reduced wages is difficult to describe as something other than adapting the Swedish labour market model to the new arrivals coming to Sweden. My questions to Oscar Sjöstedt are: Why should we adapt the Swedish labour market to new arrivals rather than new arrivals to adapt to how it works in Sweden? Who really benefits from it?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-221	Mr President, I would like to I will not stand here and defend the policy of the Alliance. That would be really weird. However, I note that the proposal put forward by the Alliance is very similar to the one we have been pursuing for many years. We call it an apprenticeship. Why are the Social Democrats against it? Our proposal is that those who do not have a upper secondary school degree should be able to complete their upper secondary school education in combination with work. I don't think we need to reinvent the wheel every time here in Sweden. If we look down the continent and see which countries have the lowest youth unemployment rate – Germany and Austria above all – we see a strong correlation with the fact that in those countries there are very many who have taken their upper secondary education degree within the framework of an apprenticeship programme. In Sweden, I believe that the proportion of young people who have studied in upper secondary school under an apprenticeship programme is somewhere in the order of 7%. In Germany it is 44%. I don't think we need to reinvent the wheel every time here at home, but we can look at the continent and see what works there. I will not defend the policy of the Alliance. They'll have to do that on their own. However, I can see that their proposals were very similar to our proposal. If they could balance some pieces, there could be a majority in this House, and then we could push it through. In our proposal, it is clear that this should be linked to education that leads to the completion of your upper secondary school degree. As far as the labour market figures are concerned, there is a very large gap between those with upper secondary school degrees and those who do not. Then we have to help those who do not have a high school degree, because there unemployment stands out quite clearly and clearly compared to those who have a degree or have an even higher education – there we have very low unemployment and not as great challenges.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-225	Mr President, I would like to I am not asking Oscar Sjöstedt to defend the policy of the Alliance. I ask Oscar Sjöstedt to defend his own statement. Oscar Sjöstedt was very positive about this. It is clear that the Swedish Democrats do not agree that it should be Swedish terms and salaries that apply to the Swedish labour market. This is something that everyone who works in Sweden should be very clear about. Oscar Sjöstedt only criticism of the alliance parties' proposals was that it did not want to legislate on lower salaries for even more groups than newly arrived and young people without a high school degree. Oscar Sjöstedt felt that we should legislate for many more people to receive lower wages, such as the long-term unemployed in sparsely populated areas. Who else is it, Oscar Sjöstedt, who will receive lower salaries in Sweden?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-228	Mr President, I would like to I do not know whether the Minister for Finance misunderstands anything. If you have a salary today, you are not up to begin a role in an apprenticeship. It seems really weird. This is for those who don't have a job, i.e. have zero pay. What I have criticised – and I stand by this criticism – is that the Alliance has proposed a labour market policy with different regulations for different groups depending on their origin. In principle, I think that is the wrong way to go. It is unfair to do so and say: If you were born there, it gets the regulations, but you who were born there get a completely different regulations. It's supposed to be the same. That was my criticism. Today, there are not a lot of young people who do not have jobs, not only in rural areas but also in urban areas. No one gets a lower salary if they are unemployed and start completing their upper secondary school degree in the framework of an apprenticeship programme. It's totally baroque. I don't understand that. The Minister of Finance must have misunderstood.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-232	Mr President, I would like to Although Oscar Sjöstedt chose not to mention it in his speech right now, the Swedish Democrats have previously distinguished themselves as the party in front of others who want to cut the budgets of the municipalities. It would be reasonable for the Swedish Democrats to talk about what in health care, school and care they think the municipalities should cut back. But it is not only welfare that the Swedish Democrats want to weaken, but also environmental and climate policy is one of those areas. Here, however, you are more exactly what you want to cut off, i.e. 8 billion. Among the 8 billion they also go down on the level of detail that they want SMHI to get rid of 11 million so that they will no longer be able to analyse the climate effects for Sweden in a proper and scientific way. Maybe I should be surprised. But we know from the past that if there is something that unites those who do not want to take the climate issue seriously, it is denial. If something threatens denial, it is information based on science. One of the main slogans of Sweden's democrats in their anti-environmental policy is that we should not do more in Sweden. They seem to have forgotten that Sweden has previously acted as a good example and thus influenced environmental policy far beyond Sweden's borders. Given that the Swedish Democrats do not want Sweden to take the lead, I still have to ask Oscar Sjöstedt if he thinks it was wrong that Sweden introduced a carbon tax in the 1990s. Does Oscar Sjöstedt think that even then we should have sat back and pretended that climate change can wait? Do the Swedish Democrats really have any proposals that will make us in Sweden take responsibility for our own emissions?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-236	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we do not propose any cuts in municipal or county council welfare. This week we were able to see an example of the types of costs that result from the policy of the Green Party and the government. Nacka Municipality bought three apartments for a man, his three wives and 16 children for SEK 14 million. These are the kinds of costs that do not arise with our policy. That is why we can make such cuts. I suspect it was in the government's internal budget negotiation that the Green Party has pushed too much. It should cost as much as possible. The most important thing is that things cost, that it is expensive. What happens on the other end is not as important. But what you push in is important. I suspect that the Green Party has left a rather large mark on the government's environmental budget. Well, that's not entirely unreasonable. There is a grant that wants to go in and buy lots of forest from private forestry, to which we said no. This is an example where we want to cut back on what Mr Alm Ericson calls the environmental budget. Why on earth should you do this? The private forests are very good and take huge responsibility. They probably take more responsibility than the public and the state can do through Sveaskog, for example. The forest farmer who sits on 200, 300 hectares of land, may have had it for generations and perhaps plans to have it for further generations takes huge responsibility. Why would you spend a lot of money on that? It's really unnecessary. However, we want to invest more than the government in things that we believe work long-term, research in different ways, energy research, and so on. This also applies to climate aid where we can help less developed parts of the world to overcome the problems. I think I'll give you more. I'm more interested in output than input. What you press is not as important, but what comes out at the other end is the important thing.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-241	Mr President, I would like to I still feel like it's hard to know who's going to get part of the welfare and who's not going to get it in Oscar Sjöstedt's Sweden. It's hard to find out who's going to live and who's obviously not going to get it. What I notice most in the answer is that the Swedish Democrats seem to lack their own proposals on how Sweden can take responsibility for its own climate emissions. I am happy to ask that question again and look forward to an answer.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-243	Mr President, I would like to We are quite clear about that. Welfare must be linked to citizenship, end of story. We can't make it any easier than that. Welfare in Sweden is conditioned by being a citizen of Sweden, item closed. I can't get any clearer. I do not believe that all climate policy must always be done with tax increases. Is that really the only instrument available? There's a lot we can do. I'm sure there are some things we can agree on. But I will not agree to a line where it is absolutely impossible to live in the countryside in Sweden. I don't buy it, absolutely not, in no way. That is why, in our budget, we are going against the rather heavy increases in petrol taxation that I suspect the Green Party has pushed through in the budget negotiations internally in the government. We're against it. We're not gonna turn the car into a class issue. You should also be able to live in the countryside.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-246	Mr President, I would like to First, I'll turn to Ulf Kristersson. You wouldn't have said dough at home. However, you would have said that people should not be at home if they are mentally ill, and they should have their routines. I just wanted to say that. ( FIRST VICE TALMANN: I know that, Ulla Andersson. However, if you ask for a reply, you may direct it to the speaker. ) I'm gonna do it now. The economic policy of the Swedish democrats is rarely reviewed. It's lucky, because it doesn't stick together at all. They also pursue an economic policy that increases inequality and undermines welfare. The Swedish Democrats are proposing huge reductions in preschool, care and care, maternity care and children's school. This year, the reductions correspond to the salaries of 24 000 nurses or teachers or the equivalent of the salaries of 36 000 nurses. It is people who are really needed to help the sick, the elderly, and children. Next year, the reductions correspond to twice as many nursing salaries. Why? Because the Swedish Democrats prioritise tax cuts. These are not low tax cuts proposed for top ten. The chairman of the Swedish Democrats' own party earns about SEK 100 000 a month. In the policy of the Swedish Democrats, a tax reduction of SEK 46 000 per year is proposed. An income of $100,000 a month is a very large income. A nurse needs to work about four months to raise the same amount of money. A tax cut of SEK 46 000 corresponds to about two months' wages for a caretaker or a nurse. Looking at the distribution profile of the Swedish democrats' economic policy, you can see that the top ten comes out very well and are the big winners. My question to Oscar Sjöstedt is: How does it feel to give the equivalent of two months' wages for caretakers and nurses in tax reductions to a person who earns $100,000 a month and that this is financed by large reductions in care for the elderly, health care and school?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-253	Mr President, I would like to It doesn't feel very much at all because it's not consistent with the truth. It's not like that. Of course, if we had proposed substantial tax cuts for individuals who earn $100,000 a month, we would have done so. It's not like that. Ulla Andersson is making up the story. That's not true. That's a lie. On the day we run that policy, I will stand and defend it, but right now we are not. It's fiction. It is really quite remarkable to go up in the speaker's chair and make up policies that you then argue against. It's really weird. It's amazingly weird. In any case, once again, we are not proposing any cuts in welfare. On the other hand, we are saving on a much more restrictive immigration policy than that of the government with support parties. That's where we can make a lot of savings. As far as civil servants are concerned, we want to invest a lot. We're worried. If we look at nurses, we talk about at least 10,000 and probably more– I can't figure in the head– working either in a completely different industry or abroad, for example Norway. They have been asked a lot: Why did this happen? Why aren't you working on this? Are you tired of your profession? No, but I've been tired of working conditions, say some. When it comes to the police, the government says we're going to have another police academy and more training places so we can have more cops. But the training places we have are not able to fill because there are too few people who are looking for the work environment to be substandard. That's where we're shooting at huge resources. It is about billions of dollars and wage developments, working hours, the opportunity to influence their own situation and so on. The right to full-time work for those working in health and social care is one example. The government doesn't put resources into it, but we do.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-257	Mr President, I would like to This budget makes the greatest historical effort on health care. We are very happy about that. In the Swedish Democrats' budget, government grants to municipalities and county councils are being reduced, which leads to significant savings. One consequence of your budget, if you were to count your savings, is that you would throw out people who live their lives in this country. I hardly believe that anyone believes that will happen in reality, but it says a lot about how you view people. I'd suggest Oscar Sjöstedt walk in his neighbor's shoes. It is usually a good way to understand other people's living conditions. As I said, you are proposing major reductions in preschool, school and care because you cut so much into the state subsidies that exist. The great savings you make are air and simply cannot be achieved. And if you were to implement them, it would hit individuals very hard. You are doing this to finance major tax cuts for the richest in society.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-260	Mr President, I would like to I have, as I am sure Ulla Andersson and everyone else here, talked to virtually every journalist today. I was asked by everyone: Can you say something that is good in the government budget? Yes, I can. Large resources are being allocated to health care, maternity care in particular. That's good. We will support this in our option. Of course, we should not throw people out of the country, except those who do not behave. If I don't behave, I mean commit crimes. They're going out. Otherwise, you don't have to worry that we're gonna throw out some people against their will. On the other hand, we're supposed to be in control on the border. You shouldn't be able to get into the country anyway. We should have a completely different immigration policy – much more restrictive and with a controlled border.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-262	Mr President, I would like to I heard Oscar Sjöstedt speaking negatively this morning about the special salary tax for older workers. I share that criticism. The difference is that in the latest budget we have dealt with in this Parliament presented by Oscar Sjöstedt, he has accepted this tax increase. I believe that the Swedish Democrats' budget deserves to be examined. It is problematic in many areas. Many good efforts can be made in police and defence and everything possible, but it is based on savings that cannot be realised in headings 13, 14 and 25, on major reductions in municipalities and on major reductions in labour market measures. You can't think people away. You cannot imagine that they simply disappear and that you can make these savings. It doesn't work that way. Another area of expenditure where the Swedish Democrats collect money is Category 12 Economic security for families and children. I understand that you are saying no to the multi-child allowance introduced by the government last year, which cost 300 million. However, you are making further reductions of 1 billion on child allowances, even though you are not proposing any reduction in child benefits. I take it that in your Sweden there are fewer children. I was counting on this, and there are about 87,000 fewer children in Sweden. It is clear that you can wish for another population with fewer children. The same is true of parental insurance, where there are also major reductions. One might wish for another population, but it does not work that way in the budgetary context. We have these children in Sweden, but in Oscar Sjöstedt's world they do not exist. I think it's strange.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-265	Mr President, I would like to I will start with the last one mentioned: parental insurance, that is, parental allowance. Is it reasonable that it is designed in the way it has been so that people who have recently come to Sweden can directly use it? I don't think so. That's where we can make a lot of savings. As I said in my speech, transfer systems and social security systems are to be linked to citizenship. End of point. It won't be any easier than that. This is how it works in a lot of countries, and so it should work in Sweden too. If you set foot in Sweden, you have the same right and access to the entire welfare as the citizen of the country. That's not how it's supposed to be. There should be a clearer link with citizenship. Jakob Forssmed mentions areas 13 and 14. These are the expenditure areas for the establishment of newly arrived immigrants and for the labour market and working life. Please explain to me which of the multi-billion-dollar initiatives we are cutting down on in these two areas that work, which are effective and lead to results and which are therefore socio-economically defensible. I can't find one. That is also the answer to why we are cutting them down. The entire mission of establishment, multibillion dollars, is devoured year in and year out. I guess it was the alliance government that orchestrated this once upon a time. The latest figures show that in the order of 4 – 5 percent go through the entire start-up assignment and then come out to work at the other end. The other 95 - 96 percent do not. How can you defend investments of tens of billions of dollars annually on something that doesn't work? I understand that the Social Democrats do, because they like this, but I do not understand why the Christian Democrats want to do it. Find something that works and that leads to jobs and that is socio-economically effective – fair enough, then I buy it. But it's not like that.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-269	Mr President, I would like to I do not think it has escaped anyone that the Christian Democrats are extremely critical of the government's labour market policy. We want to close down a large number of the programmes that do not work, and we want to do this again in essence. We want to invest more in vocational training than the government does, and we want to make a large number of efforts that have a better effect. But that is not my point here, but the point is that parts of the savings that you propose cannot be realised or are based on you thinking away people who are actually here. In the case of child benefits, there should be 87 000 fewer children in Sweden in a couple of years. How are we gonna do that? How will this saving be realised in real life, in reality, if you are supposed to gain power in Sweden? That's what this is about. The second question is of course: could it even be that children of people who have been granted a residence permit in Sweden also need their parents to connect with them? Can one imagine that there is such a situation when refugees come to Sweden and receive a residence permit?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-272	Mr President, I would like to After all, the budget is forward-looking and not backward. We cannot talk about the fact that we in the budget want to do this with people who are already here. This is aimed at the future, as of 1 January 2018 in this case. I missed to answer Jakob Forssmed's question about the special salary tax for the elderly. It will not be included in the budget that I will present on 4 October, I promise. But if we are just as critical of the government's labour market policy, can't you talk to your friends about Category 14 and put together a joint motion, including a downscaling of the Employment Service and these other things that we've been talking about? Talk together, and we'll probably vote for that motion. Then it becomes reality; then it goes through. It's just about you and your friends getting along. Then we can start doing things seriously.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-275	Mr President, I would like to Electric bikes, solar cells, air taxes, bonuses– malus, Climate Klivet, Industriklivet, Havsoffensiven, beach cleaning, night trains, fuel exchange, parental homework, family reunification, free art and read-write-count guarantee – the government's budget today is the largest investment ever made in a green modern community building. It is a budget for hope and faith in the future. Sweden is doing well, and we now have very good conditions to lead the transition and take international leadership for the climate. We are getting closer and closer to the goal of becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country. At a time when uncertainty and undemocratic dark forces are spreading around the world and natural disasters are affecting millions of people, the need for green policy is greater than ever. The climate is the great destiny of our time, and climate change is not waiting. However, the climate issue is not just a threat. The green transition also offers opportunities for the world and for Sweden to change, create new jobs, develop the economy and build more sustainable and people-friendly cities. For the transformation to take place, it must be possible to travel fossil-free. It should be easy and easy to charge the electric car, both at home and away. And it will be cheaper to buy an electric bike, so that you prefer to leave the car at home. Of course, the flight should be involved in bearing its climate costs, as any other means of transport does, with a flight tax. And an environmentally sound car should be cheaper to buy than an environmentally bad car through our bonus – the Malus system. In green society, we take advantage of nature's resources, such as the rays of the sun, the drops in the sea and the trees in the forest. We have to clean up after old sins in order to feel good, now and in the future. We continue our offensive efforts for the seas, climate and biodiversity. And we take our global solidarity responsibility, especially for those affected by climate change, and propose the largest ever aid budget. Mr President, I would like to School is the basis for building a sustainable and democratic society for future generations. Therefore, school development has been one of this government's priorities throughout its term of office. Now we see that it bears fruit. We fully fund the School Commission's proposal for an equal school. We also already see the impact of previous investments as the results of knowledge are now being raised and more and more students are leaving the ninth grade with passed grades. The Green Party wants a world without borders, where everyone should have the opportunity to move but no one should be forced to escape. Today, unfortunately, reality is far from that world. But we work hard to ensure that the children and young people who came here on their own in 2015 will have a safer and better life in Sweden. The government spends additional resources on reuniting more families, on care for young unaccompanied minors suffering from mental illness and on allowing them to stay and continue living their lives in the municipalities they have rooted in, even when they turn 18. The new inhabitants of Sweden are an important part of building a future Sweden stronger. But for that to happen, they must feel good and have a good reception. The proposals presented by the government today are important pieces of the puzzle in the construction of a safer and more humane Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a long and proud history of being an industrial nation. We'll stay that way. That is why we need to prepare for the future. Next year we will take the first steps to support Swedish industry in the transition to zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2045. However, we are not satisfied with an ambitious industrial leap. We are also setting up a delegation for the circular economy that will review future modernisation needs in order to continue with the green construction of society. It should include people throughout the country, both in big cities and in rural areas. In order for people to live where they want to and work where they want, we invest in better public transport and road maintenance. At the same time, we will expand the internet in sparsely populated areas and move out government agencies and service offices. Mr President, I would like to Although we live in a time of uncertainty and that dark, undemocratic forces that spread in society, around the world and here in Sweden, we will stick to our ideals and build on our dreams. The ambition is that Sweden should be a modern pioneer country. This budget is a clear example of this.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-287	Mr President, I would like to I wonder one thing, Janine Alm Ericson. Your Minister of Finance was just standing in the pulpit where you now stand and competed with the Swedish Democrats for who was least inclined to adapt the Swedish labour market in order for newcomers to get a chance. How does it feel for an environmentalist? I also wonder how the Green Party and the government can continue to persevere in the anti-intellectual project of banning important parts of Swedish welfare. It is now becoming increasingly clear that this is precisely the end of the criticism of profits in welfare, entrepreneurship in welfare and so on. The only way for the left-wing side to overcome the perceived problem is to introduce such far-reaching regulations that in practice we ban well-functioning non-profit and private actors who solve problems here and now in school, health care and care. It would be reasonable to back down and take the hand that the Alliance has extended throughout this term of office, namely: let us agree on even tougher quality criteria than those currently in place for all providers of welfare services, both in school and in health care, both private and public and non-profit. Surely it is not part of the Green Party's policy to effectively ban small, well-functioning non-profit and private actors in welfare?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-291	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I did not perceive it as the Minister of Finance competing in the way that Emil Källs empty wants it to appear. In this budget, which the government is presenting today, there are many reforms that will make it easier for those who have come to Sweden recently to enter the labour market. Several of the initiatives have also been carried out by the Minister of Finance in the past, when we have talked about employment policy. When it comes to profits in welfare, Emil Källström makes it sound like there are no problems, but you can just drive straight on. We are probably quite agreed on a lot about how we can increase quality, control of it and that we need to look at how the systems should work. But even when it's done, we see that there are huge, unwarranted profits from schools that then fail to deliver as they should. That is why we think it is important to present a proposal now in order to get to grips with it. The Green Party, on the other hand, wants to be very clear that diversity is worth protecting and that the non-profit activities that exist are both strengthened and have the opportunity to develop. It's very important to send it. I think that the Centre Party's appeal to be able to collect tax money that is intended for our children to have a good schooling is sad. It's out of my mind.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-295	Mr President, I would like to The Centre Party and the Alliance are all in favour of the well-functioning small and large, private and non-profit options that today have long queues of future school students who want to secure a place. It is appreciated actors in home care and care, who people choose freely over municipal actors, simply because there is a choice of choice with a flora of different actors. The Green Party was a long time in favour of this development. And we do not agree that we should agree on the new, tougher quality regulations. Janine Alm Ericson and her government colleagues have spent a full term of office not lifting a finger on that plane. Instead, they want to move forward with what was the Reepalus investigation and which will now become a bill. We all know it's going to fail. There will be nothing at all, even though it could have led to quality. That's too bad.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-297	Mr President, I would like to It is truly sad that the bourgeois side does not want to do anything about the great profits that are being collected from tax money. When choosing a school as a parent, you do not think that you should have to check that the children receive nutritious food instead of water and crisp bread. That's where we have some work to do, you might say. I think it is very good that we are now showing the ambition that these excess profits should not exist. However, it is not – as Emil Källström tries to make it sound – that we intend to ban any activity. There is a proposal for a profit cap and, of course, we hope that there will continue to be a variety of actors, both non-profit and others, who act responsibly on this market.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-300	Mr President, I would like to Nothing is more important than our children. Nothing is more important than giving all children the opportunity to grow and learn things in the Swedish school. Your future is not determined by your background; it is an important starting point for how we build our society. In the school debate it is a tangible silence from the government. Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin list of proposals is very short and thin. I'm afraid that's because the Alliance managed to reverse developments in the Swedish school. We have seen that the results are now turning upwards. I'm one of those people who don't think it's good enough. I think that the results should be increased even further. We need to do more to ensure that even more children learn to read, count, and write in school. We also need to do even more to reduce the gaps that exist there. It is obvious that there is a satisfaction in the government with how the school works. I'm not happy. We from the Liberals propose compulsory schooling for new arrivals so that those who come from another country and are 12 to 13 years old can go to school longer so that they can learn the Swedish language. We suggest that the best teachers should work in vulnerable suburbs. We propose that responsibility for the school be transferred from the municipalities to the state – this is to ensure an equivalent school throughout our country. Your future should not only be determined by your background, nor should it be determined by which municipality you grow up in. From the government and the Green Party it is very quiet on the issue. How come it's so quiet? Why is there nothing happening in the Swedish school?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-305	Mr President, I would like to I'm very surprised. After all, it is anything but quiet from the government when it comes to the school issue. We have worked with it earlier during the term of office, and one of the first things we did was to set up a school commission to look at how you work to develop the Swedish school and to increase equivalence. The school commission issued its opinion a while ago. In this budget, we are fully funding these proposals. In addition, we present a count-write-read guarantee so that all children will bring these basic knowledge with them as soon as they complete third grade. During our term of office, we have strengthened the teaching profession, made efforts for school centres and introduced several other reforms in this area. If you are interested in school politics, I find it very difficult to believe that you could have escaped what the government is now doing in the field of school. I would like to ask Mats Persson if he should examine his vision or hearing. In the field of school, a lot of things are actually happening.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-310	Mr President, I would like to I think I'm looking at other things, Janine Alm Ericson, than environmental-partisan press releases. I'm looking at what reality looks like. Then I see a great need to reform the Swedish school. I see a great need to ensure that the newly arrived young people who have come here – often eleven-year-old boys – are allowed to go further in school. I see a great need to ensure that responsibility is transferred from the municipalities to the state, so that we can guarantee an equal school throughout the country. I see a great need to invest money so that we can get the best teachers in vulnerable areas. I see a great need for an increased focus on order and order. I see a great need to increase the focus on knowledge in the Swedish school. There are no proposals from the government that raise the Swedish school. You are voting against the proposals put forward by the Liberals. Why are you so satisfied with the Swedish school?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-317	Mr President, I would like to I would not say that we are satisfied with the Swedish school. There is no turning around the development that liberal school policy led to over eight years in a period as short as three years that we have had so far. There's a lot more to do. On the other hand, the reforms carried out at the beginning of the mandate are starting to bear fruit. Knowledge results are increasing – just what Mats Persson wants – and that more people will be eligible when they leave the ninth grade. We think that is very important. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that at the beginning of Mats Persson's speeches it sounds like we have quite similar basic values when it comes to all schools being good schools. It shouldn't matter where you come from, but where you want to go. I hope we can take this on board. But again a great deal is being done in the school field right now, although Mats Persson may want to see other proposals.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-321	Mr President, I would like to Janine Alm Ericson mentioned family reunification in her speech. I would just like to remind you that it is the Green Party that has been involved in putting forward a bill to Parliament that keeps young children separate from their parents. That's the first thing. The second is that I have to admit that I still have a little more faith in the Green Party than I have in socialist parties in certain respects. The Green Party sometimes argues that you are on the side of companies and jobs and on the side of the non-profit sector. I therefore wonder a little about your priorities in this budget. I wonder about all your big efforts that you are now presenting on subsidised elmopeds, free public transport, free genealogy, reduced price of crown deer reconnaissance and wolfgylning. It's the easiest thing in the world to award bonuses, do things for free and make up names for these. But this must be put in relation to all the tax increases on jobs that you pushed through at the beginning of your term of office. These tax increases are now paying for what is now said to be free. You presented a special payroll tax for older workers. It was criticized to pieces by the government's own expert authorities. It increases the costs for municipalities and county councils that now want to hire experienced doctors and social security secretaries or keep them in the business. It sends a lead-heavy signal to people to take out old-age pension, despite the huge profits for individuals and society if more people work a few years extra. This is your last budget. You say that you have a space of over 40 billion, but you could not spend 11⁄2 billion on removing the payroll tax for older workers. You could not spend 0.25 billion on re-imposing the tax reduction on donations to non-profit organizations working with needy people; instead, you chose other investments. Do not come and talk to me about tough priorities when you have such a huge scope for reform at your disposal! Just tell me why you chose everything that you are talking about now rather than restoring these tax increases!
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-328	Mr President, I would like to If it were so simple– I know that the Christian Democrats are trying to have a certain peak in their climate and environmental policy – that you just make up the pake t and put the nicest names on them, you can wonder why on the bourgeois side you were not a little more inventive when you had the chance yourself. When it comes to jobs and entrepreneurship, I would like to take this opportunity to say that we think it is important. We are now presenting Industrikliv, and this represents a huge opportunity for the industry to grow, develop in a competitive way and at the same time meet the environmental and climate goals. As I said here in the speaker's chair, it is the great question of destiny of our time. The climate can't wait. That is why we must ensure that we cooperate with companies and with non-profit organisations. Everyone in society who wants to contribute to solving the problems must be helped together. I look forward to the Christian Democrats' draft budget, which perhaps contains some packages to meet the challenges we have in the climate area.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-332	Mr President, I would like to We can get out of the climate zone. That's not what I said. Reduced VAT on nature guides may be important, but it does not solve world problems. You choose this over measures that allow more elderly people to remain in the labour market, for example. It's a choice you make. You are moving forward with a tax reduction on union fees costing almost 3 billion. It's a choice you make. It is not about the climate or the fate of the world; it is about you spending 2.7 billion on that reform instead of ensuring that older people can remain in the labour market, rather than making sure that we do not increase the tax on donations to non-profit organisations. You have 44 billion at your disposal, and you are making these priorities. It is clear that we too can come up with different bets and different names, but that is not our main focus. Our main focus is to ensure that people get to work and, of course, that we also meet the major challenges we face in the climate and the environment.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-335	Mr President, I would like to The two areas mentioned by Jakob Forssmed are, of course, those that have returned during the entire parliamentary term in the hearings, and one might well ask why the Christian Democrats believe that the Green Party should implement a Christian Democratic policy. However, I would like to come back to the fact that it would be so easy to make proposals on the basis of proposals. Of course, reduced VAT on nature guidance does not solve the world's environmental problems – we understand that too – but we think it is important to do one thing at a time, small steps all the time. There are also huge reforms here, and so there are things that are more everyday. Many people are asking to come out into Swedish nature, and I think it is good that we are now ensuring that rural areas can also live up to this proposal, for example, because what foreign tourists, for example, are asking for in Sweden are natural experiences. Then I hope that we can continue with the other proposals forward.
i-5GKirwo8oPyjXLzJXCNBge	Mr President, I would like to Congratulations, by the way, on the fine test result among the Moderates in Malmö! Having said that, Mr President, I would like to point out that these are good times now, but we are doing too little to deserve further years and decades of success, development, prosperity and prosperity in our country. My ambition and that of the Center Party is to bring together responsible majorities in order to implement the reforms for more jobs and a better functioning housing market, as we all know, is needed. Sweden needs to roll up its sleeves. Mr President, I would like to This is the last autumn budget that this government presents during its term of office – a term that has left much to be desired. In the coming year, the Center Party and the Alliance will work tirelessly to ensure that within a year we will be able to stand here and present an alliance budget with investment in job-creating small businesses throughout the country, security, police, defence, sustainability, green transition, education and innovation, welfare and functioning healthcare. An election victory for the Alliance and new leadership for Sweden is exactly what our country needs. Mr President, I would like to When I look at Sweden today and the developments in our country and now intend to describe it, I will not engage in black painting. I don't want to, and if I wanted to, I probably wouldn't be so good at it. On the other hand, it is right in such a debate to highlight the clouds of concern that lie over our country and point out a way to get around them. We are standing on top of a boom, and problems you have during a fiery boom, they really do. There are probably also a number of other problems that are covered behind the generally good times. But problems that exist when everything points in the right direction, when the good times are here, you really have to make sure to solve them, for they will remain increasingly there when times get worse. The most important of these is the almost total division that is emerging and worsening in the labour market. The number of long-term unemployed is increasing in Sweden. The number of registered employees at Arbetsförmedlingen is increasing. Those who do not get jobs are to a painful extent people who have a history of long-term unemployment or illness, who are newly arrived or who otherwise have a weak position in the labour market. I would like to point out here that it is not these people's own fault that they do not enter the labour market. It is the systems and the labour market that we have constructed through political decisions, among other things, that keep these people out. A lot of people want to work but don't come in despite good times. I would argue that the government has done a great deal, almost everything, wrong in the situation we are now in. First of all, the government is throwing gasoline on the fire. We are in a situation of extremely expansionary monetary policy and negative interest rates. Most sectors are at high speed. Then this is not the time for an unwarranted stimulus policy. It is in this situation that the government makes up its own projections for GDP growth and unemployment figures. It is in this situation that one is far more optimistic than any other serious assessor, and that is also why one takes a reform space that is astoundingly large and far beyond what other serious assessors consider reasonable. It is not responsible, and now, in the course of the debate, we have seen it black and white when the Institute of Economic and Monetary Affairs gives its opinion on what has been presented today. They maintain that there is a much more pessimistic view than the government has, for example, on the development of unemployment figures. This is not good. It is not a responsible way to calculate its projections in its proposals. Secondly, Magdalena Andersson uses the money that you make for expensive and bad politics. Some of the money goes to make it more profitable not to work through more generous transfer systems. A large part of the space disappears in making small investments to the right and left on policies that sound good on paper but do not have an effect in reality. This week we have received reports on how the government miscalculated over 30 billion, which is largely due to spending money on investments which, when faced with reality, are not needed or not used, not least in the context of labour market policy. Thirdly, Mr President, we are losing another chance of carrying out the long-term reforms that the reasonably-minded know that Sweden will have to launch sooner or later. We have a labour market, a housing market and a tax system that is largely outdated and in need of reform. There is no lack of projects for a responsible government to tackle Sweden's challenges. Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying to see that more and more people are raising the issue of Sweden's future issues. We are now enjoying the fruits of wise, difficult but necessary reforms in the 1990s and 2000s. It is about the Alliance's tax cuts on jobs and businesses together with, among other things, the restoration of welfare, for which the Center Party and the Social Democrats, in particular, took responsibility during the 1990s. If these structural measures had not been taken, together with others, Sweden would today have been a Greece with worse weather. There are simply a number of things we have to do. This is where we lay the foundations for the coming years and decades of Swedish success. Firstly, Mr President, the whole of Sweden must work. It is not good enough for the number of unemployed to increase during the boom of fire. Obstacles must be dismantled, and we need a stable and predictable policy that gradually makes it more beneficial for both the simple entry jobs and the most highly productive workplaces where we compete with the whole world. For Sweden, it is bad both when rural small businesses do not start or develop because of salty taxes or complicated rules, and when Nordea chooses away Sweden as a country to have its base in for further expansion. All jobs are needed throughout the country, as are all companies. Secondly, Mr President, it is not good enough for companies to opt out of Sweden because of an excessively rigid housing market, i.e. that expansion takes place elsewhere because it is easier to find a place for new employees. Here we need to take proper action for more mobility. It is good that construction continues to increase. It began to increase during the Alliance, and it continues to increase during this government. That's good. But mobility in the housing market must also enter the existing stock with a better use of this. Thirdly, Mr President, we need a tax system which significantly lowers taxes on jobs and businesses and which should be simple and transparent for people and businesses. This new Swedish tax system must also be characterised by green tax exchange, where reduced taxes on jobs and companies are exchanged for tax increases on environmentally harmful emissions and consumption. After three years of left-wing government, emissions in Sweden increase. The Green Party always talks about its efforts but never about its results. There aren't any! It's no wonder. Ulf Kristersson was previously thinking of raising taxes on everything that moves, raising taxes on jobs and companies, not least young people's jobs and small companies, more than raising environmental taxes. There is a need for more results and less talk in environmental policy. We will continue to put forward proposals for non-toxic everyday life, clean seas, a sustainable transport sector and green fuels both for heavy traffic and for aviation. A lot of this requires that we use Sweden's green gold, that is, the forest. Then it is not possible, as the Green Party wants, to lay a dead hand over more and more of the Swedish areas, which will contribute to Sweden's and the world's green conversion. Mr President, I would like to There are many issues you do not have time for during a budget speech. The coming year will be marked by investments in security in police, defence and justice. There will be important investments in green industries and schools, welfare and health care. But basic for us to afford all of this is that we take the right structural approaches. It has been a long time since we seriously made the Swedish economy work better. It's time for us to get in the driver's seat.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-360	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that Annie Lööf went out the other day in social media and crazed an initiative from the Climate Centre. In her municipality of residence, bus transport is completely fossil-free thanks to a contribution from the Climate Centre. I hope that we can agree to keep it even when the Center Party has realised the benefits. Emil Källström often talks about the importance of moving from words to actions. I agree. That is exactly what the government has done. We have gone from words to deeds. We have gone from words to the biggest investment ever for a green community. I apologise, but I have to read from a list because there are many bets. We have gone from words to doubling the climate and environmental budget. We have gone from words to the biggest investment in the protection and management of Swedish nature, to investment aid for solar electricity, to the industry's long-term investment in reducing emissions in the Swedish base industry, to the investment in proper expansion of charging infrastructure for electric cars, to the green fuel change for cars, to bonuses – malus systems that make it more expensive to buy environmentally poor cars and cheaper to buy the better cars, to green cities as well as ecosystem services and children's outdoor environments, to the Climate Centre, as I have just mentioned, and to more than a thousand measures at municipalities, companies and organisations. Climate and environmental issues permeate development cooperation. Allowances corresponding to almost two years of Sweden's emissions are cancelled. Furthermore, there is reduced VAT on repairs, and aviation has to pay more of its environmental costs. My list is much longer. But I ask Emil Källström : What is in the list that should be removed?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-364	Mr President, I would like to It would have been interesting to hear Janine Alm Ericson read the full list. The question is whether one of the points is about the fact that it has gone from reduced emissions under the alliance government to increased emissions under the red-green government. That is the main question. Are we getting results or not? I note, unfortunately, that Sweden is currently not delivering. Janine Alm Ericson often says she believes and hopes that it will change and correct, that this government too will at some point achieve what we did, namely to pursue a policy that is accompanied by slowly but surely reduced emissions. I hope the government gets there, but I want to see it before I believe it. It is easy to point out what should be removed from the environmental policy and accompanying budget of the Green Party. First of all, there is a similar attitude on certain points regarding the prudent increase in certain environmental taxes. There is room to raise environmental taxes in Swedish politics. The Center Party has put forward many proposals for some years that the Green Party has not yet bought or implemented. We were going to fix it after the next election. Something we disagree about is what you do with the space that pops up when certain taxes are raised in the tax mix. We want every penny to be brought back into the economy by lowering taxes primarily for small businesses. I have said it many times before, and I say it again, that the Green Party increases the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship many times more than it increases the tax on environmental emissions. The Green Party spends a lot of money to interfere with ownership and lay a dead hand over large parts of Swedish forest against the will of forest owners. It is poor environmental policy and fundamentally unwise policy, given what fundamental rights should exist in a market economy. This means that we cannot use Sweden's green gold for climate change. It's bad, but it can be changed.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-369	Mr President, I would like to We take it very seriously that emissions are increasing. That is why these proposals are being tabled. It is not only us but also the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that makes the assessment that the climate commitments will be met. What if during its time in government the Center Party actually performed some of the things that were talked a lot about doing. For example, the climate and the environment budget was not doubled. You didn't get in place a bonus – Malus system. That's where the list can be made long. It is interesting, however, that Emil Källström addresses forestry policy and biodiversity. I guess that's what he criticized. The planetary limit that is exceeded most is precisely the one on biodiversity. With a lack of biodiversity, agriculture faces enormous costs, and it is more difficult to meet the climate challenges. How does the Center Party, Emil Källström, think that Sweden will achieve its international and national commitments on biodiversity? How will your budget reflect responsibility for and loss of it?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-373	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes environmental objectives must be set against environmental objectives. That is quite obvious. If we are to overcome the climate crisis, the most important environmental issue of our time, I and my party are clear that it would be good to use more of the Swedish forest raw material to create the fuel of the future, to phase out fossil oil in everything from heavy transport on the ground to aircraft in the air. It is an obvious opportunity for Swedish environmental policy and for job-creating entrepreneurship. It creates values all over the country. The Center Party is clear about this. The Green Party claims to be capable of everything, but the results so far have been that there has been nothing of anything. We see this not least because emissions are increasing with environmental parties in the government. It's bad.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-375	Mr President, I would like to Emil Källström talks about his desire for government power in 2018. I understand that. There's a lot of people who want to. He's also talking about responsibility for public finances. That's what the Center Party usually does. I thought we should look at what it looks like in practice. In addition to leaving behind a large deficit of 60 billion and carrying out unfunded tax cuts in a boom, you also did for taxpayers terrible bad business. Let's look at Nuon, for whom you were responsible. This is the most expensive deal in Sweden ever. You bought lignite, and then Vattenfall was forced to write down SEK 50 billion. That is more than the entire defense costs, ten times all housing allowance in the whole country or about the amount it would cost to give all children two additional child benefits each month for a full year. But the Center Party was not content with that. You also thought that the Swedish post should be merged with the Danish post and form Postnord. You can hardly say that postal deliveries work well after that, either in the countryside or in the city. It was also a very expensive affair. We gave away influence and decision-making rights, and now we need billions of ownership contributions as the Danish part goes with large deficits. I would like to ask you, Emil Källström : Are you satisfied with Nuon? Are you happy with Postnord? This was business that happened without the voters knowing it before the elections, so now I want to know: Should you do more of this kind of business if you come into government in 2018?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-380	Mr President, I would like to First of all, with regard to responsibility for public finances, it is worth noting that the Left Party took every given chance when it laid down its opposition budgets to burn away even more money than any other party. There was the greatest deficit, and if the economic policy of the Left Party were to prevail, we would have had higher public debt and generally worse position. Secondly, I do not feel very guilty about what company management at Vattenfall and Posten did. However, I draw conclusions from this type of state capitalism. I want to reduce the extent of state ownership. I don't think politicians should be entrepreneurs. That's where Ulla Andersson and I disagree. Ulla Andersson wants more government influence over sectors and industries and national companies. It is you, Ulla Andersson, who wants to play businessman. Sometimes you do bad business. I want politicians to stay away from this. I want to reduce government ownership. I want to reduce the government's regulatory powers. You want to increase it, and then you have to understand that this is exactly the kind of thing that leads to sometimes doing bad business. But you think it's good that the state owns companies, plays business and acts capitalist. This is the fundamental problem: the socialist view that the state should do everything at the same time. Sometimes it gets very bad.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-384	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party had the same financial savings as the bourgeois government during those government years. I would like to take another example. This wasn't the Center Party directly responsible for, it was the Moderates. You also sold parts of the car inspection to a venture capital company based in the Cayman Islands. However, this venture capital company did not have enough money to buy the company, so the government lent money – half the purchase price. But the Center Party was in charge during the Nuon affair. You're the one who bought the lignite. It was you who merged Posten and formed Postnord, and it cost taxpayers huge amounts. It was you who thought that the state should form larger companies and enter other markets. It wasn't the Left Party. We wanted to increase green investments in Vattenfall, not lignite investments. So, Emil Källström : Should you do similar business if you win the 2018 election? Should it continue to be this expensive with the Center Party in government?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-388	Mr President, I would like to But, Ulla Andersson, now you have to make up your mind! Was the problem that the government bought, or was the problem that the government sold? Now it seems that both things are problematic. I think I was quite clear– I think that one should wisely reduce government ownership, not least so that the next Minister of Economic Affairs can focus more on basic conditions for all companies rather than focusing on a few crisis-stricken companies. What am I supposed to say about this? If the problem is entrepreneurship and politicians playing shop, then we should stop doing that. But the Left Party therefore wants more of that product, and then it sometimes becomes bad business. I think we can take Swedish state-owned spirits production as a good example of what ownership policy should look like. When you get paid well for what is currently owned by the state, you sell. But you don't buy, as the Left Party wants, because sometimes it gets bad.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-392	Mr President, I would like to In Danderyd's News we can read about a Djursholmsbo who tells us how easy it is to own a helicopter. In Arbetarbladet we can read about Jakob in Sandviken who wants to be paid for the work he does. He is simply tired of working for free in the daily activities to which he is entitled under the Special Support and Service Act. So different are the living conditions of our country. While single parents struggle to make everyday life go together and the money to last the month out – a pair of new winter boots for the children then becomes an insurmountable expense – others may wonder whether to buy a new yacht again this year or a Porsche or two. While some are barking at the fact that the tax on the investment pair account is to be increased by as much as 37.50 for those who have 50,000 in the account – 40% of the increase is paid by top 10 – there are, in fact, other problems. But let us stay at these 37, 50, for 37.50 is roughly what the bourgeoisie proposes that wages be reduced by for those who have the absolute lowest wages. The difference is that the bourgeoisie wants to reduce wages by 37.50 every hour, every day, all year round. Long-term sick people today have to live with the highest tax on equal income, and their sickness benefit had not been increased since 2003. We simply see different problems in society. We live in a country where parts of the country have been betrayed by politics. Workplaces, neighbourhoods and suburbs have been left behind while the already wealthy in Djursholm, Nacka and Täby have received political support through extensive tax cuts and the introduction of new subsidies – excuse me, it's called It has received RUT and permanent ROT and has also retained all its interest deductions despite the abolition of the property tax for the 30 million villa. We should get away from a tax system rigged for the rich. Raising the economic standard for people living with a wallet that is empty before the end of the month and then forced to choose between noodles and noodles is about creating a worthy society. In such a society, I want to live. For the citizens, it is a question of raising subsidies, something they are in falsely upset about. I'd like to say to you, walk in your nest's shoes! So should those who propose a ban on begging. For me as a socialist and feminist, it goes without saying that the task of politics is to stand on the side of the single mother, of the long-term ill and of Jakobs. But the right wing prefers to give priority to the helicopter owner, because when high wage earners pay more taxes, they threaten with a motion of censure. When they are in power, they degrade the sick and benefit the richest. When the Left Party has negotiated the budget, our task has been to let equality go like a red thread through what we have done. Equality reforms are also feminist reforms. For us, it has been important to ensure that people who have permanently reduced working capacity, those who receive sickness benefit, are able to feel financial security. We have now again achieved an increase in the guarantee provision and the housing supplement and also a reduction in taxes. For those with guarantees, this can mean a total of SEK 840 per month. In addition, health insurance is strengthened by raising the ceiling, and the dental allowance doubles so that more people can afford to go to the dentist. That if anything is a class issue. Another class issue is the increase in the student allowance. In Hofors in my home landscape Gästrikland, only 27 per cent of young people go to higher education. Indebtedness and taking out student loans is too great a step for many people, for no one in their family has done so before. That is why it is important that it is the grant part of the study funds that is increased by SEK 300 per month. Nowadays, the first year of the language introduction program is the largest programme in upper secondary school. Giving those students the best conditions we can for them to move on to national programmes will be of great importance. Many of the students who go there will both learn a new language and study comprehensive school in a short time. A major investment of SEK 300 million per year is now being made. Each individual student should be able to meet where that student is. In addition, an investment is being made in libraries. Access will increase, libraries will increase, and more will be able to access the wealth of libraries. Knowledge and education are about power and a society for all, not just for a few. This summer has been a replay in many previous summers. We've seen how tough it is in childbirth. Birthing women and anxious parents experience insecurity, and midwives experience great stress. It shouldn't have to be like that. Childbirth should be safe, and there should be time for every woman who gives birth. That is why another major effort is now being made in maternity care. But the entire health care system needs more resources. Staff working conditions need to be improved. Those who work in health care should be able to feel that they have reasonable working conditions and influence over their work. Therefore, a total investment of 2 billion per year is now being made for those who work in healthcare. The work to meet mental health problems, among both children and adults, needs to be improved, and therefore a major effort is now being made on the work of primary care to meet mental health problems, but also on children's and young people's psychiatry and psychiatry. We have achieved many important, good reforms in this budget, such as a historically great investment in health care – the largest. But it is also reforms that make a difference to a great many people. Equality reforms are particularly beneficial for women. It reinforces welfare. This is what is done with us, but not with bourgeois parties, who want to raise rents, lower wages, attack labour law and play a business in welfare. However, there are areas where we do not get there, but that is something that the right is happy about. In fiscal policy, bourgeois distribution policy is virtually left in the wild. Sweden is today an unequal country. Here the gaps have increased fastest in recent decades. A major reason for this is that capital income has increased so sharply. According to Statistics Sweden, capital income was as much as 340 billion in 2015, and as much as 85 per cent, about 280 billion, went to the top 10– those who already have the most money in this country. They, in turn, earned as much from income from capital as from work and entrepreneurship. The fact that it pays to work apparently only applies to some people in the labour market. I was a single parent. This has meant that in many ways I have gained insights I would not otherwise have received. I remember the lump in my stomach when it was time for lunch at the end of the month or when the winter boots were worn out. My mother had to step in and help. By 2015, the maintenance aid had not been increased by more than SEK 100 since 1994. I can assure you that the costs have increased several times more than that. Now the maintenance aid is being increased for the third time this term of office. For children between the ages of 11 and 14 it increases by 150 SEK and for children between 15 and 18 by 300 SEK, for older children costs more. Free public transport is now also possible on summer holidays for young people, and the success of the summer holiday subsidy, i.e. free activities on summer holidays, is being extended and now covers all school holidays. And all six-year-olds in this country will be allowed to go to swimming school with their preschool class. Swimming skills and water habits should not be allowed to be about the thickness of the parents' wallet. This is how we build a better society for children and young people. That's what you do to us. Finally, Mr President, there is a failed Sweden left behind, where services are lagging behind, unemployment is high, the level of education is low and the employment rate is also low. It's about mills, suburbs and neighborhoods around the country. Now comes a long-term investment of 22 billion, because the task of politics is to give people opportunities, see problems and contribute to solutions. How to use this money should of course decide for yourself, locally; they know that best. This may involve a training centre, a service meeting point or support for the establishment of new businesses. This is what is done with us: equality, enhanced and expanded welfare, deductions for union fees and better living conditions for people, who will ensure that jag ob gets paid at work. With other parties you get helicopters to Danderydsbor.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-416	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes the ideological differences are evident in this House. When Ulla Andersson gives a brand talk about combating wealth and not poverty, it shows a very large dividing line between liberals and socialists. Liberals think that poverty is the problem; socialists think that wealth is the problem. When you pursue this rhetoric, as Ulla Andersson does, it becomes a little ridiculous in practice. We in the Liberals want to lower the midwife's tax. Then Ulla Andersson answers: You lower the tax for the rich. When an unemployed person, often born in another country, through the RUT deduction has the opportunity to get a job, perhaps because a midwife uses a RUT service, it is wrong because the rich are using a RUT deduction, although we all see that the positive effect of this is that someone who has been unemployed enters the labour market and gets a job. When Ulla Andersson gets through what is now on Parliament's table, that we are going to increase the tax on savings, I think I thought we wanted a society where we encourage us to save, not waste. Ulla Andersson justifies this by increasing the tax rate for the rich. In fact, we know that it is for those who have small economic margins and do not have an economic buffer that it is really important to be able to save and that it is they who should be encouraged to save. Did you know that a lot of people have to borrow money if they get an unexpected expense of 11,000 kroner? In that situation, sending the signal to them that saving money is not a good thing is very strange. Ulla Andersson, why do you think a midwife belongs to the rich in society?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-422	Mr President, I would like to In this budget, the money for maternity care is increased. This means that the midwife can have more colleagues, better working conditions and perhaps also access to the training she actually needs. Health insurance is also being strengthened. The Liberals' budget makes substantial savings on health insurance. There is a great risk that the midwife who is working so hard will actually become ill, and then she will be able to have a health insurance to trust. At least I think that's fair. But the Liberals even save more on health insurance than the Moderates do. If we look at the investment savings account, the tax increase is 37.50 per year at SEK 50,000. I can promise you, Mats Persson, that 50 000 SEK is very much money for many people, not least single parents, who are now receiving increased maintenance support. In the past, you have rejected them and did not want to approve the maintenance support investments that we have made. Let's see if you do it now. But at least that tax increase to 40 percent is paid by top 10. ISK will still be a very favourable form of savings, with 5-6 percentage points lower tax than other forms of savings. I would like to ask you, Mats Persson: Why do you save on health insurance? Don't you think people should be able to feel financial security when they're sick? I think that's very reasonable. And what will you do? Will you also reject these investments in health care, as you did before, when we made a major investment in the state grant to municipalities and county councils? Then you also suggested savings. In fact, for you, tax cuts – especially for the richest, because your distribution profile looks like – are always more important than investing in midwife's working conditions and being able to raise her salary. I think she's worth it: a significantly higher salary.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-427	Mr President, I would like to It becomes clear in such a debate that Ulla Andersson's entry into this is that when you lower the tax for ordinary people so that a midwife gets lower tax, this is evil. According to Ulla Andersson's rhetoric, when people keep more in their wallets and gain increased empowerment so that education pays better, it is a policy that increases the gaps and benefits the rich. For me, a midwife does not belong to the rich in society. To me, a midwife is the hero of welfare. Those who invest in education and training shall also reap the benefits of that training. It is very strange that the rhetoric of the Left is always about fighting wealth, not fighting poverty. The rhetoric always lands in the fact that a midwife is seen as a rich individual. In my world, a midwife is a person we're going to encourage and whose treasure we're going to lower. This is in stark contrast to the policy that Ulla Andersson represents.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-430	Mr President, I would like to When the Liberals talk about reducing tax, it is mainly the top 10 that gets reduced tax. In the budget we are presenting now, the midwife will have the right to deduct the trade union fee. 2.7 million employees will have to deduct the trade union fee. This, if anything, is important for influence over working life, good working conditions and good wages. But this is not what the Liberals want. After all, it was you who abolished the right to deduct, because you think it is only the employer who should have the power in the labour market and not the trade unions. I think it's very important to invest in maternity care. That is why we have pursued these efforts. In this way, midwives can get higher salaries, and that's what I think they should have – significantly higher wages. Why do you reject investments in municipalities and county councils that enable better wage development than before for teachers, preschool teachers, child nurses, nurses and midwives? I think that these efforts are a perfectly reasonable policy.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-432	Mr President, I would like to Let us dwell a little on the 37.50 that Ulla Andersson chose to mention. She wrote an article saying that this corresponds to two bags of cheese hooks for those who have 50,000 in their ISK account. Apart from the fact that it's called cheesebows, we can say that if you have initial capital – let's say you have 50 000 SEK – and then you save, say, 300 SEK a month for a long time, perhaps 40 or 45 years, to your pension it does not correspond to two bags. This corresponds to 3,280 bags if you have a normal yield. It is a tax increase of SEK 61 500. You lose that money in your pension. It is also welfare to be able to put away a little – to gnet up some money to create your own buffer. What the Left Party is doing is a little bit of a cheese hook policy: don't save, don't gnet, don't get better, don't take a boss job in the care of the elderly, don't work over in the emergency room or in social services, otherwise we'll hit with our tax club. Do something else: Eat a bag of cheese hooks! Start for everything in the world no company, especially in response to shortcomings you see in welfare, because then we will hunt you down. Do something else: Eat a bag of cheese hooks! This is the problem with Left policy. It's not about handing out bags here and now. We know you can do that. Sometimes you even distribute to the right recipient and to the right urgency. I'd be happy to admit that. But being able to do this tomorrow – when the Left Party policy has made fewer people want to work more, fewer people want to save and create a small buffer and fewer and fewer people want to start a business – doesn't seem to worry the Left Party, but it really should. My conviction is that in Left Sweden there are in the end only empty bags to distribute. My question to Ulla Andersson is: Can your policy defy the law of gravity? Does Ulla Andersson really believe that it is possible to hunt entrepreneurs and tax work and savings without any impact on welfare?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-438	Mr President, I would like to I like dialects. In Norrland it's called cheese hooks, just so you know, Jakob. Welcome to Norrland – a very nice part of Sweden! I'm a little perplexed about what you're saying. In fact, unemployment in this country is falling, and we look at the number of people employed in education, health care and long-term care, we can see that they have increased over these years. During your time, developments were quite the opposite. The vast majority of people who work in welfare – social workers, midwives, teachers, nurses and child care workers – realize that they need more co-workers. That is something we need to finance jointly, and we do so over the tax bill. If we want these professions to have higher wages, it is also in this way that we do it together. With your policy, they'll have to stress hard. They get so stressed out that they actually get sick. And then you cut into the health insurance. I do not think this is reasonable. I want a dignified society, where you can trust health insurance when you get sick. You should be able to get income related to your salary when you are sick, and I actually think that we need more employees in the important areas of welfare, because there are very many children, the elderly and the sick who need the support that the profession can provide. The investment savings account will continue to have lower taxation, and 40% will be paid by top 10. After your time in government, we actually have the least redistributive tax system in the EU's 15 core countries. An important factor is that you greatly reduced the taxation of the very richest, while the sick, the unemployed and the single parents were left entirely at that – they had to manage best they could.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-444	Mr President, I would like to So I am not against welfare efforts. The Alliance government provided more resources than before per inhabitant, per pupil and per patient in hospitals. Those were record levels. Yet you, Ulla Andersson, stand here and say that it is we who are responsible for people being sick. That we didn't do anything for single mothers is all wrong. All the single mothers who work got big tax breaks. It was on low incomes that we put in this. My party also made sure that we raised the children's share of the housing allowance on several occasions. It almost exclusively meets single parents. This is what Ulla Andersson knows. I have told her many times in this pulpit. Yet, she continues with her claims. Let me bring up the investment savings account and savings. Saving is important. We're not just talking about 37, 50. We are talking about signals: don't work, don't save! Don't bet on those things, but do something else!
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-447	Mr President, I would like to Maintenance aid was increased last time in 1994 before it was increased in 2006. That was before Jakob Forssmed's party came into government. During the time of the Christian Democrats in government, it was not raised once. Now it has been raised three times when the Left Party has been involved in the budget negotiations. Long-term ills, i.e. those who have permanently reduced working capacity, had not received increased compensation since 2003, before the Left Party got through increases. Jakob Forssmed knows that. Then you made an increase in the housing allowance for some. Sure, that's it. I've also said that was a good thing. However, the tax cuts you implemented favoured above all the top 10. You abolished the property tax. How much did a Djursholmsbo earn from it compared to a townhouse owner in Fagersta? The same is true of the abolition of the wealth tax. What happens when you just lower taxes is that welfare does not get enough resources and that inequality in society increases. It is not a sustainable development of society, I think.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-451	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a fantastic country. When you travel around Sweden, from north to south, there is a high probability that in large and small towns you will hear the story of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who during the post-war period have started companies that are still the dominant employer in the area. I myself grew up in such a place, Småland Markaryd, on the border with Skåne, where the e-pump manufacturer Nibe, based in the 1950s, today has operations. The company has sales on five continents. This is the story of how Sweden became rich. It is the story of enterprising people, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, who started businesses. But it is also the story of Swedes with a strong work ethic, who lived by the motto: Do your duty, demand your right! It is the story of how entrepreneurship, diligence and work ethic built Swedish prosperity. Mr President, I would like to It is a different story from that often told by Social Democrats about how they built our country. It is also the story of an equal society, a society that holds together and a society with smaller gaps. At least that's how we recognized Swedish society. But what we are seeing now are growing gaps. We see growing gaps between the one who has a job and the one who is outside. We see growing gaps between the one receiving school support from home and the one leaving school in the afternoon to support his parents at home. We see the emergence of a new lower class, where dependency on benefits is inherited from one generation to another. This is the breeding ground for the crime we are currently seeing in our suburbs. It's a society that's torn apart. It's a community where it becomes more important where you come from than where you're going. It's a society where your future is determined by your background. Mr President, I would like to In the middle of the boom, a group is growing in Sweden. There are 300 000 people who are outside the labour market but dream of being part of the community of the workplace. It is mainly young people who have dropped out of school and newly arrived immigrants who have low and short education. We in Sweden have for a long time, consciously or unconsciously and often under the slogan of jantelag, rationalized away simple and low-skilled jobs, not least in welfare. This means that the step into the Swedish labour market is a long way for this group. On the Liberal side, we propose more simple real jobs. This would mean creating new ways into the labour market. This would mean that the nurse and doctor could spend more time seeing patients than turning papers, looking for care places, or washing in nursing rooms. This would mean that more people would have the opportunity to get into the community of work. And that would mean that those who work at the core of welfare could be able to work with what they are trained for, as we let the professionals be professionals. Mr President, I would like to About this, about growing divisions and about the emergence of a new lower class, the government hears very little. Most serious of all is that we see very few concrete political proposals to break this trend. The red-green government is holding on to the Employment Service. It is an authority that very few trust and trust. Neither job seekers, companies nor municipalities believe in the Employment Service, but the government adheres to its Ampolitik as if it is the policy of the only way. The government refuses to see reality, where we are currently seeing the emergence of a new lower class. It refuses to launch reforms that really create ways for those who are currently outside and who are not in a position to take part in education. Of the government's efforts, it is usually only a thumbnote. It was 130 trainee jobs before this was closed. Of the extra services, there have been 41 real jobs. Rumor has it that more people have visited space stations than have been given real jobs in extra services. Mr President, I would like to This is not good enough. Sweden can do much better than this. A new policy is needed for more people to enter the labour market and for more people to be part of the community of work. We liberals think that a lot starts at school. If people who come to our country in their 10 to 12 years of age really have the opportunity to learn the Swedish language and learn other things in school, they must go further in school. That is why we propose extending compulsory schooling for new arrivals. We suggest that the best teachers should work in our exclusion areas. We suggest that there should be more focus on order in school. We do this because we passionately believe that the class journey begins in the classroom and because we believe that knowledge is power. If this is to be possible, it is not good enough that 300 municipalities do in different ways. It is not good enough that it is which municipality you grow up in that determines which school you get. Therefore, responsibility needs to be transferred from the municipalities to the state, so that the state takes greater responsibility for the school. Mr President, I would like to It is embarrassing to take part in the government's school policy. Thanks to the reforms of the Alliance and Liberals for eight years, we are now seeing school results slowly rising. But we're not happy. If every kid is to leave school with full grades, the ambitions must be higher. If all people are to be able to fulfill their dreams and become what they want to be, we must have higher ambitions than that. From the government's side, the answer is very thin. The government's reforms are very small and incorrect. Mr President, I would like to The government ring is partying like there's no tomorrow. The budget on Parliament's table is so expansionary that Sweden risks being brought into a situation of overheating in the Swedish economy. In a situation where the Riksbank pursues a very active monetary policy – even the repo rate is negative – Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson chooses to set fire to the Swedish economy. We do not yet know the consequences of this, but they worry me in the depths of my heart. What we risk seeing is the emergence of overheating in the Swedish economy, which means that the real estate market is crashing. The government is burning up the uncertainty that exists, not least in the housing market. There is a risk of creating a situation that has very long-term consequences for the Swedish economy. When you party as if there isn't a tomorrow, you know one thing: The Swedish people will have to pay the next day. I don't want to take that risk. That is why we will vigorously combat the policy that is now at the table of Parliament. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a fantastic country. Our prosperity has been built by entrepreneurs, by diligence, by diligence and by work ethic. What once built Sweden strong was that we made sure to keep our society together, that we had a high degree of equality and that we gave all people the chance. If we're gonna do this again, it's gonna take us not to do what we did before. We must see that reality has changed. The biggest change that has taken place, which is our common social problem, is that we have a group that is outside and does not enter the labour market. We have a group of people who have dropped out of school or who have come to Sweden without adequate education. There, the old-time solutions of classical Ampolitics do not work. Something new is needed. It takes real simple jobs to get them into the Swedish labour market. If we do this, we can break the emergence of a new lower class. Then we can make sure that Sweden stays together. Then we can counter the gaps we are currently seeing. Then we can ensure that Sweden is also in the future a country of prosperity to be proud of. We in the Liberals will fight for this. The budget on our table is moving Sweden in the wrong direction. It reinforces the gaps, does not see reality and does not dare to implement the reforms that the Swedish economy needs. This makes Sweden weaker in a situation where we would have to hold our society together and make our country stronger.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-468	Mr President, I would like to Now I did not hear Mats Persson talk about environmental issues. I think it is a pity that the Liberals do not profile themselves more on those very issues, because the Liberals are, after all, the best policy of the Alliance's parties in that area. One possible explanation, however, is that the party has given priority to the issue, even if the policy on paper is good. This is what it looks like when you look at economic policy. What the Liberals played in the failed environmental policy during the alliance period is hard to know. But in their defense, they needed to cooperate with the Moderates, who are opposed to almost all environmental reforms. This is not least clear in economic policy, where the Moderates still want a coal black, rather than a green tax shift. On the one hand, you are in favour of a better environmental policy. On the other hand, you are effectively opposed to proposals that we are putting forward. Even more curious is that a party that wants to profile itself as interested in the environment, as you do, is dropping out of the energy agreement and is turning a lot for nuclear power. Wind power is better than nuclear power, and the electricity certification system is the cheapest way to ensure new electricity generation in Sweden. Yet the Liberals are opposed to this and are now appalled by the closure of old nuclear power.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-472	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your praise! I agree that we have a very good environmental policy. But I do not agree with your reality statement – that the Alliance for eight years would have destroyed the climate. During the eight years of the Alliance's government power, Sweden's emissions decreased. How can such a thing be said? It has nothing to do with reality. The reality is that emissions decreased during the years when the Alliance was in power. I'm very proud of it. I think the Alliance did very good things during the eight years. However, that does not mean that we are satisfied or that we do not have to do more. We need to do a lot more. What we should do is really try to make a green tax shift, which the Green Party has not succeeded in in government. It will be cheaper to work and more expensive to release and destroy the environment. What you do is you sometimes make it a little more expensive to destroy the environment, but you never make it cheaper to work, at least not if you are going to review the years you have been in power right now. If we are to tackle the climate issue, which is one of the most important issues of our time, it is basically based on a shift in tax policy and a real green tax shift. There will then be lower taxes on labour and more expensive emissions. Is this enough? Not just. We need to do more than that. We need to invest in the cleansing of our seas and we need a policy that holds together to the full. But it must not be some kind of funding bingo. It is not the amount of funding and money spent on various measures that matters. What really matters is that climate emissions are reduced. They declined during the eight years of the Alliance. We see now that you are not doing as well as we did. I feel very proud of the policy implemented by the Alliance over eight years. And I am very pleased with the policy of the Liberals in this area. We stand for green tax change for real.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-478	Mr President, I would like to We can see that emissions also depend on the economic situation. The fact is that the alliance government left a huge gap as there were no proposals for reforms that would take us towards the emissions targets that Sweden has actually set. In addition, it also left behind a very large budget deficit. The alliance failed to reach either the fiscal or climate policy framework. There's a lot to be desired there. It is interesting that Mats Persson says that there are ambitions. I look forward very much to seeing them continue. But the question was, in fact, what is so provocative about us supporting the development of renewable energy in the future rather than the outdated solutions.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-480	Mr President, I would like to It is no secret that the Liberals believe that nuclear power belongs to the future. When it gets very cold in Sweden today, this becomes obvious. In recent years we have had situations where Swedish electricity production is suddenly not climate neutral. When we need electricity and heat, we actually vomit carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. This is because we have not expanded nuclear power. When the windmills do not spin and it is cold, we need nuclear power so that we can take responsibility for the climate. We stand up for this. We must ensure that we have a stable electricity system in which we can be sure that the electricity we produce takes responsibility for the climate and does not vomit out carbon dioxide. This is made possible by nuclear power. It is strange that other countries make completely different assessments. Other countries are investing in new nuclear power, because they see it as the most important tool for taking responsibility for the climate. We should do the same.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-483	Mr President, I would like to When the proposal for the reinstated right of deduction for the union fee was presented, which gives 2.7 million wage earners reduced tax, the Chairman of the Liberals tweeted: This tweet tells us most of the Liberals' attitude towards trade unions and employees' rights now. Liberals were involved in abolishing employees' right to deduct during their reign. Now there are proposals for its reintroduction. Apart from the fact that nearly 3 million employees receive reduced taxes, this helps to strengthen trade union organisation, which is important for working conditions and wages in the Swedish labour market. When the bourgeois government abolished the right to deduct workers' trade union contributions, it was retained for the contributions of employers' organisations. From a bourgeois perspective, it is obvious that only one side, that is, the employer, should have strength at the negotiating table. The liberals have previously stood up for the Swedish model but under Björklund have more and more left that attitude. With the Liberals, income-related insurance is undermined. Huge savings are proposed. The Liberals now believe that the Swedish Parliament should set salaries, and not the social partners. They propose wage reductions of approximately 37.50 per hour, every hour of every day of the year, for those people who already have the lowest wages. The right to strike is being attacked, as is the security of employment. The more insecure the employees and weaker the unions we have, the better it seems to be the Liberals' view. Mr President, I would like to My question to Mats Persson is: Does he, like his party chairman, consider the right to deduct the fee for almost 3 million employees to be a gift to LO?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-487	Mr President, I would like to Liberals are a warm supporter of the Swedish model. Does this mean that the Swedish model is just as Ulla Andersson defines it to be? Of course not. Does this mean that if you support the Swedish model you are not prepared to make any changes to what the labour market laws should look like? Of course not. Every time there is a need for its rules. The Swedish economy is entering a new stage where we see, not least, an increased division of the Swedish labour market. Can we accept, then, that the labour market rules that we have do not change? I don't think so. Finally, Ulla Andersson, your mission and my mission is not to protect old rules. Our mission is to ensure that people enter the labour market, that more people can feel empowerment and that more people can have freedom over their lives. This is our main mission. If that is what it is in Sweden today, namely that we have labour market rules that often exist from the 70s and we now 40-45 years later have a completely different economy, I think it is a bit of decency to ask ourselves the question: Should we have the same rules now as we had in 1976? I wasn't even born then, so the answer for me is quite simple: of course we shouldn't. The rules must be adapted on the basis that we live in a completely new economy, where the most important thing must be that companies can hire, that people feel secure by having jobs to apply to and that they can get and where we really take responsibility for the fact that a new lower class is emerging in Sweden with increased gaps between those who have jobs and those who do not have jobs. There the social partners must not stand in the way. Then we must change the Swedish model. The Swedish model should be preserved, but it should be developed.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-493	Mr President, I would like to If you do not want an old regulation in the Swedish model, I wonder why you propose simple jobs. That if anything is old. Countries such as Turkey have many simple jobs. Why are you attacking the right to strike and employees' conditions? Why do you propose a reduction in wages? I think this feels like very old cabinet food. It's like moving back a hundred years. Any change in the Swedish model that you propose is about weakening the position of employees, undermining income-related insurance and increasing economic inequality. However, these are key and important elements of the Swedish model. Why do you always end up in a situation where we're backing into the future? And why should trade union rights not be strengthened when employers' rights, according to the Liberals, are constantly to be strengthened?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-496	Mr President, I would like to At the port of Gothenburg, a conflict is currently taking place which means that large Swedish export companies, which pay Ulla Andersson's salary, are considering opting out of the port of Gothenburg and choosing other ports. The fact that there is a conflict in the port of Gothenburg affects the entire Swedish export industry. The reason it's going on is because we have rules from 1976. Ulla Andersson says that the rules should always be as they were in 1976 and that this is the Swedish model. Excuse me, but that perspective is not good enough. Simple jobs are the most modern thing you can imagine. For that would mean that a doctor or nurse can put their energy on what they are trained to do, to see patients, rather than, as today, spending time on administrative tasks, to look for care places and to clean up patients' rooms. Simple jobs are therefore the most modern.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-499	Mr President, I would like to There is a lot of good things about Sweden. There are even things that are good about government policy and the budget that has now been put forward. At the same time, however, we must take stock of these years and the budgets put forward. Unfortunately, today's budget proposal is a final confirmation of lost years for Sweden in several important areas. As I said, there are things that are good in the budget – only other things are missing – with many and major expenditure reforms. However, the absence of reforms that seriously address Sweden's problems and challenges is at the same time deafening. That's all for everyone, without passing any of the most basic tasks. One example is the care queues. The health guarantee is now being met for fewer and fewer people. It has gone from 89% in 2014 to 76% so far this year. Behind these figures are real people who don't get treatment on time. The unequal treatment is another major problem that the government does not have enough reforms to address. If you get the right care depends on which county council you live, even in the case of a serious illness. The need for elderly care places is not met at all in this budget. They are needed not least to break loneliness and isolation. More and more people are moving further away from the labour market, while at the same time we have a burning boom. It is people who do not get a chance to show what they are able to do and get into a working community. If, now in a low-interest environment during a boom, large amounts of money are to be spent, they should primarily be used for measures that equip Sweden strongly. Just because summer has lasted record long doesn't mean autumn and winter won't come. And for large groups, it's already here. It is on the shadow side of the labour market and is not achieved by the strong economic sun. What does the government use the resources for? Yes, to consistently extend the public commitment. You can get the picture that it's only for the welfare of these bets, but that's not the case. You make a long line of bets. I have mentioned a few earlier in the debate, such as an e-bike premium and a lower price for deer reconnaissance. These are pretty big reforms. It's not small stuff. A normal year, this would be a lot of stuff. We can take care of the elderly as an example of something that little is being invested in. The Prime Minister did not mention care for the elderly in his very long declaration of government the other day. I see why. Much of this budget lacks care for the elderly. In a few years' time there will be investment in the municipalities, but at the same time a large old-age care effort will end, and no new investment will be made. It is about 12 million for coordination and 13 million for the prevention of falls – millions, not billions – in a 44 billion budget. Much should be free of charge, and I regret to say this sums up some of the government's welfare policy. It has become free for the elderly to sit in ever longer care queues. This is not a good conclusion for a government that I understand has ambitions in the field of welfare. Despite the enormous scope for reform that it considers to have, the pursuit of classic virtues continues. After raising the tax on giving to non-profit organizations working against homelessness or refugees, it was time for increased taxes on labour. Now comes the increased tax on savings. Anyone who gnets, saves and puts away for the children or the pension gets increased tax – in a situation where you have an enormous space for reform. Don't say you have to do this! This is done because you want to. It is simply ideologically justified. What is the next virtue to be taxed harder, and how? Maybe it's love? It's a little doubtful. Is it wisdom, or is it perhaps humility? Constantly taking the liberty of subduing larger parts of society by raising taxes, trying to eliminate diversity in welfare, making it more difficult for non-profit organizations and trying to maximise their influence over the church, suggests in itself that humility before power is not an infinitely large tax base in the very sphere of government. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats will, of course, respond to this budget proposal with our alternative. We think we need a real reform diet rather than the candy bag that the government presents. First fibers, then dessert! It is an old good practice that has worked in many contexts and should also guide economic policy. I believe the government is abandoning this connection. We'll spend less money than the government. We're going to hold back on the expenses. We will reduce income taxes on both work and pensions, and we will do so more than the government. We will propose that the difference in taxation be eliminated entirely from 1 January 2018. There will be a focus on jobs, with comprehensive measures for people who are ever further away from the labour market to have a chance to enter a work community, a major reform of the labour market with entry jobs, extended RUT reform and a massive expansion of vocational education and training. There will be major health and care efforts in the Christian Democrats' budget. We will include the reintroduction of queue billions, which the government abolished with known results: growing care queues around our country. There will be investments in care for the elderly. We will increase the continuity of staff in home care so that the elderly in need of home care will not have to meet so many different employees, which today creates uncertainty and insecurity for the elderly. There will be efforts against dementia. There will also be efforts at school, so that we attract the best teachers to the schools that need them most. We need to involve all parents more in schooling, not just the resourceful ones. In fact, the government is making a small effort here, for which I would like to commend them. Maybe they've been listening to suggestions from us, or they've come up with this on their own. That is an important thing that we will also include in our budget. We will ensure that the money we spend on the Police Authority is not just put into a general pot, but that we get the most out of it by changing the organisation of the police, increasing local anchoring and ensuring that the police can invest more in better working conditions, so that we can recruit and retain police officers and change police training. In this way, we can get more policemen into the streets and squares – faster than with government policy. We want to make efforts to lift vulnerable people and make it easier for those who have it really difficult, not least by raising the housing supplement for our economically vulnerable pensioners and increasing the child allowance for the financially vulnerable families with children. We will invest in family reunification so that small children can be reunited with their parents. Mr President, I would like to We have many challenges in Sweden. I have mentioned some of them in the area of health care, in the area of care for the elderly, in the area of jobs and in the area of the security of not being subjected to crime in streets and squares. But I am also thinking of another challenge, which we do not hear much about in this House and in the debate on society. Bris said a few weeks ago that children in Sweden do not believe that their parents have time for them. Do we have a policy for this? It may not be primarily a political issue, but politics must be there and provide opportunities for families to more time for the children, to more time together, to be there when the child needs it. Care efforts will be needed to meet the increased mental illness that we see in society. We propose a wide range of such initiatives in our budget. But it will also require a policy for parents to be there and have time, energy and energy for their children. Mr President, I would like to My conviction is that trust grows when we can rely on welfare, when we can trust the police and the school, when we can trust that care exists when we need it. That is why it is so incredibly important that we can do this. Then we can add all the other things that we also want to do. But I don't think any more trust can be commanded. We need a society that holds together of its own strength and will, not a society that is hammered together with coercion from above. We need a society where our own effort and responsibility pay off, a society built in families, by companies, in parishes and by associations, a society where trust and solidarity with the victim are established, where we feel love, where we are seen, where we can contribute. And it is best done in union with others.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-515	Mr President, I would like to Not long ago, the Christian Democrats profiled themselves in the areas of aid, peace and humanity. This is in stark contrast with the party we are now seeing, which is trying to find more and more clearly a place as a party for the ultraconservative right. It is therefore no wonder that it becomes a little unclear what the Christian Democrats really want and what their promises can be expected to achieve in a possible government. For example, the Christian Democrats often abuse the so-called pensioner's tax, that is, the tax gap that exists between wage earners and pensioners. It is startling, given that it was the Christian Democrats themselves who, in a government position, made it come into being. In addition, the Christian Democrats would like to continue working with the Moderates. It is a party that wants to repeat the same mistake by once again increasing the tax gap between wage earners and pensioners with a sixth job tax deduction. In order to reduce the tax gap, the Christian Democrats propose an increase in VAT. In relation to their income, low-income pensioners are among the groups most affected by such an increase. The country's pensioners should therefore themselves be involved in paying for the reduction of the pensioner's tax that the Christian Democrats were involved in introducing. But it doesn't stop there. Even the VAT increase proposed by KD cannot cover the sixth job tax credit. We have asked RUT to count on the costs of removing the tax gap between pensioners and wage earners even in the case of a sixth job tax deduction. In 2018, it would cost another 6 billion and a few years later it would be up to 7 billion. How do the Christian Democrats intend to finance this? Should VAT be increased even more for the country's pensioners?
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-519	Mr President, I would like to I am almost a little uplifted by this speech, which began with the talk of the ultraconservative right. I don't really feel 100% comfortable with that designation. This should then be led in evidence by the fact that we want to reduce the tax on pensioners and that we also fund it in our draft budget. Then I think there are a lot of people who want to belong to the ultra-orthodox, ultra-conservative or whatever it was, the right. I think that's reasonable. The pensioners have had to stand back for a long time. We want to make a substantial cut in our budget to remove the difference in taxation on one occasion, namely on 1 January next year. It was right to start by reducing taxes on labour. We were in a very difficult situation in 2006 when hundreds of thousands of people were almost permanently outside the labour market, partly because it paid too badly to work. I think it is wrong to maintain that tax gap year after year, and that is why I want to close it. I can also inform Janine Alm Ericson that we are making huge investments, not least for economically vulnerable pensioners. We want to increase the special supplement in the housing supplement that goes to the most vulnerable pensioners by 500 SEK. That's ten times what you're doing for that group. For those who have a rent over the roof we increase the rent ceiling from SEK 5 000 to SEK 7 500. You raise to 5 600 kroner. We have a huge investment in this group of economically vulnerable pensioners. I'm very grateful you asked the question. Then I had the chance to tell you that our policy is very much aimed at the very group that Janine Alm Ericson is concerned about. There is every possibility for Janine Alm Ericson to vote for our option. It will greatly benefit that group.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-524	Mr President, I would like to That it would be led in evidence was a slightly different connection. It is rather very difficult to know where the Christian Democrats really stand. The government wants to abolish the unjust tax. I'm very glad we do, too. But we do not want to finance it by adding additional cost increases for everyone, including this group. There, I hope, we can come back. A similar clarification, such as what I might not have, would be welcome when it comes to environmental policy. Nevertheless, the Christian Democrats have proposed some interesting environmental taxes, and that is welcome. But it's hard to see how they're going to convince the Moderates of them. The Moderates want to reduce environmental taxes and make it cheaper to pollute. I would like the Christian Democrats to respond if they are willing to lie down equally with the Moderates on both the issue of job tax deductions and the environmental and climate issue.
i-2fa05156b3d0182f-528	Mr President, I would like to We wanted to introduce a job tax deduction. It wasn't that we went to bed flat for the Moderates. We thought it was good to introduce this. You can ask any Moderate who has negotiated with me in the Government Office if I have laid flat at any time. If you get that answer, I'm surprised. There has certainly been such an opportunity that someone can come up with, but that was not commonplace. It was said at the beginning that we were ultraconservative, or whatever it was. It is a very good thing that aid is now being increased and that we are reducing the payments in aid. I think that is extremely good. We will make sure to match you when it comes to aid. We will not propose any cuts in aid. We have convinced the Moderates many times that we will maintain a high level of aid in Sweden. We will be able to convince them of different things. That's what we do in an alliance. Let's give and have some. Some things we can get through, others have to wait a bit, and so we work forward for a better Sweden.
