i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-12	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. It is about the direction of defence policy. It is the Liberals' view that the focus decision that was taken in 2015 is now over-played. It is overplayed from an economic point of view, as our defence branch managers have very clearly and publicly stated in the defence forum this autumn that there was indeed an increase of 10.2 billion, but that they entered this defence decision-making period with a deficit of nearly 30 billion. During the autumn, Brigadier General Anders Carell at the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration has also stated that if the orders made in the specialization decision regarding materiel are also to be delivered this defense decision period, you need a supplement equivalent to SEK 8 billion each year during the five years. Peter Nordlund at Totalförsvarets forskningsinstitut also noted that the money will not be enough to implement the decision made by the Riksdag. Mr President, I would like to Added to this is that we have received a Russia report from FOI. It describes that Russia has already achieved regional military superiority in northern Europe. To this will be added the uncertainty generated by the ongoing, or soon ongoing, Brexit process and the installation of a new and somewhat unpredictable president to take place on Friday in Washington. Earlier in the autumn in the Riksdag, the Liberals have argued that Swedish defence expenditure should in the long term amount to 2 per cent. That is what is required and nothing else now. If we also argue that Sweden should be outside the NATO defence alliance, we need even higher defence expenditure, because the military non-alignmentist claims to be able to do without any outside aid. Now the government is setting up a new defence committee. Liberals will participate in this, but we would like to emphasise that there is now a danger in delay. Much rather than a defence preparation, we would now have liked to see negotiations between parties on major financial contributions to the defence in the near future. Mr President, I would like to I shall now do the strange thing, namely to talk about nothing. When committee initiatives are raised in a committee and they do not get a majority, they disappear without a trace, one might say, in the political ether. There is no room for reservation, and it is not recorded. Therefore, I would like to talk briefly about what has come to be called the engine issue in relation to the next generation of fighter aircraft Gripen E. For several years, the Committee on Defence has been following the issue of maintenance and product support for the engines to be installed in our new fighter aircraft, which will be fully operational in 2026. The background to this is that GKN, previously Volvo Aero, in Trollhättan has operated our fighter aircraft engines in all years since the 90s, both in terms of the A/B version and the C/D version. This has been done so well that we can now see that we have now passed 300 000 flying hours with Gripen without a single engine-related accident. It has also been shown that it has been possible to increase the cost-effectiveness of its work on an ongoing basis. But two years ago it became known that there were plans to move maintenance and product support from Trollhättan to the United States, specifically Jacksonville, Florida. As a result of the concerns raised by this, the committee began to inform itself on this issue. In the next ten years, if the political majority gets what it wants, we will go from 96 to 60 fighter planes in Sweden. If we want to continue to have the flight time that we have today in total in the air force, it will require accessibility to each individual. Each individual fighter aircraft had to increase its flight time by more than 50 percent. This, Mr President, makes it impossible for this work to be carried out on the other side of the Atlantic. Sending aircraft engines to the other side of the world does not make me cheaper than a solution within the borders of the country. In addition, this is about hundreds of jobs in a vulnerable region in Västra Götaland and in Trollhättan for engineers and metal workers. Mr President, I would like to That is why, among others, I initiated what was to be a committee initiative. And in the beginning, almost all parties seemed to agree on the wisdom of having a solution that is close to Sweden and not anywhere else. But at the end of our negotiations, most parties turned, and in the end it was the Alliance alone that pushed the question that we must have maintenance of the combat aircraft engines in Sweden. It was important for me to say this for the Minutes and for posterity. The Minister of Defence, who is not here today, usually says when we talk about these issues that we should not talk about nuts and screws in the defence policy. That sounds very wise. But I would like to remind you that the acquisition, maintenance, operation and product support of the next generation fighter engines cost about SEK 40 billion. This corresponds to two fixed connections across the Sound. And, Mr President, if this maintenance does not work, the single most important component of Swedish military defence will remain on the ground no matter how much effort we otherwise make.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-24	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is now more dependent on its surrounding world than ever before. One can only look at the investments made in the Baltics and Poland. They are today larger than those made in the United States, for example, and they are larger than those made in China. I can say that Swedish jobs are not only created within Sweden, but they are created in some sense to a large extent in our close environment and in cooperation with our neighbours. I can also say that Swedish food does not mainly come from Sweden anymore. We can look at fuels, where we basically have no production of our own. The deliveries that we have and that make Sweden roll are completely dependent on our world around us. We can also see that our level of self-sufficiency in many inputs is declining and that we are becoming increasingly dependent on imports in terms of more and more goods. If Swedish borders were to be closed, Sweden would also be closed quite immediately. The conclusions that can be drawn from the rapid turn of security policy in the wrong direction are therefore not the same as just a few years ago. Today we are in a more vulnerable position. We can also note that neutrality – or alliance freedom, or how one now chooses to define it – is not today a means of standing outside a conflict. A conflict between NATO and Russia will affect Sweden, and we will be involved in such a conflict. We do not choose to stand outside; that is not an option. Therefore, I find it quite refreshing to read the latest appendix to the Swedish Armed Forces' perspective study, which says that military strategic developments inevitably mean that Sweden will be drawn into a conflict if it occurs in the Baltic Sea. It is also said that we are more vulnerable than our neighbours because we cannot count on aid. There are other elements in itself that we can count on, for example, via the European Union's solidarity clause. However, when this clause has been tested, we have seen that it takes time and is limited to its extent. It can also be said that Sweden is already at war, if you define a war, as hybrid warfare. In recent weeks and months we have received many examples of how vulnerable Sweden is, that preparations have already been made for such a war and that we are being subjected to attacks of various kinds. Of course, in such a situation one might think that the Swedish government is pooling its strength to come forward with proposals to strengthen the Swedish defence, but that is nothing that we have seen. Even when all the alliance parties want to discuss a strengthening of the defense, it is waved away as a drag or game for the galleries. I don't think it's really serious. All non-government parties involved in the defence settlement have signalled that they want reinforcements, but this is waved away by the government as throwing figures. I do not think it feels serious, Mr President. If you want to reach agreements, it is not good enough to ralli over your partner parties. I think we can see that, despite the situation in the outside world, we have a more divided parliament than before in terms of security policy. You can see three lines: One line is the pure freedom of alliance, or the policy of neutrality, where the Swedish Democrats and the Left are represented. Another line is the alliance parties, which want to seek cooperation, strengthen defence and cooperate with the Western European Defence Alliance through treaty safeguards. Then, of course, there is the government's line of building bilateral cooperation with Finland and the United States in particular. A great deal can be said about bilateral cooperation and bilateral agreements. In the absence of other things, of course, these are good, but one might wonder, for example, what the hope formulated by US Vice President Joe Biden – that Swedish territory is inviolable – is worth today. It remains for the government to answer. Do they really hope that Donald Trump will be the one to save Sweden from comrade Putin's ill will? In order to further cloud the picture of the government's unclear security policy, the government is actively opposed to the EU taking greater security policy responsibility, in order to take account of the transatlantic link – that is NATO, to which the government is just as stubbornly opposed. It is not clarity but clarity, and it is contradictory. Nor am I the only one who thinks so, but it is also stated by the government's own investigators and experts. For example, Ambassador Krister Bringéus describes in his investigation that Sweden in a conflict will be in a decision-making twilight country. I will not say that I am an expert in crisis management, but from what I have learned, it is important in these situations that there are clear directives. This also applies to the entire Swedish Armed Forces, or as they say in the latest appendix to the perspective study: Without contractual security guarantees, there is continued uncertainty as to whether and when support can be counted. I think that a government should be able to answer some fundamental questions regarding security policy and the Armed Forces. If it crusts, what will Sweden do? With whom are we going to do that, and how are we going to do that? If you cannot answer those questions, I do not think you deserve the confidence of the people. Mr President, I would like to At the recently concluded conference in Sälen, a business representative said he did not like collaboration. One can of course think about why someone thinks so, but according to him, collaboration often involves a public authority person coming to the business community and wanting to cooperate without having any means to do so. There is a desire for cooperation but no resources to get anywhere. It is clear that such cooperation does not benefit our construction of a total defence. If we want to create robustness, we must be prepared to pay. Resources are needed to strengthen the most vulnerable parts of our society and equip our population. Today, for a trained antagonist, it is not difficult – without even being in Sweden – to knock out several of our supply systems. We know that without water, electricity and fuel Sweden stops quickly. We also need to be better at using these abilities against an attacker in conflict. This is a task that Parliament has already decided on, but which does not seem to have reached all the Members of this House. But we also say that ability is not enough. Without support for practical action, the ability will not be as useful; it will not have the same threshold-raising effect. In addition to developing the capacity for active cyber defence, we should therefore develop a cyber doctrine. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a small country without defence alliances, with the exception of the EU solidarity clause. For those who want solidarity to apply, it is also a matter of showing solidarity, and this can be done in different ways. The clear way is, of course, to help friends when they ask for help. How Sweden acted in the previous case when the EU solidarity clause was tested can well be discussed, and I leave it to others to assess whether it strengthened Sweden's role as a partner in solidarity with other countries. At least we Moderates are convinced that cooperation with other countries is developing our capabilities and strengthening our unit. Setting up a unit with a high response readiness strengthens our preparedness and also our ability. We have also said that Sweden should, to this end, urgently enter into cooperation with the UK Joint Expeditionary Force, which includes six other neighbouring countries. Finally, Mr President, at a time when grey has become the new black, there is a need for specific clarity. In an information war, it is not possible to be vague, and when society is exposed to impact campaigns, hybrid attacks and hacked email baskets – even among us in the Riksdag – it affects the whole societal climate. When voters experience an unclear policy and lack of effort, our antagonist has won in part. I understand that this is a time of change, but it also means that old answers no longer apply. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-45	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we want to make reservations on all points, but for a number of reasons I am only in favour of reservation 12. I have a brief comment to make on what Allan Widman said. I want to make it clear that we share the view that Swedish maintenance should be in Sweden. I say this so that it is included in the Minutes and the record. Everything else is just fiction. However, we have a future product development that has been discussed whether or not it should take place in the United States. However, protecting Trollhättan and the companies there and investing in the Swedish defence industry is one of our cornerstones. I say it so that it is included in the legacy, as it is so beautifully called. For many years when in the Alliance you sat in the hot tub and did your analyses of the future Swedish defence, you had an analysis program about opening the borders and replacing the Swedish population. That debate belongs somewhere else, but you concluded that Sweden does not need any defence. We don't need a defense, and you even went and destroyed the systems. In the small hot tub sat Allan Widman, Mikael Oscarsson and some others, and they got a mission: Make sure to crash the systems and break them! Sweden does not need a defence. You also completely destroyed the civil defense. That's what you did well when you were penetrating the doorhole. Allan Widman, of course, became Chairman, Mr President, because he was the most insistent. He became chairman of the Implementation Group, which successfully led this. It cost taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars. This was your legacy after eight years. We stood all the time fighting, budgeting and saying that we cannot have a defence that is adapted to the day-form in Russia. In addition, we should not have a defence that points out an enemy in any way, but we should have a strong Swedish defence over time. This applies regardless of which attacker it may be, in order to retain our freedom and our way of living in Sweden. For this you have mocked us. You have rallied over the Swedish Armed Forces and called it a special interest, as you yourself know. You didn't see any of this. The analytical ability that you've shown up is crap. Now you can see that you've woken up a little bit. You have begun to understand that we must have a strong Swedish defence. However, you have not yet understood that we must have a strong civil defence, because you are not budgeting for civil defence. We are spending 4 billion more on civil defence during this budgetary period, because we understand that this is necessary. Welcome up and copy this! The copy room is also open today in the afternoon. You have to bet on civil defense! Don't you see that? Without a civil defence, the military part will not work either. How hard can it be to do that analysis? But you don't bet money. Mr President, I would like to Just before Christmas, no more money was invested than the government did. For example Allan Widman, who was up and talking just now, wanted to cut down. He himself has written in a motion that he wants to cut the price compensations from 2017 onwards by 20 percent per year. I repeat: 20% per year, according to this exercise, the Liberals want to cut the price compensations by. Allan Widman looks surprised– he probably didn't read it himself, but it's a committee motion. I can hand it over later. What has happened since Christmas when you were on the government's budget? What happened over Christmas and New Year's? People and defence have been organised, Mr President. Then it is important to have headlines in the newspapers, and then the bidding begins. But how does it really work when you invest this money? We'll bet money, too. In the budget that we presented before Christmas, we spend 25 billion more on defence than you do. Of these 25 billion, we are spending 4 billion specifically on building civil defence. This has not just to do with war. In fact, disasters, pandemics and other things can cause us to be excluded so that it becomes more difficult to obtain, for example, food and fuel from outside. Then we'll have to build up a security store. We must ensure that the level of self-sufficiency is increased. Our plan for this is too long to go through now, but we are working it out so that this can be put together properly. Civil defence is absolutely essential for a number of reasons, and we are committed to this. For example, voluntary organisations will have their own budget of 200 million now and 200 million next year. The military gets 490 million, the civil defense gets 635 million, the economic defense gets 216 million and so on. We'll split this up, and there'll be further rifts. Then you have to submit directives to the authorities to use the money. The Liberals rightly pointed out that there will be a hole. The government does the right thing when you wait and see what money the Swedish Armed Forces want and when you have to provide this money, if you want it, which I think you should do. You have to plan for this. First of all, it is said that there is a hole, depending on the dollar rate or whatever it is. Then you take a stand on restocking money, and I think that is quite right. NATO came up here, but we are taking this debate on another occasion. The Alliance is probably trying to shift focus now. You don't have much left to do and now you have to create something else. The Alliance has been on our line and agrees that we need a stronger defence. You've forgotten the civil defense, but I'm sure it'll come in the next turn, and then you'll probably start to understand it, too. You must find an enemy. The Swedish democrats can't push any longer, because that won't help. But you're creating an enemy – Russia – and you're making it up that they're a threat. Russia is not threatening Sweden today, is it? Russia may pose a threat, but then join the line of building a strong Swedish defence. Why don't you bet money? You had the chance before Christmas. You talk a lot, but you don't bet money. Mr President, I would like to What's our target? We want to go up to ten brigades. An amphibious brigade is part of this. We want a city shooting battalion, or a city shooting brigade. We want brigades over the surface. As we write in our priorities, we primarily want to invest in the Swedish defence industry. This is priority one. You don't write this. This is our priority. For example, Aster 30, which they themselves want. Can we do this with Swedish technology? Yes, we think so. But here one begins to speculate about old Patriot systems, which have, according to many, reached their development halt. First of all, bet on the Swedish defence industry, where there is competence. Bet in second place where we can be part of it. In the third place: K was over the counter. In our budget we invest in anti-aircraft systems, at the end of this period. That is why this goes up by 10 billion at the time and is a total of 25 billion more. We want, above the surface, of course, to combine this with civil defence with a much higher level of self-sufficiency. We also want – as we do in the budget – to invest in the training of officers. Here the Social Democrats – the government – are right, Mr President. In making these changes, consideration must be given to material inputs, military service soldiers, training places and training places. All of this must follow a line. It's not just snapping your fingers after the collapse that the Alliance has carried out. I can't. You can do it at a higher rate, and you can do it with more bets, but anyone who thinks that the input of any amount of money will create a strong defense within two years is wrong– it is not possible. The consequences of these devastations will also be seen. I will come back to voluntary fire brigades, operational defences and other things in the civilian section, although you may think that I should talk a little longer in this paragraph. As the government knows, we have sent Baghdad Bob to Jordan, where he is an ambassador. There was also someone called Baghdad Bob the other day in a debate on television. Annie Lööf was up here in the pulpit claiming that we consistently voted against all sanctions against Russia. This is a lie. That's not true. That is why I have with me excerpts showing how we have voted in the European Union. I know the Center thinks it's great to hand over documents. This has been tried with the Prime Minister. It has been called upon to accept documents and to answer that it is nonsense. I have with me documents that I intend to hand over later, so that they can read on. They like things like this. I look forward with confidence to hand over these documents to the Center so that you can sit back in the hot tub and analyse this.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-73	Mr President, I would like to It is correct that the Liberals are making a write-down of the price increases to be made in respect of some of the appropriations for Category 6. This does not prevent the Liberals from adding 2 billion more – net – to the defence, which is in parallel with what the Swedish Democrats are allocating. I would like to say that I have never been chairman of the Implementation Group – Roger Richtoff is guilty here of a direct factual error. The background to the Implementation Group was a black hole in the Swedish Armed Forces. I consider the savings made to be essentially correct, Mr President. This is, among other things, a mobile radio and television studio that could be used in the field for the transmission of information. These are not things that make us more dangerous to an opponent, and in the economic situation that was then, I believe it was a perfectly reasonable saving. I would like to speak briefly about GKN and the issue of engine maintenance. Apparently, Roger Richtoff is not informed that GKN has now withdrawn from the negotiations regarding both product support and maintenance and that it sees no future for its operations in Sweden when it comes to combat aircraft engines. The Swedish Democrats have screwed themselves since they decided not to support Swedish industry, not to support the engineers and metal workers in Trollhättan. The Social Democratic budget has been blamed. It has been said that it does not want to create disorder initially when it comes to the acquisition of a new fighter aircraft. But, Mr President, the fact remains: the Swedish democrats sell out Swedish engine skills and Swedish jobs.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-78	Mr President, I would like to I don't know where to start. You've tried to smudge, lie and make up so many times that you're no longer credible, Allan Widman. Your credibility is long gone. Read our actions, where it is clear how we prioritise the Swedish defence industry. We can do it out loud together. In fact, this is the way it is, and I think most people in industry know it. When we meet Saab's representatives, they have a different view of our support for them. Yes, we meet industries of different kinds– I hope it's okay with Allan Widman – and will continue to do so. And we will continue to assert our line that we have no intention whatsoever of preventing in any small way the Swedish defence industry, workers and professionals from operating in this country. Had our defence policy been applied, the defence industry would have had considerably more jobs than it had under Allan Widman's influence over the eight years. Allan Widman's first comment was that although price compensation is cut by 20 per cent. How can we arrive at the analysis that we can cut by 20%? You go wrong here. What is the reason for reaching this conclusion? This is what I think is a small problem. When someone tells you that, you try to send in the money another way. At least I will say one thing in favour of the Liberals, and that is that you have not taken part in the defense arrangement and that you are spending more money than your alliance brothers do. So you're spending more money on the defense than the others, but you're not spending any more on civil defense.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-83	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is true that the Liberals are investing more in military defence. In the current defence decision-making period, we have an upscaling of 28 billion more than what the so-called defence agreement of 2015 meant. I can inform Roger Richtoff that the price increase, which we are cutting down on, affects neither 6:1 nor 6:2, that is to say, the unit business or the supply of equipment. In the end, Mr President, it is surely a question of whether or not we want to strengthen Swedish defence. Then I do not understand the explanations given by Roger Richtoff regarding engine maintenance. The decisive morning when decisions were to be made, we received an email from the Swedish Democrats, saying that they had changed their mind on this point. There was no intention of contributing to any committee initiative. Since then, of course, the Swedish industry concerned has withdrawn from this. You don't see a future. This will inevitably lead us to maintain engines in Jacksonville, Florida, the United States, across the Atlantic, in a very tense state of security policy. In his speech, Roger Richtoff says that Russia does not threaten Sweden. Russia is explicitly threatening both Sweden and other Scandinavian countries, including nuclear weapons, and this happens time and again. I am puzzled, Mr President, at the lack of vigilance and awareness that unfortunately characterises the Swedish democrats' view of security policy. Roger Richtoff! You had the opportunity to save Swedish engine skills, the availability of the next generation of fighter aircraft and jobs in Västra Götaland. You actively chose not to, and the Swedish Democrats are not coming from that now.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-91	Mr President, I would like to It does not matter how many times Mr Widman repeats this. I think you might mix this up with another case relating to the sale of JAS aircraft, Allan Widman. Let's get back to that. There is every reason to do so, so that we are not unclear on this point. I tried to reassure everyone who listens to this debate by saying that we – I say it again – will never ever be in favour of having maintenance on the other side of the Atlantic. We have written that the maintenance necessary for the war organization and day-to-day operations should be in Sweden. But if it is product development that is crucial, what should it look like if it is on the other side of the Atlantic? I don't think even the Social Democrats are on Allan Widman's line. It would be completely unreasonable to send everything to the United States. I do not think that even the Social Democrats are in favour of this idea, but I think they will have to answer that for themselves. According to the Swedish Democrats, it is completely unthinkable that an aircraft engine, or what needs daily maintenance, should be sent by boat or by plane to the United States. Now this is done. But if, for some strange reason, we find a single sentence where we have written something else, we will clarify ourselves, because this is not on the map either for the Swedish Democrats. As far as the investments are concerned, I think I am guilty of the answer. But it will have to be a rhetorical question, Mr President. An interesting question is why one does not invest a bit of money in civil defence. Hasn't the value and significance of a civil defence been understood? The question will have to hang in the air for another occasion.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-95	Mr President, I would like to I jerked to the bench when Richtoff said that Russia does not threaten Sweden today. There are many objections to it. First of all, is it the official attitude of the party that you represent, Richtoff, or is it your personal attitude? I know that it can vary quite a lot within your party what you think about individual issues. Another reflection is why you want to spend so much money on defence if Russia does not pose a threat. If there is no threat, why should we spend all this money? Another issue is the hybrid attacks that take place daily, and as the Swedish authorities note, they are also taking place against Sweden. It has also been noted that this has happened in the US electoral movement. Does Richtoff believe that such attacks can occur even in the Swedish election movement, or is his view that they have not even taken place in the United States? Perhaps you can answer briefly and clearly my brief and clear questions: Is it your opinion or the party's view that Russia is not threatening Sweden today? And do the Swedish Democrats believe that hybrid attacks can also be directed against the Swedish elections in two years' time?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-100	Mr President, I would like to I am happy to respond to this. Of course, we Swedish democrats answer the questions we get, even if the answer cannot always fit. Some of you point to Russia as an enemy, such as a colleague of yours, Jan R Andersson. We do not regard Russia as an enemy. We regard NATO as a friend, but Russia is not an enemy of us. A threat must be pronounced in some way. Russia may pose a threat. If so, you must take that threat seriously and guard against it. During all these years when the Moderates were in government and demolished the Swedish defence, we stood here and told you that you must invest in the Swedish defence. Then the Moderates rallied over this. Fredrik Reinfeldt stood here and said: Yes, yes, we know that you are the only party that wants to invest more money in the defense. Then it was all right. Today, you've changed your feet and approached us. You have understood that the Swedish defence should not be dependent on the day-form in Russia or on any other potential attacker, who may pose a threat and who, with its very existence, constitutes some form of possibility of deploying cyber attacks, which is certainly also what you do when trying to influence. But a non-aligned country should be careful to point out its enemies. It's serious to do that, so get a little firm. Guard yourselves, as we've been doing for many years. We need a strong Swedish defence that can meet a possible launch of a real threat, and we will take height for this. You have no way out and therefore try to shift the focus from your own shortcomings over all these years to finding someone who suddenly throws himself at you.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-106	Mr President, I would like to Since I received a very vague answer, I ask the question again. Does Richtoff and the Swedish Democrats believe that Russia is not threatening Sweden today? Is this Richtoff's opinion or that of the party? A country that has targeted subversive activities against its neighbours, who have kidnapped people from other countries, who have threatened countries with nuclear weapons and who have invaded and annexed parts of other countries, is, of course, acting in a way that can be perceived as threatening. But if the Swedish Democrats do not think that Russia poses a threat, I must ask the question: Is this Richtoff's opinion or is it the party's opinion? I have another question to answer from the Swedish Democrats. This is about the hybrid attacks that have been recorded by the US Security Service. Does Richtoff think that such attacks can occur even in the upcoming Swedish elections or that they may even already occur, that they are planning and building up their attacks? Does Richtoff believe that attacks similar to those in the United States can also occur in Sweden? Or does Richtoff mean they didn't happen in the United States?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-110	Mr President, I would like to I think they've happened in the United States. I also believe that they can happen in Sweden. Was it clear? As far as the threat is concerned, I am speaking not as an individual but as a representative of the Swedish Democrats. We believe that Sweden must have a defence that takes precedence over all the threats we are surrounded by. The biggest threat to Sweden today is within the borders, but you do not care. You still don't understand that our country is on fire. Yesterday, the prosecutor in Malmö said that the system has collapsed. It's about the whole structure of our society. It's a real threat. There are threats that can well be triggered by all the great nations. But Russia does not say to Sweden today: do this, or we will occupy your country. Russia does not carry out acts that cross the border. This is not my assessment, but that of military intelligence. Is there a business going on? Yes, but it's been going on for many years, Mr. Moderate. It went on in the '40s, '50s, '60s, '70s and '80s. Even when the Left was controlled from Moscow, this activity was taking place. And it will continue. Has it occurred in the United States? Yeah. But who was it that was listening to the heads of state in Europe? Was it Russia? No, it was Obama who had phone tapping on Merkel and the gang. It's not a defense, but it shows a balance. Isn't it true that the great powers act like this? The Moderates may also ask themselves whether Sweden has any activity in Russia with intelligence collection and such and what it aims to do. I hope I have answered the questions now.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-118	Mr President, I would like to We have just taken note of an example of misinformation, lack of clarity, and the art of getting involved in many different opinions at once. On the one hand, we are talking about the value of increasing defence spending, on the other hand, we are talking about the need and why. It is a summary picture of how stressed the Swedish Democrats are apparently when it comes to defence policy. It also shows the internal range that exists. In the European Parliament and in other contexts in Europe and in networking, they act in one way, but here at home they give a different picture. The Swedish democrats acted in exactly the same way in committee when they abstained before Christmas from the opportunity to provide clear guidance on how we view rear maintenance of the JAS plan in the future. Instead, they chose not to participate in this initiative with the government parties. On the one hand, they say that they should invest in the Swedish defence industry, on the other hand, they do nothing in practice when the opportunity exists to get an initiative that makes the issue land in that maintenance in the long term can remain in Trollhättan. On TV4 this morning we heard about critical review and how important it is for the school to work on these issues. Judging from the opening chapter of this debate, I would like to say that it is extremely important. We need to have an approach in our society that meets both external imagery and imagery from domestic political statements and actors that affect how we think in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Our starting point is that defence policy is about reaching broad agreements and a broad consensus with broad, preferably cross-block, anchoring in our House. It is about our being able to defend our territorial integrity in the short and long term and to have a country that is safe to live in. With our troubled world, absolute demands are placed on action and developed leadership for Swedish security. It is becoming increasingly important to protect our neighbourhood and stand up for freedom, democracy and honesty in all contexts. There is increased uncertainty about the transatlantic link, not least with the new presidency of the United States and with regard to Brexit and various issues dealt with within the European Union. It is also about the wars in the Middle East, about Ukraine and about developments in Russia. The report that FOI delivered at the beginning of December is very important to start with. Here we can read about how Russia's armed forces have developed into an organisational structure that can handle large-scale operations even outside the former Soviet area. Russia's armed forces last year had greater military capabilities than in 2013, and they are a more powerful force force force than before. The fact that Russia's military freedom of action continues to grow affects us, and it affects how we should think about defence policy in the future. We also need to update the picture of our relative capacity development, both towards the whole world and towards individual states. We know that Russian military strategists are paying a great deal of attention to both military and non-military means and are constantly evolving. You can read it in the report. It is about anti-Americanism, patriotism, authoritarian political system and that future generations will continue to be raised in a patriotic spirit and cultivate Russian moral and spiritual values. This affects people, and it also affects attitudes towards us and those we work with within the European Union. Defence expenditure is a larger part of Russian GDP than before, 5.4 per cent in 2015 compared to 3.6 per cent in 2005, and defence expenditure continues to be given priority over other areas of expenditure. We can take part of the analyses and choose to either take them and understand them or let them be outside our own perception area. My view is that Mr Putin's actions are a systematic challenge to the European security regime. People in Sweden increasingly understand the meaning of hybrid threats. It's about cyber attacks, impact campaigns and information disturbances. Much is happening in society on these issues, including the view of total defence readiness. All the different strategies that are now being developed, both at the Government Office and in collaboration with other parties, need to be coordinated. In Dalarna there were goals in the food sector. A few weeks ago there was a safety strategy that focused on transport in order to ensure food security. But my picture is that we should be able to develop production in Sweden as much as possible in order to also be able to get a robustness and less vulnerability. Then, of course, transport also needs to be secured. The modernisation of the defence system that has begun must continue. Of course there are huge challenges when it comes to human resources and equipment. We must ensure that this is ensured. The Center Party has been involved in taking responsibility in the defence agreement, which we concluded together with four other parties in the spring of 2015. It is located, and it is extremely indicative of the activities currently carried out by the Swedish Armed Forces, both up to 2020 and in preparation for future defence preparation and the work to be done with material purchases and other things ahead of the 20th century. Without responsible alliance parties, this deal would not have been as good as it is and not so broad, which is very important at this time. However, recent developments are raising the need for further reinforcements. It is about more money for the defence in the short term and also in the longer term. Our defence capabilities must be increased. We must also ensure that the defence decision is implemented and implemented as far and as safely as possible and that currency or exchange rate changes do not affect the decisions that are now to be implemented. When it comes to the planning instructions, we see that the defence capabilities are fading towards 2020. It has to do with investments in equipment and systems to be shifted. We need to focus on the 2020s. In the Defence Committee we need to discuss how we view money values and other long-term, so that it can be as clear as possible around the planning instructions. As far as the Center Party is concerned, we are prepared to strengthen in the short term, given that there are almost four years left on the defence decision. We are ready for dialogue with the government. In the defence group too, we are ready for dialogue. We assume that the government will also be prepared to engage in a dialogue on additional money over the remaining four-year period, given the changing security situation that is now a reality. The Swedish Armed Forces need to be extremely active in describing and having views on exactly how much money is needed and where to go. But we also see the need for a safety inventory in order to do this as well as possible. Therefore, assignments need to be given to the Swedish Armed Forces to return with analysis and action proposals. Then we can discuss money together in the defence group. If the government is prepared to spend money in the short term, we as a responsible party are also ready to do so. In the longer term, that is what previous speakers said. We are also a party that has made our position clear for the 20th century and in the longer term when it comes to additional money. We have explained this before, but our goal is for the Swedish Defence Committee to have the goal of reaching the Nordic average in terms of the share of defence expenditure in the bnp. Today, Sweden has the lowest share of the Nordic countries. We're about 1% of bnp. The Nordic average is about 1.3 per cent. The figures are moving, but we need to get to that level on the basis of the changes that affect us. This is currently an additional SEK 11 billion per year for the next defence decision to reach the Nordic average as a first step. We are prepared to work hard for this in the Defense Committee. We hope that we can get a broad consensus on this once we have landed in the result. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 4.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-140	Mr President, I would like to I think Daniel Bäckström has the honour. He has had points of view about standing up for the agreement that has been reached. This analysis happens to hit ours. Because we do exactly the same thing, it makes it easier to think this is good. We shall await the needs of the Armed Forces. What do you need? How much money is missing? Then you sit down and reason, and then I think you can see how much money it is, which is very important, and when during this period they have to be raised. That is the right way to go. With this conscription inquiry – now I come to my question, Mr President – there is reason to believe that there will be about 4 000 conscripts. They're meant to fill up a war unit. Maybe it's 4,500, I don't know. In the long run, it might go up to 8,000. But in the policy of the Swedish Democrats, we want to increase the number of war units. It requires a much larger number of conscripts. It is in our goal to have a much larger number of conscripts. What do we need them for? Well, among other things, we want them to be able to throw away in order to keep a good home guard, Mr President. The Home Guard's staff must come from somewhere, and it comes from conscripts. This needs to be taken into account in the forthcoming decisions, so as not to lock up first and foremost conscripts from brigades. Now even the Moderates have been withdrawn, who have also, albeit reluctantly, understood that military training is needed. There will be such a decision. My question to Daniel Bäckström is: How do you feel about taking heights for – as it is so popularly called – to bring in so many conscripts that you can staff even services in civil defense, in fire brigades and so on, and manage the return to the Home Guard?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-143	Mr President, I would like to Home Guard is an extremely important resource that today has been reasonably staffed and staffed. They recruit to the Home Guard through various routes. These 40 battalions play a very important role, and they are also an extremely good resource for maintaining capability development throughout the country. An investment in the Home Guard would allow for further capacity increases. I see that it is a reasonable way to go for Sweden to also be able to develop people's support and understanding of what the Swedish Armed Forces look like today. Combined with us having standing units that also means a readiness and the opportunity to have a quick cancellation time, these are important elements. The fine staff supply investigation carried out last year has presented a number of observations and suggestions. The challenge in terms of education in 2016 was that there were a smaller number of trained for the Swedish Armed Forces than the plan said. However, the number of applicants entering education is also lower than in the plan for 2017. These are major challenges. What the investigation proposes is to get up at a rate of 8,000 trained in the 20th century. This also involves an increased cost per year of SEK 2 billion. It is reasonable that we have a target of 8 000. We must reach that level and also be open to a combination. But the foundation is that we will recruit on a voluntary basis, for the absolute best from a defence perspective is to have engaged, motivated and willing employees and participation in the Swedish Armed Forces for the long term.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-146	Mr President, I would like to I take it rather kindly that you agree to this with yields. But in the budget that you presented before Christmas, you are investing nothing in civil defence beyond what the government is doing, Daniel Bäckström. When we compare this with the efforts we make, we feel a certain amount of concern. As I said, without strong civil defence, the military part will not work either. That is the opinion of the Swedish Democrats. It does not have to be a war situation, but it may be disasters, pandemics and other things that mean that the level of self-sufficiency we have today, for example, in terms of fuel and food, is not enough. Now we need constant deliveries, just in time, and so on. Building a society on deliveries is wrong in the opinion of the Swedish Democrats. We have to deal with that. To overcome this, money must also be invested in this activity and civil defence must be built up. It makes me a little worried. Before the Center abdicated a little from protecting the countryside, the Center felt that it stood up for the countryside in a different way. But you can look at the results during the eight years of the Alliance with closed dairy farms, closed shops and closed schools. It raises some concern when you look at this budget. My specific question is: how does the Center see spending funds also on civil defence? The real question is, why don't you do it now?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-149	Mr President, I would like to It is possible to read in the report how we think about future overall defence planning. In the 2015 defence decision, we contributed money to the Swedish Armed Forces. We also say explicitly that when we resume planning for total defence activities, we will come back to exactly how much needs to be financed and what our goals and ambitions are. The Swedish Armed Forces together with MSB produced a very good basis in June 2016. They will now deliver another important basis for the continued discussion and for future budget work in June 2017. There will certainly be a need for money for civil defence. But we also need a modern total defence and a way of thinking for the future. We need a solution that makes the use of civilian and military resources as effective as possible, that we find new synergies and also involve more people in the local community across Sweden. That's the foundation. If you read the defence decision and the report to today's debate, it says that civil defence should be coordinated as much as possible with total defence planning so that it can be integrated. That's what I'm behind. I am also following up on this recurring in our defence team together with the government's representatives, where we are currently discussing the progress of total defence planning and civil defence. I am prepared to discuss the timetable as well. It says that the work during the defence-oriented period should resume and begin. However, given the evolution of the security situation, it may need to be brought forward. Ambition needs to be as powerful as possible to meet the real, real, circumstances that today affect our society. As far as food is concerned, it is absolutely important. It is important to integrate the goals of food security and total defence planning so that we get a different basic view for Swedish food production.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-154	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party has two reservations in the report. I am, of course, in favour of both, but I am content to ask for the approval of reservation 9 on psychological defence, read NATO Stratcom. However, I would first like to say a few words about our second reservation, which concerns a rather unknown body for the public, namely Eda, the European Defence Agency. It was founded in 2004 and aims to develop defence capabilities, strengthen cooperation on armaments, strengthen the defence industry in Europe and promote military research and development. Eda is growing, and we have Swedish staff employed there on site. We believe that Eda is a step towards a militarisation of the EU that many people want to see and therefore urge that Sweden should leave Eda. Mr President, I would like to There are under the surface very strong forces in the EU that want to achieve a common defence policy with sharp and many teeth. It happens as usual without much media coverage and without popular support. Despite a growing populism and despite Brexit, nothing has been learned. There is another example that may be interesting in this context. Commission officials draw up a work plan for 2017. It notes that it has presented a European Action Plan in the field of defence exploring how EU policies and instruments can ensure that the industrial and knowledge base can provide the defence capabilities needed for today's and tomorrow's security threats. On the basis of this, the Commission will propose the creation of a European Defence Fund to promote research and innovation, contribute to strengthening the European defence technology and industrial base and stimulate the development of key defence capabilities. In addition, measures will be proposed in public defence procurement. The work plan drawn up by the Commission may be expressed by democratically elected parliaments and governments. They may have comments, but it is the officials of the Commission who decide on their own work plan in full and on their own behalf. It is European democracy when it is at its worst. The views of democratically elected bodies are treated as if they were of some kind of folk research. It's nice to hear what you think, but it's up to us. Well, I'm going to NATO Stratcom. We believe that Sweden should suspend existing cooperation with NATO Stratcom. We believe that there is a plethora of false rumours and disinformation campaigns in which NATO and its allies have been strongly driven. A Swedish membership makes Sweden an active part of NATO's propaganda work and disinformation campaigns. The aim is obviously that we should learn something from NATO about propaganda war. As the leading NATO nation, the USA with its US Stratcom has been the model for NATO Stratcom. US Stratcom describes its mission as follows: We will be leaders in strategic deterrence and undeniable global warriors in space and cyberspace. They're supposed to be indisputable global warriors. It's a little interesting. The Minister of Defence publicly aired the thoughts of membership on the very day that after many years Tony Blair apologized for the lies about Saddam Hussein's weapons of mass destruction. The invasion of Iraq was, as you know, preceded by one of the greatest disinformation campaigns in history. Erinras should also be the history that legitimized the Gulf War in 1991. It was that Iraq's army would have entered a hospital in Kuwait and killed children in incubators. Those kind of stories reveal the s immediately afterwards. But then the war was already a fact. Another example is the claim about how government troops in Libya carried out mass rapes. A Libyan psychologist was happily quoted who claimed to have sent out 70 000 questionnaires and received 69 000 answers in the midst of a burning civil war. It is a response rate one can only dream of in peaceful countries. NATO relayed the information about the fake survey, and the international media further spread it. Both Amnesty and a UN report a few weeks later stated that there was no evidence whatsoever of this, but it was completely ignored. Mr President, I would like to Just before Christmas, there was a parliamentary report in Britain. It gave official emphasis to the fact that the lies that were uttered before and during the Libyan war were just lies. It is a war that has left Libya's population in almost unimaginable suffering and hopelessness, created large flows of refugees and favoured the emergence of jihadism in the country, with overflows to Mali, which also Sweden is now involved in trying to combat. The Libyan war casts long shadows. NATO and NATO countries have caused three wars in the 21st century in Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya. Everyone has been possible because NATO, through its propaganda apparatus, has a total ideological hegemony. This is also evident in the debate in this House today. In May 2003, President Bush declared the war won. Now 13 years later, a thousand Iraqis die a month. The fact that this war is not described as genocide and that the rise of jihadism and subsequent refugee disasters are not described as a direct result of these wars can only be attributed to an effective propaganda apparatus that prevents it from being linked together. Now it's gone so far that NATO is going to assist the EU in managing refugee flows – which is pretty amazing – without anyone reflecting on NATO's responsibility as a producer of the same refugee waves. It also shows the effectiveness of the propaganda work. Of course, Russia also tries, sometimes with extremely clumsy methods and certainly sometimes with far more subtle methods. Sputnik News has pumped everything from alternative facts to pure lies. One example is the shooting of the MH17 over Ukraine. However, Sputnik News Swedish, Norwegian, Danish and Finnish editions have now been closed down, so there is not much to win on this path. But maybe we should clean up a little in front of our own door first? Recently, a report was first presented as coming from the Institute of International Affairs. When the flagrant insinuations were revealed, however, UI quickly distanced itself from the publication, and now it is said that there are two researchers at UI who have produced the subject themselves. There they lump together NATO and host country opponents, Aftonbladet's cultural page and the Swedish Peace and Arbitration Association with Russian influence operations. Martin Kragh and Sebastian Åsberg at the Swedish Institute of International Affairs are building – which is almost fun in this context – a large part of their accusations on statements by former SD co-worker Egor Putilov in one of his many identities. And indeed, the Minister of Defence has also fished in the same cloudy waters when he, pressed by his own dissidents as well, broadly portrayed opponents of the host country agreement as traitors. But no one confuses political demagogy with research. Well, NATO Stratcom will build on academic excellence. Can anyone in this House give an example of this in the work that has been produced? There is also considerable doubt about Stratcom's general values. It would like to clarify how Russia, with the help of the mass media, affects Euro-Atlantic values. That may sound like an important task. But can anyone in this House say what those Euro-Atlantic values are? And if so, how are they covered by the second largest NATO member Turkey and Erdo an, by Szyd ł o and by Orban? And by Donald Trump? Define what common Euro-Atlantic values we have! Let us look at the website and see what NATO Stratcom will do: NATO's civilian communication and outreach efforts are responsible for promoting awareness and building understanding and support for NATO's policies, operations and activities. These are military public affairs – promoting NATO's military objectives and targets to different target groups in order to raise awareness and understanding of military aspects of the Alliance. It is about information operations – coordination of military information activities to create the desired effect on the will, understanding and ability to support the Alliance's activities, missions and objectives. It is about psychological operations – targeted efforts to approved target groups to influence perceptions, attitudes and behaviours that affect the achievement of political and military goals. Mr President, I would like to So this has led us into Social Democracy and the Environment Party. I request the approval of reservation 9.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-173	Mr President, I would like to I think it was Otto von Bismarck who once said: There is never so much lying as before an election, during a war and after a successful hunt. I say this because I believe that, not least in the state of war, it is easy for people to perceive things in a way that is not always objective and objective. It exaggerates reports of the enemy, exaggerating events of various kinds. And maybe you don't even do it on purpose. Stig Henriksson now holds a long and very sharp count of the entire western defence and security policy during the 90s and 00s. I felt compelled to get up and react to the reasoning method that Stig Henriksson uses. Take, for example, Libya, Mr President, and alleged rapes. I do not know whether there have been rapes to the extent that Stig Henriksson told us about in the speaker's chair or not. But I can see that the armies of Muammar Gaddafis shot with artillerias right into civilian hospitals in Benghazi. I believe that it was much more the images of this than any misinformation that led the UN Security Council to intervene and urge its members to come to the aid of the civilian population. Mr President, I would like to The fact that you find a lie in an armed conflict in Afghanistan, Iraq or Libya does not mean that everything else is also a lie. I think it is important to emphasise this simple fact to Stig Henriksson.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-176	Mr President, I would like to No, I guess there's no one who manages to lie all the time. But it is quite clear that the arguments used – weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, children torn out of their incubators in the Kuwait war, mass rapes in Libya, etc. – were lies. That was a lie. That, of course, does not make Gaddafi a figure of light in world history, any more than Saddam Hussein or, by all means, Vladimir Putin. I can list numerous legitimate points of attack against them. However, as the British parliamentary reporter also noted, the attacks on Benghazi were also very hard to find. They were seven miles from Benghazi. What the United Nations resolution was about, and which, as far as I understand it, Russia was included, was a no-fly zone. How many days did it take to ignore the restriction on the no-fly zone and to take out Gaddafis's air force and more? Such betrayal also leaves long shadows. It is no coincidence that Russia uses this very argument and says: the West cannot be trusted. You should be a little careful when you break your vows. Again, this does not mean that Russia would not come up with a lot of influence operations. Sometimes it looks so awkward that you almost pity them, but they probably also do much more clever things. To be as one-eyed as both the Alliance's representatives and others have been and only see one side's errors in this area is frightening to me. I find the fact that we then align ourselves in NATO Stratcom with those who, with their lies, have created such unimaginable suffering, refugee disasters and Daish's emergence in the Middle East astounding. You can't be naive, our Secretary of Defense says. I agree with him.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-179	Mr President, I would like to So do I. I think that Stig Henriksson's reasoning on this and what he talks about has relevance. But an important perspective that I think Stig Henriksson is constantly missing – not only today but also on previous occasions – is the fact that when lies spread, consciously or unconsciously, within NATO, for example, it eventually leads to parliamentary and other investigations. There you really strive to find the truth and to publish it. NATO differs significantly from Russia in this respect. There is never any questioning. There lies will stand forever, and they will never be demented once. It is an important perspective that I think you have to have with you all the time. I do not know where Stig Henriksson has received all the different tasks. But I myself was a member of the Swedish Parliament when the intervention in Libya took place. There is no doubt whatsoever that the civilian population was threatened by the political leadership of the country at the time. I do not think, Stig Henriksson, that all the considerations that were made were based on incorrect information or lies. It was a precarious state where civilians were extremely vulnerable. The international community decided to intervene and Sweden stood up. I think we should have credit for that. I shall then say, Mr President, that with regard to the aftermath of the operation in Libya, the UN, NATO and everyone, of course, had a great responsibility. Much more would have been done to stabilise and rebuild the country immediately after the fall of Muammar Gaddafis.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-183	Mr President, I would like to Of course, there were abuses against the civilian population, which at last began to rise against Gaddafis's dictatorial rule in Libya. That is also why the Left Party supported the initial action on a no-fly zone despite the warnings that existed. In fact, they were spoken in this Chamber – I have looked at the minutes – by the representative of the Left Party who said that we were worried that it would not stop at that effort. That concern was extremely justified. As for the fact that lies are eventually revealed and that this happens in NATO but never in Russia, I would like to say that NATO never reveals its own lies. It is in spite of NATO that things are sometimes revealed 5, 10 or 15 years later when the damage is already done. Look at what happened to Iraq. 600 000 people had died up to 2006, and it is still over 1 000 a month because of, among other things, the lies about threatening weapons of mass destruction that did not exist and were just found leading up to the intervention. It is surely of little comfort to the Iraqis who are suffering and to those who are suffering from the refugee disaster and the rise of Daish, with all that it has meant for the population, that a British parliamentary report before Christmas revealed what it was like, and that Tony Blair apologizes for lying. What does it do for those who have already died? And it is not thanks to NATO that this has been revealed, but it is despite NATO. You have to remember that. Then I agree that freedom of the press in Russia leaves an extremely great deal more to be desired. There has been a gradual deterioration in the last 10 to 15 years, which is very serious. This affects not least its own Russian population, which is under severe pressure in many ways. But, once again, to join NATO Stratcom, with the track record that NATO has in terms of successful misinformation – which has led to two three wars depending on what is considered NATO war – I think would be astounding.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-188	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 3, which deals with a defence policy. That is what I intend to talk about here today. The security policy situation has deteriorated for Sweden in recent years. It knows the Swedish people; it is obvious that this is the case. The most important thing I want to say here today is that the decision we made with the orientation proposal needs to be updated. It was a step in the right direction, but now we have to add money this year and the coming years to be able to look to the future with confidence and also to the next generation be able to see that we did what we could to have a sufficient defence. This thing about having a defense is basalt. It is about defending our country against external threats and about securing peace. Having a threshold and having a defence that works is the greatest guarantee that you never have to use it. It is therefore extremely important to ensure that the defence functions satisfactorily. The development of the neighbourhood is not very encouraging. We see how Russia continues with its policy to try to increase its influence in its immediate region, especially in countries that previously formed parts of the Soviet Union. The occupation of Crimea continues, Mr President, and Russia seems to have no intention of ever returning the peninsula to Ukraine. Russian aggression in eastern Ukraine has not ceased. As we speak, the war continues there and people die. Support for various nationalist parties and movements in Europe is increasing, and the aim is to weaken and divide the EU and NATO. There's no need to doubt that. According to FOI's Russia report of 8 December last year, Russian capability to conduct large-scale military operations has increased sharply since the last report in 2013. The number of combatable units has increased by 40 percent in recent years. New materials are also being added continuously. Military armament is most evident in Western Russia, that is, the part that faces us. The strategy has also been given a more offensive direction. It is also, they say, a very determined policy to increase the patriotic spirit of the population, especially youth. Europe has been slow to respond to the increased Russian military capability. The countries that have reacted most clearly to the Russian threat are the Baltic countries and Poland. They will all have reached a level of 2 percent of the bnp invested in the Armed Forces by 2018. It is the view of the Christian Democrats that, in the long term, we must also reach 2% in order to be able to pay the bills sufficiently and have the necessary defence. It may be useful to point out that it is not too long ago that we have invested considerably more than we have done now. For example, we invested 2.4% of GDP in 1992. During the Cold War, we invested considerably more than that. It is good that a defence committee should start working, but it has the aim of 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025 and so on. It is good to have a long-term plan, but we also have to look at what it looks like in the near future, because it is in the near future, in the coming years, that the greatest risks exist. There is, according to the Christian Democrats, reason to have the Swedish Armed Forces review what could increase our defence capabilities in the near future. What measures could be taken? What shortcomings would need to be corrected? I believe, as the Christian Democrats have said in various ways, that there are a few things that we can point out directly. One thing is that we need to remedy the shortcomings we have in staff filling. Thousands of soldiers are missing today. It doesn't make sense. All units of war must also be given the opportunity to carry out longer exercises with full units. What I'm talking about is rehearsal exercises in three or four weeks with all the military units and all the personnel. It's simply that if you don't practice properly, it doesn't really work either. There is also a need for equipment. These are trucks that are absolutely essential for moving equipment. It is also about the need for ammunition to be acquired. The Armed Forces have ammunition, but we have too little and need more. This is something we could acquire. We would also need to reduce the vulnerability of missile operations and sabotage directed at airports, stores and other facilities. We could, for example, make sure to have more air bases, such as using civil airports. But then you have to make sure you have ammunition. Civil companies could be allowed to build it. It'll take time. So we could start with that already during this period of defence. We could also suspend the decommissioning of existing systems and put in place systems that can be renovated and modified. I think of things like the anti-aircraft systems Robot 70 and 90. They could be used. We're getting Archer. That's good. But some are put in storage. It could be bandaged so eaten. But it costs money. One could look at how much it takes for them to be out in the dressings, where they would do the most good. Gotland is of central importance. It has been in all times and still is. Now it is reinforced on Gotland. But if we're to be honest, that's not enough. We'd have to have heavy coast robot there, we'd have to have anti-aircraft and we'd have to have artillery. We should take measures that could make us more dangerous to a possible attacker. It is also a question of civil defence. The FRA recently produced a report showing that there are 10,000 attacks on Sweden per month from foreign power. There are IT spies that plan to be able to extinguish Sweden's electricity supply. Then we must reinforce the protection. Sweden would need to have a cybersecurity authority that would take the main responsibility. Today, all authorities have their own standards. It costs money, and it's not going to be good enough. Other countries already have such cyber security authorities. Sweden could and would need to strengthen protection in order to become less vulnerable. It's not just about military threats to Sweden; it's also about this kind of threats – cyber threats – to civil society. That's why it's important that we look at this. And we're not just going to look at it; we're also going to add money. These negotiations would have to be made in the near future to ensure that money comes into the spring amending budget and the coming years. The deal made was a trend break. But it needs to be added so that we can get a good enough defence to stand up to the threats in the near future. Last of all, I would like to say that it is great that we are developing cooperation with Finland. But why limit it to a country? There are 27 other countries in the EU. It is tragic that the government has a blind spot here, that it does not see that it is double standards. We are counting on NATO's support in the event of the worst happening. But we don't have protection. If we were to become members of NATO, that would also enable defence planning. It would strengthen security. The investigation carried out by Krister Bringéus shows that it would increase security for Sweden and our neighbouring countries and that it would be war retention.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-211	Mr President, I would like to You say you've been late, Mikael Oscarsson. It's an understatement, isn't it? You have not only been slow; you have actually participated in that group. Allan Widman rightly pointed out that he was not the chairman of the group. I told him he was. It was not correct, but he participated in it. Right should be right. But maybe it was a good thing he wasn't president. If Allan Widman had been, the closure might have gone even faster. But I'll leave that to you. So we haven't been late. Please speak for yourself, Mikael Oscarsson, and the alliance you were in then. We have tried over time to maintain a strong Swedish defence, and we shout feverishly for it to be strengthened. You know that well. We are pleased that you have now changed your mind and understand the value of a strong defence. However, I have a few questions: why does the KD not invest in a strong civil defence? In the draft budget that you submitted before Christmas, you did not. Have you figured it out now? What is it that makes you not bet on it? Do you not understand the value of what I was talking about in my speech and that of the Swedish Democrats, namely that we will have no perseverance whatsoever in the military, but a strong civil defence. Moreover, civil defence is not just for that purpose. Even in other times, in the event of epidemics, natural disasters and what can now happen in the outside world, we need a strong Swedish civil defence. But then you have to plan for and spend money on it. Why don't you?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-215	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats were in the defense arrangement, Roger Richtoff – unless it is known to you. It was a trend break. The Swedish Armed Forces are now, for the first time since the Cold War, receiving more money. You get 10.2 billion. It's also strange that Roger Richtoff didn't hear me talking hot for a civil defense. There is no government that can beat its chest and say: It has been cut back on defence throughout the 21st century. It's about seeing reality as it is now and making a difference. I would like to take this opportunity to ask Roger Richtoff how the declaration of solidarity really is. Do the Swedish Democrats really exclude military aid if the Baltics are threatened? We've talked about it several times. Sweden has made a declaration of solidarity and said that we hope to get help if the worst happens, but we have also promised to stand up. When you listen to the Swedish Democrats, however, it sounds from time to time like you may be prepared to send blueberry soup and some humanitarian aid if something happens in the Baltics. Is that so? I would like an answer to that question. If our Baltic friends are attacked, what is the Swedish Democrats' proposal that we help with? What about NATO? Is it still a white spot? Do you not see the double standards in that we need NATO's help but that you still do not want Sweden to become a full member?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-220	Mr President, I would like to That's a good trick, Oscarsson. I shall ask to speak again so that I can answer those questions. But now I intend to ask the Christian Democrats questions. I have answers to your questions. You mentioned the civilian defense. Okay, you're not betting on it, because you haven't thought about it. But it'll come later. After all, you have made a defence settlement which means that you cannot pursue this issue. But you are welcome to copy our parts in this paragraph as well. You said that Russia has upgraded and that we therefore need a strong Swedish defence. Is it to be interpreted as meaning that that change group would once again destroy what we are investing in now and in the future, if Russia suddenly, for some strange reason, would not continue with its rearmament, perhaps even to dismantle? Is that the policy KD stands for? So far it has been. KD does not understand the value of a strong Swedish civil and military defence over time, against someone who could attack Sweden. Today, there is no one who says, "We are going to attack Sweden, we are going to possess Gotland or we are going to do this." In Russian newspapers and other things – you can believe them if you want – Finland is instead praised for its foreign policy. It says that Finland can make whatever decisions they want and that Russia makes its decisions. Russia strengthens the borders with Is Kander robots in Kaliningrad and so on. You upload, as they say. But Sweden is not threatened if we join NATO – I am happy to come back to NATO. However, my question to Oscarsson was: if Russia were to cut back on capacity, will the implementation team again start to destroy what we spend hundreds of billions of our tax money on over time?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-225	Mr President, I would like to In our budget, for example, we spend extra money re-establishing the Board of Psychological Defense. We believe that it is necessary, given the impact operations we see, both in America and in Europe. In addition, we want to set up a cybersecurity authority. And we have a number of other suggestions. There should be no doubt that the Christian Democrats are strongly in favour of re-establishing civil defence. These are military threats which need to be addressed in the form of the purchase of ammunition and various types of equipment. This is an addition to the deal we have. The Christian Democrats agreed to the agreement because we saw that this could increase the funding. But now we need to move on, and that is the case, Roger Richtoff knows very well. Several times when Roger Richtoff has been up in the pulpit, this with Russia has become very strange. It seems that he does not see and does not hear what Russia is doing. This is the threat that Russia is proving to our Baltic neighbours and the threat of nuclear weapons. The deafness that appears to exist in the face of reality is astounding. If our Baltic friends are attacked, Sweden – listen now – will be withdrawn from day one. I am sorry that Roger Richtoff does not want to touch on the way in which he sees that it is only humanitarian aid. It's not much good in a war situation, I'll tell you.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-229	Mr President, I would like to I believe that Russia is a threat, but above all, to its own citizens. An undemocratic, authoritarian and corrupt regime is always a threat to its own citizens. But now we are perhaps not debating Russian domestic politics and its problems, but we are debating Swedish security. Then you have to think about the scenarios you can imagine. One can imagine an isolated Russian attack on Sweden and plan and dimension for it. Fortunately, no one in a sober state is counting on it. Bringéus also says that the risk of an isolated Russian attack on Sweden is largely non-existent. I guess that's the closest thing you can get out of a diplomat. The second scenario, which has been aerated here, is that we can get involved in a war that we have not initiated ourselves – much like Denmark and Norway during World War II. Then we are at war from day one," says Mikael Oscarsson. Absolutely, if we're in NATO. But the problem is that membership of NATO guarantees that we will be in that war whether we have chosen it or not. I think that's a little tricky. From previous debates, I know that Mikael Oscarsson believes that we should attack Russia in the Baltics, should the Baltics be attacked in any way, as Mr Bringéus says is highly unlikely. It would be interesting to hear: What scenario is Mikael Oscarsson's defence policy aiming at? Isolated Russian attack on Sweden? That we are to be happily involved in a war that we have not decided for ourselves? Or that we should attack Russia in the Baltic States? Finally, I believe that the horrors are mostly painted to justify the increase in defence appropriations, which in turn guarantees that we will seek membership of NATO. By chance, everyone seems to want to double the defence budgets. That is what NATO wants.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-235	Mr President, I would like to It is quite obvious that there is perhaps a little unexpected alliance in Swedish politics. Left wing and SD hooks arm. It will be very clear, because it is the two parties who say that we in the Swedish Parliament have a declaration of solidarity. We will not – as has been done historically – look away from the Baltics. We have looked away from time to time when the Baltics have been attacked. The Baltic countries are so close to us, but we have not bothered. But now we have said that we will be there. We will not look away in the future. We will act. But it is clear that the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats exclude military aid. It is perhaps a question of humanitarian aid, blankets and I do not know what you have in mind. But in reality, the military aid that the Baltic countries Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are asking for is the worst thing to happen. Let us be clear about Krister Bringéus's investigation. He does not say that the threat is imminent, no, but an attack cannot be ruled out. That's the big difference. If an attack cannot be ruled out, it cannot be ignored. It would be a betrayal of the Swedish people not to be prepared for it. Then the question is, what is the Left Party thinking? How's that gonna work out? Who is it, Stig Henriksson, who will be there for Sweden if we are attacked? If we manage for a few days, who will come and help us, Stig Henriksson?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-238	Mr President, I would like to No, nothing can be excluded, but that does not mean that you can plan and dimension for everything possible. The declaration of solidarity that Mikael Oscarsson wants means that, for the first time since the Great Power, we are to start sending troops across the Baltic Sea. Excuse me, but it's pure dreams. Finland, on the other hand, is very clear on this point. They say: It is clear that if the Baltics are attacked, we will help them in different ways – you have not really gone into the blanket level – but we cannot spare any military help. We have a long limit and few inhabitants ourselves. I think that Sweden should also be clear about this. Everything else is illusions that at worst can be dangerous. Mikael Oscarsson did not answer my question, but I interpret it as the scenario he sees in front of him. But Bringéus says that it is highly unlikely that the Baltics would be attacked and that we would then send military troops there and declare war on Russia. I think it is a policy of great adventure. The funny thing is that virtually all of Sweden's defence problems are solved when we join NATO and double the defence appropriations according to NATO's recommendations. Alla Baltic countries are members of NATO. But it is not enough if Sweden is not also galloping over the Baltic Sea and standing up. I don't make that logic go together, I have to admit. My alternative is not to even double the military appropriations so that we reach a two-tenth of Russia's military appropriations and a small fraction of the US military appropriations, but my alternative is that we invest in security policy, what has traditionally been the Swedish line, not that we build security together with NATO. We are going to build common security for disarmament, for relaxation, and that applies not least to nuclear disarmament. It is with these measures and with diplomacy, government contacts and research cooperation that we build security together.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-244	Mr President, I would like to As you want others to do to you, do to them. It's a rule that's very useful in life. What would happen if the worst happened that Sweden was attacked? Is Stig Henriksson even thinking that? If so, what kind of help would we need? Is it that our neighbours say that the situation is interesting and that you have to think about what to do? No, it's not like that. It is because we have adopted a declaration of solidarity because we want to say that we will not be neutral. That time is passé when Sweden was neutral. We will take a stand, and we will make a difference. For this there is a very large majority in the Swedish Parliament. It is important that it is found that there is a big difference there, unexpectedly enough, SD and Left Party hooks arm. It's probably very dangerous. If anything happens, there will be consequences. If we act in a way, it is clear that others say that there are consequences for the help that they might be willing to give. That is what NATO is ultimately about. The Christian Democrats and most of the Swedish people then think that it is better to prepare with their friends while time is and to join together than to improvise. That is the very essence of Krister Bringéus' investigation, that Swedish membership of NATO would be conflict retention. A Swedish government investigation has arrived at this. I understand that Stig Henriksson has read the investigation, but read it again with other glasses!
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-249	Mr President, I would like to On 16 June 2015, we met in this House, and we were five parties that supported the defence decision that we are now working on. It was a clear defence decision in which we said that the ability of the Swedish armed forces should be increased and that the overall defence capability should be ensured. This is not only what we talked about, but we also continued with the line that has been fixed for a while: We will invest in Swedish combat aircraft and Swedish underwater capabilities, and this will have a special position in the Swedish defence. We have a collaboration between the Swedish Armed Forces, the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration and the industry to succeed in this. During the journey, things have come to pass. Decisions on military service are now under way to strengthen the defence decision and to improve staff supply. We have activated coastal robot again in the Swedish defence, and we have brought Swedish troops forward on Gotland. There are clear things that have happened. What I think is important about this is that 70% of the Members of this House supported the decision, which means a change in Swedish defence policy. This is really the first time since the Cold War and after the end of the Cold War that we turn the curve in Sweden when it comes to investing in defence. Nevertheless, this is a milestone, albeit small. All this is good, because the foundation is always in the Swedish defence, how we rearrange it and how we do it. But it is clear that peace and freedom are being built together with others. Sweden is located on the Baltic Sea, and what is happening around the Baltic Sea is important to us. We work closely with neighbouring countries, of course with Finland, but also with the other Nordic and Baltic states and our neighbours. We are also in a Western community. The United States is an important country for us to work with. We are members of the European Union and of the United Nations, and these are organisations in which we exist and work. In addition to neighbouring countries, including cooperation with Finland, and the USA, the EU and the UN, NATO is, of course, also an organisation with which we can cooperate. We have decided in this House on host country agreements in order to be able to practice with these countries. However, on the Socialist side, we have said that membership is out of the question. We stand by this decision, but we would like to see cooperation with the organisation and, above all, with different countries. However, we have our basis in the Swedish defence decision. Mr President, I would like to Defence and military capabilities are important, but civil defence and total defence are, of course, also important in facilitating and enabling military tasks. With civil defence, we strengthen defence capabilities, we protect the civilian population and we can strengthen important societal functions. This could be about health care, electricity, telecommunications or the police. All of these are of course important things, and I am pleased that the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency, MSB, are now working on this. I think we're going to have to put more resources here. I am also pleased that the investigation Logistics for higher defence preparedness has arrived. It has looked at defence logic and seen that there are problems with how the distribution has taken place. I welcome the investigation's proposal that logistics and maintenance be more clearly transferred to the Swedish Armed Forces and that FMV is more responsible for investment and development. It is, of course, important that this collaboration should work so that projects do not become more expensive. Short-term investment decisions may incur long-term costs for the Swedish Armed Forces. Nevertheless, this is a step in the right direction. Mr President, I would like to I would like to return to the question of civil defence and talk a little about psychological defence. In the days and in recent weeks we have talked a lot about advocacy campaigns, cyberattacks, etc. Recently, this has been the case with regard to the impact on the US presidential elections and what has happened in recent days with regard to the President-elect. This is not something that does not affect Sweden. We see a large number of such attacks. The Swedish Defence Radio Agency has reported that quite a large number of attacks are taking place against Sweden. It may be about what we call trolls in social media, but there are also attacks on established media where false news is spread. We see that those who are behind this are becoming more and more persistent. They are aimed very much at segregated groups or groups on the outskirts of society, especially on the right and left sides of the political scale. Should you be self-critical, which I think you should always be, perhaps Swedish authorities have been a little naive in these matters. We've been unprotected and not really prepared. It is important to consider how this can be met and how to identify what is happening. Perhaps this is not just the responsibility of the authorities. We as a population and as citizens of society need to think about source criticism and whether some news can really be true. This is an ownership. What distinguishes us in the Western world from other parts of the world with more authoritarian regimes is our free and independent media. These have an important role to play in this. They are, of course, pressured by the reduction of costs, the reduction of editorial staff and the rapid release of news. This certainly makes things slip through sometimes. All of this is based on the fact that society has a stable infrastructure where this can work. It is good that we are working on the issues, and I am pleased that the membership of Stratcom enables us to work with others on this. The security situation around the Baltic Sea has deteriorated. Sometimes it may sound like it happened yesterday, but it has happened over a longer period of time. Of course, things happen in different parts of the world, but for us what happens around the Baltic Sea has of course affected us most. It should be said, however, that it is not just about the Baltic Sea and Russia. Problems in the Middle East – Syria and Iraq – and North Africa also have a clear impact on Europe. There is also political unrest in the West. This could, for example, be about the cohesion of the European Union or the management and administration of the United States. I think it is important to think ahead. I am pleased that the Minister for Defence and the Government have presented a new defence committee which will now start working. It will look at the total defense, Gotland, the war organization, a strengthened intelligence operation, the Swedish cyber capability and collaboration with Finland. Mr President, I would like to I believe that the Swedish people expect us in Parliament to take security and defence policy very seriously. Broad agreements provide for long-term sustainability and stability, which is important for Swedish security and defence policy. I therefore support and support the committee's proposal.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-267	Mr President, I would like to Mattias Ottosson argued that the 2015 orientation decision has turned the curve for the defence economy. The Defence Branch Managers have said in the Defence Forum during the autumn that they received a supplement of 10.2 billion but that they enter the period with a deficit of 30 billion. How is it possible for the Social Democrats to claim that the curve has turned? This is my first question. Mattias Ottosson also says that coastal robot has been resumed. Is the coastal robot tied up? Are they units where the coastal robot is manned? Have the regulations been drawn up? Have you practiced your duties? And if not, when is this meant to be done? It is only then, Mr President, that this will become part of the Swedish military defence capability. Defense... that's a word I often taste. If it had been said that defence agreement, it would have meant a very strong cohesion, but the fact that a deal has been made about the defence is almost the opposite. This, however, is now an accepted concept: the defence arrangement. Liberals have never been part of the defence settlement, but we can now see that the Center Party, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats have also said in recent weeks that there is a need for reinforcements during this term of office. Then my question is: do the Social Democrats think that there is still a working defence arrangement? The debate here in the speaker's chair today has indicated anything but that.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-271	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a rather small country in Europe and the world, but of course we have the right to our freedom of alliance and our way of ruling our territory. I think that is the basis, and it is, of course, based on our cooperating with other countries – that we build peace and freedom together with countries in our neighbourhood or countries with which we feel community and belonging. But I also believe that it is based on the fact that within the country, in the political parties, we can cooperate. I believe that defence, security and foreign policy are doing well when a small country tries to find as much cooperation and consensus as possible. It is, of course, about giving and taking; we are different countries. I am the first to regret that the Liberals are not involved in this cooperation. I think it would be good if you were a fellow player and a partner in the matter, because you have wise points of view and can add things. For the rest of us, it is, of course, a question of giving and taking up such a discussion. The decision we have now taken means that for the first time we are trying to turn the curve for Swedish defence. I think I belong to the last hill that moved in and did military service at the beginning of the 1990s, when we were still fully committed. Since then there has been a dismantling. I do not need to criticise my predecessors for that, although I may not think that you should have done what you did then. So, yes, something is happening now that a large number of parties are behind. The defence decision is solid, but then it has also come about and we have agreed that we should get the coast robot back on track. I think that's good. Is the defense agreement solid? Yes, I think that quite a lot of parties here today have testified that they are behind the defence settlement. It is not a party that has said no.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-277	Mr President, I would like to Now Mattias Ottosson is using the expression, and we are trying to turn the curve, and I am prepared to agree that it may be a relevant description. But the curve is not yet turned, and the Swedish Armed Forces are currently working on their budget base for 2018. I have a very strong suspicion that this budget base will show that, on a number of points, it is not possible to meet the commitments made in the orientation decision with that economy. I believe that the three alliance parties that were part of the defence agreement during this year and probably already in the spring bill will allocate new funds to the Armed Forces and the defence budget. If we still have a defence settlement then it is well determined whether the Social Democrats are prepared to do the same. Then I am a little conjured over Mattias Ottosson's line that Sweden has the right to be non-aligned. Yes, of course, you have the right to be non-aligned even if it is very difficult and requires much more of those countries that do not choose to cooperate with others even in the event of war. But it is my assessment that Sweden has navigated into a security policy no man's country with the new government, where on the one hand we reject NATO membership in every conceivable way and, on the other hand, we must understand that the very close cooperation we have with NATO – Host Nation Support, that we are gold-plated partners, that we practice together and so on – affects the world's view of our alliance freedom. And I do not believe for a moment, Mr President, that Swedish freedom of alliance has any credibility in Russia's eyes. So we have neither defence guarantees nor credible alliance freedom.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-281	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the world around us is changing all the time, and one must always take a position on this as a government and as a decision-maker. If new problems and conditions arise, it is clear that new funds may have to be allocated to the defence. I believe that the Socialist and environmental party government has been quite clear about this: it is prepared to try and discuss this issue. The Minister for Defence has made it very clear that the door is open; it is prepared to discuss. I don't know if the outside world has any doubt that we're non-aligned. We have been so for a long time, and a large majority of parliamentary parties have been behind it. The fact that we are part of a Western community and cooperate in the European Union, however, seems obvious to me, as well as the fact that we have no plans to become members of Russia, if that were the intention. This is out of the question! However, the right to pursue a policy where we are non-aligned but cooperate with those we want is quite self-evident, I think. I also feel a great deal of support from the Swedish people in this matter: that is the line we are going to take.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-284	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Mattias Ottosson. It concerns training and shooting fields and air bases belonging to the old base 90 system. I have mentioned this and several others have also touched on it in the Committee on Defence. Today there is still a phase-out and sale of air bases. In our view, we should put a stop to this, and that should happen now. Then we'll look at which training and shooting fields and which air bases we need for the future. It is very important that we do this as soon as possible, because the municipalities also need signals. In the case of municipalities, the decommissioning energy that has permeated the country in the past has meant that the Fortifications Agency has decommissioned the bases, which are sold, and to some extent they are based on the training and shooting fields, or are planning to build. However, there is no clear signal from the government. I have several examples of this, in case anyone doubts what I am saying. My specific question is therefore: are the Social Democrats and the government prepared to tackle this immediately, so that we have time to sit down and go through what we need for the future, when civil defence is to be reclaimed? What do we need for air bases to not drop these parts? There are good opportunities to act quickly. It won't be quite right, but it will be much better than if time goes by. How do you view this?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-287	Mr President, I would like to With the new defence decision, we are investing in the Swedish Armed Forces. We are trying to turn the curve and rearrange the Swedish defence, and of course we have a lot of focus on how to solve the manning; that's why we're talking about military service. The matter of matter is of course very important – that you have the right equipment and that it is modern. I think Roger Richtoff has a point here: It is of course about solving the ability to practice on our shooting fields. Our flight bases are important, but perhaps it is a little different because we have developed a combat flight system that should be mobile and allow you to land both here and there. But, of course, when it comes to the shooting fields, it is very difficult. I know what it's like in today's town to open new shooting fields, with environmental tests and such matters. As an old councillor, I also recognize the frustration when you don't get any news. I am quite convinced that the Swedish Armed Forces, together with the Swedish Fortifications Agency, are considering these issues. It is clear that the increased dimension of the Swedish Armed Forces means that we need more practice areas. Then it is clear that they should not be closed. On this issue, I share the same view and believe that it is an important issue.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-291	Mr President, I would like to As far as the question is concerned, I understand that Mattias Ottosson cannot stand here and tell us what to do. But it's about bringing back a message. I would like to stress the urgency of the matter. This is the signal I think Mattias Ottosson has commented on. It's urgent. Sometimes you have to act quickly, and I hope you do, so that in four or five months we don't sit around and say: Damn it, we missed this! Then you may have to buy back parts of this. I very much hope that you will get to grips with this. I also believe that we have a Minister of Defence who would be well worth taking into account in this context. Another point I would like to raise is the issue of NATO, which we often drift into. There we have the same view, as is the Left Party. I have no problem with the fact that we have a consensus here. We are a long way from each other on other issues. Some people have problems with us feeling the same – we may not really have the same starting point, but we end up in much the same conclusions. If the Left Party is in, what difference does it make? Now we think the government has a good defence policy. We have a Minister of Defence who is good and tries to pursue these issues. That's the way it is. He gets respect everywhere. The freedom of the Alliance is good. I think we can develop it. We also have a seat on the Security Council. I think we can be a mediation link. I think it is also very important to talk to your neighbours about security policy. Do not create enemies, but talk to the neighbours as an unaligned nation, as Finland does! It's not wrong. It's not about being evasive, it's about showing clarity. Talk to the neighbours within the framework of the freedom of alliance! ( Andre VICE TALMANN: I would ask the honourable Member to think about the use of well-kept language and avoid profanity in the speaker's seat. )
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-295	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the exercise activities, I think it is important, like Roger Richtoff, that the Swedish Armed Forces have practice activities and practice areas now that we are expanding it. I see that cooperation between parties is good, but it is also a question of working together on how to finance the business. Social democrats and Swedish democrats probably differ quite radically when it comes to the financing of an expansion of Swedish defence. Of course, it puts sticks in the wheel. There is no need for cooperation.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-296	Mr President, I would like to Mattias Ottosson is happy about many things. Perhaps it belongs both to his temper and to his role as government representative. I do not want to cloud the joy but to question it precisely with regard to NATO Stratcom. I will not repeat everything I said earlier about NATO Stratcom. But let me once again quote a little from the objectives that can be found on their website: Stratcom's civil communication and outreach efforts are responsible for promoting awareness and building understanding and support for NATO's policies, operations and activities. Militaryly, NATO's military objectives and targets shall be promoted to target groups in order to raise awareness and understanding of military aspects of the Alliance. In the field of information operations, military information activities shall be coordinated in order to create the desired effect on the will, understanding and ability to support the activities, missions and objectives of the Alliance. Psychologically, methods, communication and other means should be used to influence perceptions, attitudes and behaviours that affect the achievement of political and military goals. In view of what I previously related about NATO's military objectives and how things have gone in Libya and Iraq, where the lie as a weapon has been waged and started war, is it really social democratic policy for us to get involved in Stratcom? Does it not hurt a little, with a little sadness, at the otherwise happy Mattias Ottosson, when we are actually members of NATO Stratcom?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-300	Mr President, I would like to I hope that Stig Henriksson shares my view that the impact campaigns and cyber attacks that are currently taking place are a problem and that it creates problems for society. It is an international activity; it is not just happening within Sweden's borders, but it goes between countries faster than the light, I was about to say. States and organisations as well as individuals may be involved in this. This must be countered in some way, and we must cooperate with other countries wisely. Then I think NATO Stratcom is a good organisation. The Member States that are there are the Baltic and Western European countries – Germany, Central Europe and so on. These are the countries with which we share and cooperate. What is common to us and perhaps a sort of value base is that we have free and independent media, that we have a legal system that works and that we are democracies. For me, these are very fundamental social democratic values, and then it is quite obvious that we can work together to counter this illegal activity which creates problems for us.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-303	Mr President, I would like to Yes, influence surgery is a problem, but we're not so naive as to think they come from one side only. We see that several wars over the last few decades have been started because of influence operations and pure lies, which have been revealed in retrospect. They have claimed hundreds of thousands of deaths. Yes, it can be good to cooperate if it makes a difference. But it should be based on academic excellence, and nothing NATO Stratcom has so far produced has meant the least of academic excellence. For the same money, I'm sure we could get more out. Maybe we shouldn't hire the Institute for Foreign Policy, which has gone down a little bit in this swamp, but there are others who can be of service. But working with NATO to counteract misinformation is really putting the goat as the herb garden master. You cannot deny that lies led to the invasion of Iraq. It was pure lies that led to the invasion of Libya, etc. It is amazing that this is Social Democratic policy in 2016 and 2017! NATO Stratcom must also defend Euro-Atlantic values. That sounds nice. What exactly are the values we share with the second largest NATO member Turkey and Erdo中an? Who do we share with the incoming President Donald Trump? Who do we share with the Prime Minister of Poland, Szydło? Poland has a number of government members who speak on many different issues in a way that makes Donald Trump seem nuanced, which some say. What Euro-Atlantic values do we share with Orbán in Hungary? He wants to aim for an illiberal democracy, whatever that means. Perhaps it would be good to clarify this. Some of them are also members of NATO Stratcom. We shall share values and work with them to help NATO achieve its political and military objectives. Where's the world going?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-307	Mr President, I would like to I share Stig Henriksson's view that the problems come from different sources. It may be from Russia, but many Western countries and organisations may also be responsible for advocacy campaigns. What is basically important is that we build our own Swedish ability. The FRA is an activity that is knowledgeable and skilled in this area. It is possible to strengthen this activity but also to strengthen civilian preparedness. I think that's the basis. But in the next step, we will also cooperate with other countries and exchange information with each other. It is clear that we should have our own intelligence and protection system. As a result, we sometimes make other decisions. We were not part of the Iraq war, but we made our own Swedish assessment in that case. It shows, I think, that it works. It is no surprise to me that we are cooperating with countries that believe in free and independent media, in the rule of law and in democracy. I think that's pretty obvious. But we Social Democrats say no to NATO membership – that depends on many things. And we know that Turkey is a country with authoritarian rule, which is heading in the wrong direction. Of course we do not see that we want any closer cooperation with them.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-311	Mr President, I would like to Mattias Ottosson highlights many perspectives that are linked to our joint agreement, which forms the basis for the Swedish Armed Forces' ongoing work. It is also about the conditions for future defence preparation. We in the Center Party are concerned that this should be an important starting point for the future and that we can continue to develop our defence capabilities and also have a broad consensus on these issues in the short term and also in the longer term. At the same time, we have a starting point in the images and circumstances we live with on a daily basis. It requires a perspective in leadership where you are prepared to make further assessments and efforts and also to make complementary decisions to ensure that we have sufficient ability to meet the development of external capabilities. How does Mattias Ottosson estimate our relative defence capabilities, when compared with other countries in our neighbourhood? Are the Social Democrats prepared to give a mission to the Swedish Armed Forces in the near future, i.e. in the next few weeks, to get an in-depth analysis of what needs to be done in addition to the defence decision? This applies to the ability-raising efforts in the various areas of the military force, but also to additional money for the Armed Forces.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-314	Mr President, I would like to I am fully aware that our defence capabilities are not entirely perfect. We have been equipping ourselves for quite a long time since the Cold War. I believe that all parties in Parliament are complicit in this. This happened during the eight years of the alliance government, but it also happened during the previous Social Democratic governments. This means that we are now uphill. But then I am very happy that we have been able to find such a large and broad deal together. It's about how we're going to strengthen this. We can work together and increase the ability of our military units. We have now started work on getting troops back on Gotland, for example. Gripen E is on his way, and we're going to have new submarines. So a lot is happening. I think this must continue. I do not think it is a good idea to say that I believe that the defence needs to have more resources in the future and that we need to provide more resources. But I also believe that we can do it together with different parties. I believe that there is a future for the defence group that we have and that we can solve it together. But the basis for this is that we have a close dialogue with the Swedish Armed Forces. What needs do they see that they have? This is something that is constantly going on. You evaluate your business and look ahead. It is clear that dialogue with the Swedish Armed Forces is extremely important. What needs do they see in the future?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-318	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to repeat the question. Is Mattias Ottosson prepared to work for the government to give a mission to the Swedish Armed Forces, in the short term, to produce a complementary analysis of what needs to be done further this period of defence orientation? I wonder that given the deteriorating security situation, which continues to deteriorate. Not least, it has deteriorated significantly since the Swedish Defence Committee was finished with its work. You can listen to what the Commander-in-Chief says in various contexts, including interviews. He welcomes the debate now taking place on additional resources for defence. We had it up at the Sälen Conference a few weeks ago, and it will certainly come back on more occasions. You can see a gap between the requested ability and the money – how far it goes. We are also aware that more could be done when the decision is negotiated. But now there is a need for further parts. Not least, you need to do an analysis. At the same time, it is clearly stated by the government and by the Social Democrats that the non-alignment line is solid. Then there's a question. If you are not prepared to work for a Swedish NATO membership and at the same time are not prepared to further strengthen with more money to the Swedish Armed Forces, I wonder: How can responsible leadership make the overall picture go together? You cannot wait four years for the next defense decision to begin without having the assurance that we will manage our security if something unexpected happens, given our strategic position.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-322	Mr President, I would like to This is, of course, difficult matter. It's always like that when decisions are made. Projects may be delayed, and they may be brought forward. It goes back and forth. This must, of course, be elevated, and one must be prepared to face it in different ways. I know how we work in committee. We always have a close dialogue with the Swedish Armed Forces to get reports about the situation. The Swedish Armed Forces actually make that assessment daily. Should something happen that means that we have to put something in place, there is that possibility. I think that the government and the Minister for Defence have made it clear that this transparency and preparedness exist. Things have been going on since we made our defense deal. The Archer solution was there. More resources were added to the last budget decision, and there was a broad consensus on it. So there is readiness, and I think we can find a deal if something happens. Sure, the security situation around us is special. I do not want to say that it changed dramatically yesterday or today. But it has deteriorated for a long time, and of course we must take this into account. In fact, I come back to the same argument with regard to NATO. For us, it is important to have our freedom of alliance and to cooperate with other countries, primarily Finland and the other Nordic countries. It is also a question of cooperating with the NATO organisation, but it does not include membership. It is clear that we are in that family and in that reality with those countries. It's about working together. But when it comes to membership, we have the ultimate opportunity to govern ourselves.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-326	Mr President, I would like to Mattias Ottosson said in the debate that our voters expect us to take defence and security policy seriously. I can only agree with that. However, it can also be noted that there are different choices in Parliament despite the fact that there are collaborations and agreements. There are some choices that might make us different. We want to strengthen the Swedish Armed Forces financially. We will see if the Social Democrats and the Green Party want to follow in this direction; there will be a future discussion. But we also have a different view on cooperation. We believe that bilateral cooperation is good. The Social Democrats have focused more on cooperation with individual countries. For example, the United States is a nation with which Sweden cooperates. As I said in my speech, in the light of the American elections, one can also consider what Joe Biden promised when he was in Sweden. He then stated, in that sense, that the Swedish nation is inviolable. The question then arises as to what the Social Democrats attach to this statement, since they have said 'no' to multilateral cooperation in the form of NATO, but to a large extent commit themselves to individual cooperation, particularly with the United States, which is a major player in the world and the largest in the military. Is it still equally topical to trust that the United States will help in the event of a conflict? Now that it is a new President who is to rule the United States, we should also know that we are not a NATO country, so there are no obligations to the United States. My question to Mattias Ottosson is therefore: what importance do you attach to the statement made earlier by the Vice-President of the United States?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-329	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to funding and support for the Swedish Armed Forces, the Social Democracy door is open for discussions and discussions, and we hope that we can find broad agreements that are good for the Swedish Armed Forces and Swedish security. After all, we have a number of bilateral cooperations with different countries on the defence issue, and it is clear that we should not underestimate the importance of the United States in this. It is a great power that has a great military capacity, of course, and as in all other democratic countries you have elections and you change leadership. I guess I'm not in any case a follower of President-elect Trump. He has made a lot of statements in both the one and the other direction that you almost find hard to take seriously, but maybe you should do that. I think it is important to remember that the United States is a state that has entered into an agreement, and as long as they have not changed the agreements they have with Sweden, I think you will probably have to take this when there is a change and think about it then. There are some other things that I am concerned about and that I think should be considered, and that is the change that has taken place in Europe and Europe with the UK Brexit vote and that it now wants to leave the EU. Regardless of who has been President of the United States, they have indicated that Europe must take a greater share of the funding of defence of Europe. Britain is perhaps the strongest military nation in Europe and, of course, NATO. If the UK leaves the EU, perhaps we should also think a little about what the cooperation with the UK looks like for Swedish security.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-334	Mr President, I would like to I also mentioned this in my speech, as well as the possibility of actually contributing to British cooperation with many of our neighbouring countries. I hope that we can open up to that, too, because I think it would be important both for our ability and for the preparedness of our near world. Now that I have Mattias Ottosson, I still have to ask another question. The Social Democrats have a tradition of wanting to participate in multilateral cooperation, but just when it comes to NATO they say in principle no. However, the Social Democrats have been driving and are in favour of both the host country agreement and NATO Stratcom, and we are constantly training with NATO troops and countries. There we are. It was a former Finnish Minister of Defence who described Finland, who has a situation similar to that of Sweden in relation to NATO, and said that membership of NATO is about the same drama as when a tax settles – that is, a very small movement. We are basically fully included, and we are already part of the sphere of countries that have this community of values, and therefore the movement is to have full membership with the guarantees that it provides very little. It would also contribute, as has been noted by the government's own investigators, to increased security both in Sweden and in our surrounding world and in the Baltic Sea region. My question to Mr Ottosson is therefore: what would NATO have to change if membership were to be considered for the Social Democrats?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-338	Mr President, I would like to I think the most important thing is that we focus on building up Swedish defence capabilities so that the Swedish defence has the capacity to secure our borders and our territory. It's number one. Then I think that we should have collaborations, and I have been very clear that you do not build peace and freedom alone, but that is something you do together. Then I think priority is one of cooperation with Finland, because Finland is also a country that is outside NATO and located on the Baltic Sea. I think it is important to remember that we can cooperate with countries that are around us, but basically it is about strengthening our own defence. No one else will do that for us, even if one can sometimes get that view. Then one should remember, and there Jan R Andersson and I share the same view, that we are in a community. Our neighbours on the other side, Denmark and Norway, are members of NATO, and it is clear that we cannot remain completely neutral if they become involved in any conflict. It shows history that we have not done either. These are countries that in the near future have been occupied and in war, and then we from the Swedish side have supported and helped. There is no conflict in that, but I do not think that we should be members of NATO. We can have these important bilateral cooperations, and what is most important is that we build up Swedish defence capabilities, because nobody else will do that for us. Finland will not, NATO will not, and the United States will not, but we must do it ourselves.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-343	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I understood that reality has caught up with the defence settlement and that we need to spend more money and update the defence settlement both this year and the coming years in order to respond to the urgent needs that exist. I mentioned material, ammunition and exercises in particular. My question will be: Is Mattias Ottosson's party, the Social Democrats, prepared to make such an update and to spend the billions that will be required this year and the coming years in order to increase defence capabilities and respond to the needs that exist? The second issue concerns NATO. During the Cold War we had a doctrine that said that we are non-aligned in peace aimed at neutrality in war. Now it is a very long time ago, and when we joined the European Union we cut off the ties to the idea that we could ever be neutral again. My question will be: If this is the case that freedom of alliance is aimed at neutrality no longer exists, what is the purpose of Sweden being non-aligned?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-347	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the defence arrangement and the future of it, I think that is a good basis to stand on. It is a reversal in Swedish politics that is needed, and most parties seem to agree on that at present, even those who are not in the settlement. One of the major challenges at present is the lack of women and men in the Swedish Armed Forces. Not all seats are filled. The lack of people is one of the most important things to get to grips with. But there is also a need for materials and equipment. It is, of course, needs and demands that we need to reflect on. Then the world can change. It can go fast or it can go slower, but we need to keep a watch on that all the time. The signal from the Social Democrats and the Green Party in the government is that the door is open. We are prepared to have that kind of conversation when the need arises. If there is to be one crown, two crowns or how many crowns there should be, we can talk about. The door is open for conversation so that we can move on if anything changes. Such decisions can be made at all times. Budget decisions are made every year. I share Oscarsson's view that in the future the defence will need more resources. I cannot tell you today how much, but I think that is what we are seeing.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-351	Mr President, I would like to There is another chance to answer the question of NATO, that neutrality is gone and what freedom of alliance is aimed at. It is good that there is an understanding that more money is needed for the Swedish Armed Forces. But we do not get far with one or two crowns to fill the staff shortage in the military units. Thousands of soldiers are missing. To carry out longer exercises with full combat units or to acquire equipment quickly, such as trucks, costs many millions. Ensuring access to types of ammunition that are currently lacking also means that hundreds of millions need to be taken in. Investing in restoring the air bases needed to spread our JAS aircraft also requires additional funding. Air defence and heavy coastal robot to Gotland is about money. In order for Robot 70 and R Obot 90 or Archerhaubits from Norway not only to be put down in the basement but instead to be used, bandaged and become dangerous to a possible attacker, it takes more than one or two crowns. We appreciate that the door is open – that's a good thing – but then I hope that there is also an understanding that it will take substantial contributions already this year and the coming years if this is to work.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-353	Mr President, I would like to One should start at the end that a rearmament of the Swedish defence is the important thing. International cooperation will never solve that problem. Should we be involved in international cooperation? If we are to cooperate with Finland or with the countries of the European Union – it is a kind of alliance that Sweden is involved in – it is about building up Swedish defence. There are no shortcuts. Membership of NATO would not solve the problem. The important thing is our own ability. At present, I believe that bilateral agreements can be developed and improved. It is a way for Sweden to create security and security around our country and the world around us. At the moment, that is quite enough. There have been many discussions about NATO and funding. Oscarsson came into detail about what is not working and what should be done. We should also remember that the women and men who are present in Swedish defence today have a high level of competence. I am impressed by the efforts they make. In the various international collaborations that Sweden is involved in, we get a lot of praise for the expertise and knowledge that exists among them. We'll take that to heart. Sometimes in our discussions and debates, it sounds like the defence is completely useless and can't handle anything. That's not really the picture the outside world has of us. There is a high level of competence. Of course, that competence should be strengthened and developed even more.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-356	Mr President, I would like to When I spoke in this Chamber at the end of last year, I noted that the world situation is more uncertain than in a long time. Now, a bit into the new year, this is still largely true. Although Trump has reported his cabinet, there is a great deal of uncertainty as to which foreign and security policy will be pursued for the United States. Nor do we know how Brexit will develop. The tensions between the EU and Russia persist, as do the wars in Ukraine and Syria. However, some things have become clearer since December. At Folk och Försvar i Sälen just over a week ago – where many of us in this House were present – the Minister of Defence announced the appointment of the new Defence Committee and also presented the directives. It is positive that we can soon begin to analyse the international situation and in the longer term what needs the Swedish Armed Forces will need to meet in order to deal with that reality. I know that many people in here have been eager to start the work of the Committee on Defence, which is evident not least in the motions that have been received by the Committee. My picture from this and previous debates is that among us defence policies there is broad agreement on the deteriorating security situation. I look forward to discussing the issues in a structured way within the Defence Committee. Overall, it is clear when you look at the motions and reservations that have been received that much of what the opposition parties are asking for is what the government is working on. In addition to the defence preparation that is now to be set up, the issue of cyber capabilities is also a good example. There is already a mission for the Swedish Armed Forces to develop an active cyber capability. Increased cooperation with Finland is also an example. This is something that is called for in several reservations, and it is also something that the government is working on. The fact that the opposition's criticism in several parts is similar to what the government is already working on may also indicate that the government is still doing a good job. I note that in recent months the alliance parties have started to differ more in defence policy. It is primarily about funding. The Moderates want to invest 8.5 billion in the coming years. The Center wants 11 billion a year. The Christian Democrats have a long wish list. Liberals want to raise the defence budget to 2%. It's sprawling some within the opposition. Here, for all intents and purposes, the representatives tend to point out that they are pulling in the same direction – and you could say that they are. At the same time, however, Liberal Party leader Jan Björklund notes that the parties need not agree on the defence policy until after the elections. In this respect, I would like to stress the importance of the long-term nature of defence policy. The point where the bourgeois opposition has nevertheless managed to unite is that of the need for yet another NATO investigation, as indicated in reservation 4. Of course, my line and that of the government are solid. Our foreign policy is not the valet of a sharp caste. Both Sweden and the surrounding area benefit from Sweden having a role where we work for de-voltage – and we do that best as an alliance-free country. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-366	Mr President, I would like to There were wise and perceptive reflections from Anders Schröder about what the situation looks like and what moves in relation to the outside world, based on our joint decision on the direction of the defence and the resources ahead. I would like to ask how the Green Party is thinking about future defence preparations. What are we prepared to do when it comes to increases in appropriations for the next period of focus? We have now jointly laid the foundations for the years that remain until 2020 in the form of an additional EUR 10,2 billion for defence. How does Anders Schröder view the future? Which areas should be given priority when it comes to weighting between the civilian and the military, but also between different areas, including hybrid warfare? Anders mentions cyber abilities and other things.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-369	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. It has two parts if I understood it correctly – both the money and what the money should be used for. As far as resources are concerned for the next defence decision, I have stated in the past and in the media that we are seeing a deteriorating security policy situation. We agree on that. This, in turn, means that the defence has a greater need, perhaps more threats to face and a greater challenge. It should reasonably be reflected in some way in future priorities. I'm not going to negotiate the budget here-- I don't have a mandate for that. But I am sure that those discussions will come. As far as priorities are concerned, I see that there are many things that need resources. However, I note above all the issue of influence operations, which have grown a lot in recent years. We all know the examples, most recently from the United States. We have discussed many European examples here. But even the civilian parts are worth thinking about. It may not be a civil defence in the same way as during the Cold War, but resources will still be needed there. As Daniel Bäckström noted in his debate with Roger Richtoff earlier, the authorities will present what they are asking for later this year. We will see how we can work with it in the best way.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-373	Mr President, I would like to There are barely four years left of this focus period. After the three years that lie behind us and the ongoing work of the then defence committee, which analysed the situation then and the prospects, we see that the situation has changed in many different areas. The world around us is changing, and the security situation is also affecting us. Four years ahead is a longer period. My question to the Environmental Party Representative is whether the Environmental Party is prepared to actively take responsibility for ensuring that there will be additional money this focus period and that the Government is involved in quickly giving a mission to the Swedish Armed Forces to take stock of what needs to be done further, in addition to the defence decision we took together in this Chamber in 2015, both to strengthen the various areas of the Armed Forces and to be able to meet the international developments that are taking place. The relative development of capabilities is significant, not least in Russia. How will the Green Party take responsibility for ensuring that this period is as stable and as good as possible over these four years?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-376	Mr President, I would like to I am following the world situation, just like everyone else in this House. We must constantly update our policies and assessments based on what is happening around us. Like the Minister for Defence, I am prepared to discuss, within the defence group or the defence preparation or whatever you want, different ways of also increasing the capabilities of the defence in the short term. But such discussions should be taken in those forums, I think.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-378	Mr President, I would like to I've got flu suites, but I'm not contagious, so even the environmentalists can be happy. We do not need to participate in the bidding, Mr President, because in our budget we have put more than 25 billion more than the government and the alliance parties – the Liberals except – invest. However, we do of course think that when the Swedish Armed Forces now present what we all know, that the money will not be enough for various reasons, one must look at what one wants in addition to what is included in the orientation decision. It will be very interesting to look at it. We are, of course, prepared to reason in order to bring that money there, but we do so in the usual way: we sit together and prioritise between the committees. For the Swedish Democrats, the defence of Sweden is very high and sometimes the highest priority. We ask concretely: why does the Green Party not invest? How do you view civil defense? In that budget, you do not have any direct investment. We are spending 4 billion more over this period. How does the Green Party view this? What is it that makes you not push that question or that, if you do, you do not reach it? Is it that you do not understand the importance of civil defence? That was the first question. I can squeeze in another one in the time I have left. You say you're making assessments of what's going on around here. I take it it's supposed to be an increased threat or something else. My second question is: how does the Green Party feel about maintaining a strong defence over time, not one that fluctuates depending on events around us, but a strong defence over time, preferably in association with Finland?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-384	Mr President, I would like to Civil defence is something that the Green Party likes to talk about and likes to highlight. The gradual phasing out of this was something that we were sceptical about. I think more will have to be done there in the coming years. As I said, it does not necessarily have to look like the Cold War. Society has changed. But things still need to be done. It is as Daniel Bäckström told us here before: The authorities have been commissioned to present what they need and will come in with it in June. I look forward to watching and going through it and seeing how we can respond to those requests in a good way. As far as the threat is concerned, Roger Richtoff highlights the need for a strong defence over time, regardless of location. That's what you might think. I think there's a value in having a defense that's adapted to the world situation. We could have kept the invasion defense we had at the end of the Cold War. It cost 21⁄2 percent of bnp. If we had, it would have cost about 400 billion over 20 years. It's quite a lot of money, which you can spend on other things. I think it was reasonable to re-prioritise there. Now we have a different security policy situation, and then we have to take it into account. Of course, there is a limit, and one must also be aware that a change takes time. But we need to make an assessment based on how we view the world situation.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-389	Mr President, I would like to This means, to make a reflection, that the Green Party adapted and thought it was good that they made an adaptation. Say that this adjustment has cost around 200 billion if the Green Party has been able to manage, as has been done in itself, i.e. 200 billion to phase out. We are now putting budgets in place, and we are going to strengthen the budgets. Billions of tax dollars will go to rebuild this. I am deeply concerned about that policy. We shall have an adaptation of the defence – a reduction, which I interpret the Green Party. If, for various reasons, the outside world becomes calmer, then we will destroy the systems again. Then we pop them up again and hope that the withdrawal period for a strong Swedish defence of 10 – 15 years will suffice. I am deeply concerned about that view. But on to my specific question. We managed to stop the windmills in Hanö Bay. The interests of the defense are so strong that we cannot release the Bay of Hanö. My view is that the Green Party was very hesitant to allow the interests of the defence to take precedence over these windmills. I would like a correction to this view. Is it wrong? And how does the Green Party view the interests of the defence, which may clash with the subsidized windmills that the Green Party says are great?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-394	Mr President, I would like to It is always a balance when it comes to wind farms and the kind of conflicts that can arise with the Swedish Armed Forces. It is the job of politicians to make priorities between different interests. We must, of course, listen to both sides in these cases. With regard to energy independence, and not least the climate issue, I would like to remind you that these are also two important security interests. It is important that we can stand free and produce our own electricity. It is valuable in itself to Sweden. It is also very valuable that we avoid the security problems that will come if we do nothing about climate change, and if we allow the temperature to increase so that people have to move. Then we get large migratory flows, which the Swedish democrats don't usually like very much. This is important to prevent. Then we must also switch to sustainable energy systems.
i-38PgTArJc5DEAGgtyEtjmS	Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I only ask for reservation 12. Some central perspectives all parties agree on, such as the fact that military defence does not even work for short periods of time without a civil defence. Civil defence provides the military with resources, while military defence is a shield for the civilian. Together, military and civil defence are a total defense. The increasingly pronounced hybrid character of modern war means that total defence must be increasingly complete. That's why we define it as a defense of existence. Unfortunately, today we have no defence of existence, but only a defence of intervention. An intervention defence is a defence based on battalions that can be deployed individually, especially in international peace operations. And Swedish soldiers have made and are making fantastic contributions to these operation battalions. But now that, in accordance with the 2015 defense decision, we have decided that the invasion defence will be reclaimed, we are facing a major challenge. Our defense will once again become a system of systems. It will work even if we are subjected to attack and sabotage on our own territory. For a long time – unreasonably long, we believe – we have now been waiting for the government to come up with its bill on the new civil defence. That is why we have already started to reserve funds for civil defence this year in our draft budget. The new civil defence, as we see it, cannot be completely new. On several points it should be based on the abolished system. For example, emergency stocks must be set up, and within the total defence system must be re-established. We want MSB to be dismantled and its personnel transferred to FOI and to a new civil defence authority. The Civil Defence Authority shall be an operational authority with its own commanders but subject to the government, county administrative boards and municipalities at the various levels. The Civil Protection Authority must also have a number of departments corresponding to the most necessary needs of society in times of war and crisis. One feature that is much talked about but which has been done very little about is the cyber defence. Here we have lost a lot of years through passivity. Now, in some cases, the authorities even have their servers standing abroad, and most authorities have completely different consultants. The cyber defence should be a civil defence department. While the FRA tests whether different authorities can handle attacks, the cyber defence will build the platforms to pass the passive cyber defence. The platforms must contain hardware, software and service. The active IT defence shall be operated by the FRA or within its own department. By actively means destruction of information by an enemy in his system. The passive cyber defence is fully operational even in peacetime, while the active is active only in war. This kind of transformation into a government-wide system takes a few years but should begin immediately. When developing the software for the new systems of the authorities, the negative experiences of the defence Prio system shall first be analysed. As much as it talks about cyber threats, there is talk of hybrid warfare. Some say hybrid warfare is completely new, which is wrong. World War II had many episodes of hybrid war character. And what was the Trojan horse about, if not hybrid war? We note that today's wars and threats of war are increasingly hybrid in nature. The essence of understanding developments, when other actors try to mislead by conducting hybrid wars, is to have the right information. The psychological defence that we are to restore should also have as our first goal to provide the leadership of the total defense with accurate and full information. In war and crisis, the public should be properly informed through government channels. The public should have battery-powered radio receivers. During the Cold War, our own industry supported us with defence equipment. To achieve this, society made a joint effort. The government contributed funds to research. It was a great success because of our talented engineers and innovative entrepreneurs. Today, the defence industry spends most of its time on exports. But, of course, the defence industry also lives on the historical domestic efforts that built the foundation itself. Sweden today has a defence industry that manufactures world-class defence equipment. That's a huge advantage. When we buy our own systems for our defence, it is free of charge. The money goes back into the economy. The defence industry generates spinoff effects, and the systems that we buy become advantageous for exports. At the same time, competition is intensifying. International cooperation on materials is the only way forward in highly advanced and expensive systems. The most important thing today is that the Swedish defence industry remains part of the international equipment cooperation. It can remain so if we do not tighten our export controls further. It's already the second highest in the world. It is even more important that we say no to the EU's attempts, through its defence agency, the EDA, to take control of Europe's combined armaments production. The EU wants to make political decisions on which defence industries will survive and which will disappear. We must avoid that, Mr President.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-415	Mr President, I would like to The debate has been going on for a while, and many are waiting for the next dossier. That's why I'll be brief. I must reflect on what your colleague said earlier, Mikael Jansson, namely that Russia is not threatening Sweden today. If it is the case that Russia does not threaten Sweden today, why should we dimension the defence? If it is not the case that Russia is threatening Sweden, what military threats does Sweden have today?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-417	Mr President, I would like to It is very strange to receive such a question from a moderate. I was in the former defense committee, and when Peter Hultqvist tried to launch a thesis that the rearmament in our neighbourhood has a negative impact on our security environment, the Moderates said: No, it must not be in the report. There must be no mention of Russia being a threat. That was the Moderate line three years ago. We thought, however, that Peter Hultqvist was right in that situation – of course, renovation in our neighbourhood is something that has a negative impact on our safety environment. So now you have turned 180 degrees, Jan R Andersson, and I am grateful for that – but you cannot ask us about this. It is clear that we believe that rearmament in our neighbourhood means that we must accompany and equip ourselves.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-419	Mr President, I would like to I must, of course, ask the Swedish Democrats what the party thinks when it has been expressed that Russia is not threatening Sweden today. In fact, such a statement is rather tendentious. Even if you contradict it, Mikael Jansson, there is, as I see it, still a bowing and bowing before Moscow that it is actually difficult to get away from. Mikael Jansson may have some opinion, but the Swedish Democrats are a party that on many levels has been very responsive to Moscow. Not least, one can look at when the European Parliament wanted to tighten up its demands towards Russia and increase transparency, above all, regarding the funding of various parties. The Swedish Democrats were opposed to that. You can also look at the Swedish Democrats' cooperation party Ukip, which has a leader who is very charismatic and also pays tribute to Putin in both action and person. Of course, it is difficult to get away from the fact that there is actually a connection to Moscow within your party, Mikael Jansson. I also notice it on a local plane. The Swedish Democrats in my home country have been reluctant to say no to Nord Stream, although the Swedish Armed Forces have been very clear that it may pose a threat to Sweden's security. The government has also said that we should not invite Russian interests to Swedish soil. There the Swedish Democrats have taken a different position, and it is clear that it is difficult to get away from the fact that the Swedish Democrats are impressed by or at least have a clear sympathy for the rulers in the Kremlin. That is why I was particularly upset by the statement that Russia is not threatening Sweden today. It is up to the Swedish Democrats to show the party's opinion and be clear about it. I hope you can be clear about this in your final line, Mikael Jansson.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-423	Mr President, I would like to I guess it's hard to find someone as big as this that we'd check out to Moscow and the regime there. It's all wrong. As far as cooperation parties within the European Parliament are concerned, the Moderates are in the EPP and have cooperated with post-fascists. What gears are we going to pull on it? It is clear that it does not mean anything to which you are involved in such cooperation; it may be the case in the European Parliament that the parties in the Union-wide groups are quite different. In no way do we bow to Moscow. It is we who have stood the most and pointed out to rearrange and be ready if anything happens. FOI tells us that something can happen and that we must equip ourselves. On the other hand, to incite and, as some Moderates have done in this House, to point out Russia and to say that it is our enemy, we see no reason. We are concerned about how the Russian regime is dealing with its own democracy, and we must take into account Russia's armament. However, pointing out the country as an enemy is counterproductive. This is not the case for example in Finland; there is a completely different – mature – approach to the issue.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-425	Mr President, I would like to I asked for the floor one more time when I wanted to answer the questions that Mr Oscarsson asked earlier. When it comes to a declaration of solidarity, we say no. Write this now, Oscarsson, so you don't get it wrong! I have said this four or five times: we in the Swedish Democrats do not want to declare war on Russia. If we now take as an example that Russia would enter the Baltic countries, we do not, unlike Mikael Oscarsson, want to declare Russia war. It is a fact that we declare the aggressor war if we send soldiers to the Baltic States to defend the area against an attack. We don't want that. Write this now, so that we do not have to ask again what we think about this! That was the first question. Then the same Member says on a few occasions: one for all, all for one. I think Mikael Oscarsson has looked too much at the Three Musketeers. He jumps up and down and watches the same movie all the time. I have asked whether it is not possible to come up and tell us what cooperation with Turkey should be like. This is one of the partners Mikael Oscarsson is happy to cooperate with. He wants to build loyalty with Turkey, one for everyone, all for one. I would like an answer to that question. It is said here that Sweden should maintain an alliance freedom in its security policy direction. I note that we are not in fact alone, Mr President. But you may not have any confidence in people like Hans Blix. He is liberal and does not share the views of the Swedish democrats in many respects – I am sure – but in this matter he does. But others may understand better. Lars-Gunnar-Gunnar Liljestrand has written books about this. Does he have any credibility at all in this?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-429	Mr President, I would like to I think it was only an hour ago that the outgoing vice president of the United States, Joe Biden, on the spot in Davos pointed out Russia as the great threat to the free world. But he may not know much about this. For me, the image of security policy is not right The Swedish democrats today have painted in this House. It is said that Russia does not threaten. When Sweden has a discussion about NATO and the question is put to Minister for Foreign Affairs Lavrov, he says: If Sweden or Finland join NATO, it will be met by countermeasures from the Russian side. I do not know whether it is considered a threat or not; I would probably see it as such, and I am absolutely convinced that that is the way it is meant to be. It has also been said by the Russian side that Danish warships can become targets for Russian nuclear weapons. If you have the impression that Russia, with its political development, does not pose a threat to Sweden, Europe and the free world, you should of course also – as the Swedish Democrats do – pair this with that we should not have solidarity with anyone but ourselves. At that time, Mr President, we are dealing with exactly what Mikael Jansson was trying to deny. That's when you check for Russia. That is when we bow to a completely new security regime for Europe, and unfortunately we are bowing to authoritarian political developments. It is, in my opinion, distressing that there are parties in the Swedish Parliament today to market such a policy. On 8 December 2016 at 8:42 a.m., the Swedish Democrats announced by e-mail to eight members of the Committee on Defence that they did not intend to approve the committee initiative that engine maintenance and product support should remain in Sweden. Instead, it would be moved to Florida.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-432	Mr President, I would like to It was a lot from Allan Widman, who was involved in destroying the defense in the ground. I think it's just like this, Allan Widman: You in the Alliance are trying to shift the focus from your own shortcomings in the defence policy and from your own foregone efforts in the field of civil defence. In desperation they are now trying to find a way to justify an increase. Instead of apologizing to the Swedish people, you try to find out what to do, and then you sit in the hot tub again and do analyses. You come to the conclusion that you should find an enemy. But we're non-aligned, anyone objects. Yes, but we point out one enemy and run the NATO track, says another. Then we have it, plus that enemy who has popled up in the east, which justifies an increase in the defence budget. And so they point out the Swedish democrats, whose confidence in the defence issue is rising among the citizens. They point out the Swedish Democrats as Putin friends. They even throw in an old fox like Gunnar Hökmark, who in Today's industry calls the Swedish Democrats Putinfriends. Now we are putting all our energy into this, and we are going to fail completely. Freedom of the Alliance means that one must remain outside the networks of the great powers. If a credible security policy is to be pursued, one cannot go to one side. Finland, for example, has the role of an alliance-free country, and they say the same thing: we are assisting the Baltic countries in every way except military. We think this is an excellent policy and it strengthens the freedom of alliance. In my next line, I'll comment on the other parts of what Allan Widman said.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-436	Mr President, I would like to The need for the Alliance to shift focus has never been as small as when the Swedish Democrats now explain their world view here in the Chamber. My assessment is that this creates enough excitement. My follow-up questions to Roger Richtoff are whether the Swedish Democrats and Roger Richtoff are prepared to condemn the aggression that Russia is now targeting the eastern parts of Ukraine and whether they are prepared to condemn the illegal annexation of Crimea. Are the Swedish Democrats behind the sanctions that the EU has decided on and that also large parts of the Western world – including Canada, Japan and Australia – participate in?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-438	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an excellent question. You will get a clear answer: Yes, we condemn this. We condemn the annexation of Crimea. We have done this before – read and listen to what we have said before! It's good that you bring this up, Allan Widman. We are behind these sanctions. I have just handed over documents to the Center Party, on account of the Centre Leader's claim that we consistently vote in a certain way. This is a lie. Now we have handed over documents showing how we have voted. It shows that we have often not voted in favour of these sanctions when they have been included in a package. This package has contained a lot of parts – please read this later! We have not been able to say yes to the package as a whole, and we have abstained from voting. Part of this package has been sanctions against Russia. They do not want to take this part out, but want to take the opportunity to add other things, such as joining Ukraine into the EU. There are many, many parts– read this carefully! In any case, I have clearly replied here that we condemn this. What is a threat to Sweden? When people like you in the Alliance – not all of you, but many of you – point Russia out as an enemy, I think they are trying to shift the focus. Should you, as an unaligned state, point out another country as an enemy of yourself? If you do not even understand this, if you do not say no to such expressions, I think you are going completely wrong again. This is very serious. We have always worked for a strong Swedish defence over time, to take height for the opportunities of various attackers. If, as Allan Widman and the Alliance want, the Baltic Sea is turned into a NATO sea, Russia has said that they will deploy their units at the border. What's the weird thing about this?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-445	Mr President, I would like to This defence debate is beginning to end, and it is time to sum up all the wisdom that has been said this morning. There have also been a lot of unclear statements that help to spread some misinformation and to reinforce the image of propaganda and also the preference for interpretation in different directions. Among other things, I have heard Roger Richtoff say that he commends the government's defence policy. I heard earlier this morning that Roger said that the government has a good defence policy. He also gave feedback and praise to the Secretary of Defense, which is often repeated by Roger Richtoff. At the same time, we are talking about the need for more si and so many billions for defence. This is a sign that we are happy to stand in a joint group and actively oppose initiatives, such as when we in the Alliance proposed to the committee before Christmas that the maintenance of engines for JAS-planes in the future should take place in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats contributed to the failure of this initiative. Roger Richtoff today gives a lot of different directions. With experience of military leadership, it should be easy for Roger Richtoff to be clear in communication, considering that one should be able to follow the message and then practice it. But today, when we sum up the statements, the picture is very twisted and unclear. I would like to ask Roger Richtoff what he really intends to achieve.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-450	Mr President, I would like to I had no specific question about this ambiguity, but I reply to what was mentioned about the government. I think we have a Secretary of Defense worthy of the name. He's tried; he's a trend break. We think we can commend him for that. You in the Alliance are responsible for completely destroying the systems. When you accuse the government of inaction, we react to this. We invest a lot more than the government does, and we are clear about that. Year after year, when the Centre Party sat in the same position and armed down and dismantled civil defence, we stood here and said: We cannot do this! Is there anything clearer about this? We have retained that line; we want a good defence capability over time. We are investing a lot more, and we will come back constantly with this. Now you're on the boat. Good! I'm glad you want to jump on board! But please make clear what is unclear. Is that ambiguity against Russia? We have just condemned their actions. Where is the ambiguity? Nor do we perceive them threatening us in the sense that they say that they will attack us in any way if we do not do this or that. We were talking about nuclear weapons. Both NATO and Russia have tactical nuclear weapons as a natural part of their weapons systems, and both sides say they are ready to use them. Please take both sides with you, and please clarify this with the lack of clarity. I would like to be very clear, and it is rarely said that I am unclear, so if this is specified, I can come back and explain again.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-458	Mr President, I would like to Handing over written documents is a sign that you need to confirm what you stand for yourself. I think you can have a certain dialogue in here, which is based on standing up for what you say. When it comes to the defence grant, which is now granted to the Swedish Armed Forces for these four remaining years, the Center Party, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, has actively contributed to the landing of a defense decision. The Swedish democrats have not contributed a crown in reality, but they are happy to pronounce many different directions. We took responsibility in 2015 to land a defense decision for the five years ahead. We are prepared to continue the dialogue here and now on what more needs to be done during this focus period. We are also prepared to set a clear goal of reaching at least the Nordic average in terms of defence expenditure for the Swedish Armed Forces during the next focus period. An additional SEK 11 billion per year, which can be summed up as at least SEK 55 billion. This, if anything, shows that we take the development of our neighbourhood very seriously and that we are prepared to contribute constructively to practical decisions, so that they have the effectiveness and efficiency of the organisation. Rhetoric is one thing, but it is also about showing leadership in practical action and achieving something that lasts over time. We in the Center Party are extremely keen to have a broad defence policy debate and to have a broad agreement for future decisions. We are happy to stand here in the speaker's chair and only attack the alliance parties, which in practice is what Roger Richtoff has done today. But please lift your eyes and think about what the government will contribute to.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-465	Mr President, I would like to I was not allowed to specify what I am unclear about, so then I only interpret it as rhetoric. Well, that I handed over the documents just now was because your party leader is lying here. She claims that we consistently vote in a way. You yourself think it's great to say: Here, take this, you can read it! And the Prime Minister stands and says, "Trams!" Now we have handed over documents that show that it is not true what she says. It is not possible to repeat a lie in this House and believe that it will eventually become the truth, because we are here now and will respond to the lies. That was the answer to that question. You say you take responsibility. A few weeks ago, before Christmas, you presented the same budget. It didn't contain anything more for the civil defense, did it? Are you going to dismantle the civilian defense? Please come back in the future and answer if you want to dismantle civil defence. Why don't you bet money? As you just mentioned here, it's important for the future, isn't it? Leadership carries over time, and bets carry over time. Which party, then, has consistently said that we must have a high level of defence capability in Sweden? It's the Swedish Democrats. It is my firm opinion that you are trying to shift the focus. You cannot take this debate. And you cannot apologize to the Swedish people for what you have done, but you are trying to shift the focus. Then you, not the Center, but some others here, are trying to create an enemy that would justify a high level of defense. There's no need for that. We will have a high level of defence over time for future threats that are real and real, for example about attacks directed directly against Sweden.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-471	Mr President, I would like to We have adopted a declaration of solidarity in this House. This means that we in Sweden expect us to be able to get help in the event of a threat. We have said that if there is a disaster or war, we should not be passive. Then Sweden will be there. I have had the privilege of being a Member of Parliament for almost 19 years, and one of the most remarkable statements I have heard here from the pulpit is Roger Richtoff's claim that I have looked too much at the Three Musketeers. Is it not quite clear that for the Swedish Democrats I, myself and myself exist? Is it not the case, Roger Richtoff, that the Swedish people know very well that security and security we build together? How do you think this affects the outside world? How do you think Norway, Denmark, Finland, Poland, Germany and the Baltic countries would discuss whether your policy would prevail and Sweden would say that we expect help in every way. That is what we are building everything on, because we know that we will last a few days, and then we hope that NATO will come and help us. But on the part of the Swedish democrats, you sit with your arms crossed and say that it is only a question of civilian aid. Is solidarity nothing more than the three Musketeers for the Swedish Democrats? Doesn't that mean one to everyone, all to one?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-475	Mr President, I would like to The fact that we are able to defend ourselves for a few days or a week depends, of course, on the policy that Oscarsson has eagerly championed in this House and in practice. Is it not the case that the defence capabilities we have today depend on the policies that you have been pursuing for so many years? Now you've come to life. Now we have anointed the hinges to our copy room, so please come up and copy more about how the civil defence will develop. Welcome up! If solidarity is one for everyone, all for one, then tell us, Mikael Oscarsson, how far you have come with the negotiations with Turkey and solidarity with Turkey! What are the attack plans on the Baltic Sea? Couldn't you at some point present how you intend us to attack an attacker who enters the Baltic States? What does that plan look like? You're talking about how you perceive it here in Finland. Yes, Finland says the same thing. Haven't you read it? Finland says in its declaration of solidarity: We provide support with all available means except military, because we need our military for our own territory. It's not enough for anything else. The dangerous thing would be for Oscarsson to have credibility in this. If an attacker thinks that we would have the capacity to attack an attacker, it is as well to attack Sweden directly, right? Why wait until you have crossed the Baltic Sea? Of course you attack Sweden then. May I be well protected for the policy that you represent! Resources, opportunities and credibility must be linked. Building an alliance freedom requires taking the steps of an alliance freedom. My line time is over right now.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-483	Mr President, I would like to And the time is up for that policy. Neutrality ended when we joined the EU, so it has been a long time since the policy that Roger Richtoff represents was outdated. Let me also remind you, Roger Richtoff, one of the biggest scandals that Sweden has committed. On January 26, 1946, we released 146 baltes out of a total of 3,000. There are still, to this day, such wounds in the Baltic countries after what happened then. That is why it is so important that we are members of the European Union. We looked away in 1946. We'll never do it again. It is not possible to have a policy based on the fact that we expect something quite different from what we intend to do ourselves. As I said in one line, there's a golden rule that says that the way you want to be treated is to treat others. It's actually something much more important than a movie, the Three Musketeers. This is reality, for real. Solidarity declarations are for real, and then it is not possible to look away. You did in 1946. You won't do it again. That is why the Christian Democrats are so keenly in favour of being a NATO member. It is better, Mr President, to prepare with your friends than to improvise.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-487	Mr President, I would like to We weren't there then. But it is not that Mikael Oscarsson accuses us of the balt extradition, because you were among the parties that existed at the time. I've looked a little bit after what protests you made then, but I can't find any. But please come back with answers to how you acted in the papers! I can't find anything. That is not to say that you did not – I want to be clear about that, Mr President – but I found nothing. Help me! Come to us and show us how you protested, that you went out into the streets and squares and protested against the balt extradition. I can't find anything, but Oscarsson might have it in some burglary somewhere or in someone else's stash. You were, as I said, with him then. Alliance freedom is something that Oscarsson does not really understand, I think. I do not need to be right in this, but it is my view that Oscarsson does not understand the difference between being non-aligned and belonging to some form of alliance. Here I speak against myself a little, because we are happy to join in alliance or in alliance with Finland. But it commits to trying to be non-aligned from great powers and others. That is exactly what we want to be, preferably in association with Finland. We believe that this is a stabilising factor in our part of Europe. On the train there are also leading people who are not Oscarsson but we have confidence in, for example Hans Blix, Lars-Gunnar-Gunnar Liljestrand and many others who have written books about this. I have spoken to many representatives who share our opinion and our security policy analysis. It commits not to point out enemies and to act here. It offers great opportunities for security policy to act within the framework of the freedom of alliance. We'll bet on that. But we will maintain a strong Swedish defence over time.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-491	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservations 1 and 4 in the report. The report contains announcements from the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats. It is noticeable that the parties are starting to load before the election, because there are to be pictures of how bad Sweden is doing. But it is not an easy task. Unlike during the alliance period, unemployment is falling and youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. More people can leave home in the morning and say they go to work. More can contribute to the common. Enterprise creation is at a high level. In 2016, enterprise openings increased by 6.4 per cent in the country. The Swedish Companies Registration Office registered 68 793 new companies. The conditions for women and men on the boards of the companies, what is reasonable effort to set up a limited company and order and clear the papers are issues that will be touched upon in this debate. Mr President, I would like to If women were judged according to their skills, the economy would already have been on an equal footing. But then we know that this is not the case, and the positive development that is still taking place is too slow. According to Allbright's compilation, women sit on 32% of the seats on the national stock exchange boards. On the chairmen's chairs, women are far more sparse. As many as 94 per cent of Sweden's Chairman of the Board are men. The same is true of the CEOs. Here, too, 94% are men. In the companies' management teams, 80 percent are men. According to the Second AP Fund's women's index, it is about decades before the proportion of women and men achieves balance in boards and management. If you think the rate of change will be great, it will take less time. If it is thought that the rate of change will be on average what it has done in the last 12 years, it will take longer. The question is, of course, how long you want to wait. Even from the previous alliance government, signals have come that gender quotas on company boards are important. It is too slow and the arguments against legislation are eroding, said Minister of Finance Anders Borg. Gender equality always has a value in itself from a rights perspective and a democratic perspective. It also strengthens the companies' profitability and competitiveness. According to Avanza, equal companies over the last three years have given back twice as much to the owners compared to the average on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. There are companies on the Stockholm Stock Exchange that do well from a gender equality perspective. There are also companies that do not. 27 companies lack women on the board, and 80 companies have no women in the management team. The financial and consumer sector has the highest proportion of women on its boards. The raw materials and services sector has the lowest share. So it looks different. Mr President, I would like to In the light of these statistics, an approach can be adopted. You can either put your faith in the course of nature, wait and hope that it will resolve itself by itself. Or it is thought that, as so many times before, political decisions are needed to level out differences. Quotation does not solve all problems but nuances the image of who can and wants to be a manager, creates more role models, provides a more accurate reflection of society and is a great political signal of the desire for equality. A political decision on gender quotas for companies' boards would be good for a more equal, innovative and competitive labour market. It would have been welcome if the government had put forward a bill on the Riksdag's table on gender quotas on company boards. But the conservative forces in the parliamentary civil committee, consisting of the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats, have agreed that the most effective way to achieve more equal boards is not to send the signal to the country's general meetings to increase gender equality because there will be a law in 2019. The signals on quotas have played an important role in accelerating the pace of change in the composition of company boards. With Parliament's announcement to stop this, the pace of change risks halting. I'm sorry about that. Mr President, I would like to In 2009, Fredrik Reinfeldt's majority government submitted a proposal to the Riksdag that the requirement for share capital for those who wish to form a public limited liability company should amount to SEK 50 000. We have had a consensus on this. In 2009, Fredrik Reinfeldt's majority government could have chosen to present a capital requirement of SEK 25 000 or SEK 1. But they chose 50,000 kroner, and there were reasons for that. It is well known that a limited liability company can only be used for criminal purposes before society's control mechanisms strike. The criminal arrangements therefore require that there are constantly new public limited liability companies available to replace the companies that have been used up. The requirement for a share capital of SEK 50 000 in a company does not in itself stop abuse, but it may constitute a certain obstacle for people who want to start a company for rogue purposes. The fact that the entrepreneur has a well-thought-out and sustainable business idea that he or she is prepared to invest some of his or her own resources in order to realise requires a capital injection from those who want to start a limited liability company to some extent. Furthermore, the fact that the owner invests capital itself can be assumed to reduce the propensity of the entrepreneur to take excessive risks with the business. A capital requirement also constitutes a certain obstacle to the use of the form of public limited liability company to obtain tax advantages. This has been the argument. We have agreed on this when motions calling for the removal of share capital were dealt with in committee – at least when the Minister of Justice was moderate. This was also the argument of the previous government. When the Minister of Justice's name was Beatrice Ask, this type of proposal for a reduced share capital was rejected to SEK 25 000 or SEK 0. Now the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats are coming forward with demands for reduced share capital for the formation of limited liability companies. It will be reduced to SEK 25 000, as a first step. This is an important conclusion, because it indicates that the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats agree to completely abolish the share capital. The question is, why don't you cut it with zero crowns at once. Why wait? All parties supporting the majority text of the report want to reduce the share capital to more than SEK 25 000. The majority see the decline as a first step. The report refers to work at EU level on the so-called SUPs. Here it will be enough with EUR 1 in share capital. The majority text of the report welcomes legislation at EU level. What the committee's majority does is completely dismiss the objections against the so-called SUPs that have been received from significant parts of the Swedish state administration. There is a big difference between when the Alliance is a government and when it is an opposition. With regard to exceptions to the audit obligation, we have no opinion other than that previously expressed by the government. We would also like to point out the work that is going on within the EU, which is aimed at combating tax evasion. In this work, audit duties play a major role.
i-DR1ssQzp43AmAx2jsXvv7D	Mr President, I would like to I call for the report and for reservation 5. I thought I'd start where Lars Eriksson left off, namely with the issue of the size of the share capital. An international view of neighbouring economies to Sweden shows that almost all countries and almost all comparable economies in the EU have a corporate form that involves limited personal responsibility and requires zero or very little in initial capital. Why is this an important reform for Sweden? Well, because start-ups don't always look like they did before. For many, it is not capital consisting of premises, furniture, equipment and machinery that is carrying it, but an idea. Why is it that anyone who has an app or an idea of an app and wants to make it a reality should be forced to pay 50 000 SEK in a limited liability company in order to get started? Otherwise, reference is made to the more risky form of entrepreneurship that it involves starting an individual firm. Why do the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party state in their reservation that the share capital fulfils a role as a barrier to unthinking and unserious entrepreneurship? It is a bit astounding that the left-wing group in the Swedish parliament is actually standing here and saying that there is a presumption that those who are less well-off and less capital-strong stand for more unserious or ill-considered entrepreneurship. It's amazing, to say the least. And why is it that the other economies in Europe are able to have such a system? If that were the case with the Social Democrats, this would not be the usual form across Europe. That is why this is an important position of the committee today. Then I would like to turn to the second important announcement of the four announcements we have to the government in this report, namely the one on company quotas. What are we really discussing? Today we have a representation of women on stock exchange boards of 32%. I am the first to say that achieving equality in all parts of society is an important and urgent task. That is why it is so strange that, so to speak, a red curtain is hoisted up in front of the business community. The Social Democrats are talking about the need to promote greater equality in the business world, not in the labour market as a whole; it is in the business sector that we should quota. This is precisely the case with stock exchange boards. But if it is a normative effect that we want to achieve, why do we not turn to non-profit associations and to municipal companies, where it is actually we politicians who choose who is to sit on the boards? We have 200 stock exchange boards, but we have 1,600 municipal companies. The municipal companies, where we politicians are in charge, are not covered by this proposal. The largest stock exchange company in Sweden has 40,000 employees. Compare with, for example, the trade union movement! Buildings have 100,000 members. It is a particularly normative force in the Swedish labour market. There's zero women on the board. What we are actually talking about is quotas from today's 32% to 40%. That's the idea. Legislation has now been withdrawn, but it was legislation that had actually met perhaps 200 people. All the women who had been hit by that legislation had thus taken place in this House, Mr President. I do not think that the Swedish Parliament has ever been close to discussing a legislative product that has met so few Swedish citizens. That, Mr President, is placard politics when it is absolutely the worst. What social democracy should start by doing is sweeping its own doors by ensuring that there is equality in the labour movement and making sure that we get equal company boards in the municipal companies, which we are actually in charge of. The Social Democrats are in fact in charge of most of the country's municipalities. However, Morgan Johansson said during a draw with the Civil Committee a few years ago, I think it was, that it is far too complex to impose that requirement on municipal companies. So there is a requirement on others that you are not prepared to impose on yourself. That, Mr President, is to indulge in hypocrisy. I am proud that today the Committee on Civil Liberties is clearly setting its foot against this very kind of hypocrisy.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-528	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Bohlin for his speech. I thought it was interesting. Above all, it was an attack on the Social Democracy for our perception of the level of share capital in the companies. But what I have now said about this is not just a social democratic position. I quoted in my speech from the Swedish Tax Agency's referrals. They are signed by Ingemar Hansson, Director General of the Swedish Tax Agency, former Secretary of State at Anders Borg. That's where the attack is directed. And what I have otherwise mentioned about the share capital is directly taken from the case-file 2010/ 2011. So it is something that you have written out during the time when the Minister of Justice was called Beatrice Ask. That's what your frontal attacks are targeting, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin. The fact that we Social Democrats think that that is a good thing is, of course, quite correct. However, we must take some note of what these positions are from and what they have their bearing on, namely the positions of Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin's own party representative on this matter over time. We've had a consensus. This is where it gets weird.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-530	Mr President, I would like to I didn't hear any question from Lars Eriksson, but I'm still going to take the time to answer any of what he said. This is very symptomatic and typical of what social democracy is like. It is noted that a change was made in the past. Then you want reality to be static. But the reality is not static. It is true that it was the Alliance that pushed us down from 100,000 to 50,000. The effect, which has now been evaluated, is that more companies have been started – it led to many more limited companies being registered, instead of choosing the less favourable form of the company's individual firm. Politics must be developed in conjunction with what the outside world looks like. If we find that Germany, Finland, Norway, Denmark and France all have company forms that do not require capital – or a euro, as it often looks in the EU – we need to think somewhere. What does it do for our competitiveness if there is a threshold for starting a company in Sweden when you have an idea that basically does not require any capital? What are the thresholds for the cost of setting up a limited liability company? Is this an issue on which the Social Democrats are reflecting? Or lu, you just get back to being so here once was, and that's why it's always going to be like that? We are starting from the fact that society is changing, and then political solutions need to do so.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-534	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, for your comments! What I wanted to draw attention to is what is written in the report, namely that this should be seen as a first step. It is not at all $25,000 that is what you think it should be. You want to go somewhere else. But you do not write where you want to on this matter. You're not bringing that up at all. It is clear that the present is changing. This will be interesting not least on the basis of the views that have previously been expressed on these issues from the Swedish Economic Crime Authority and the Swedish Security Service. They have pointed out the seriousness of its possible use by grossly unsuitable persons and organisations. It is also about the financing of terrorism. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has raised this issue itself. It has dealt with the issue of how to work more strongly to tackle terrorism. This work points out that the committee wishes to draw attention to the fact that in some cases companies can be used as a platform for criminal activities and money laundering. That is almost literally what the Security Service has raised on these issues. What is serious about this is that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats completely refrain from even commenting on it in an act that indicates that it should be seen as a first step that there is an ongoing work about the SUP companies. It is completely clinically free from reflections on this. I find it remarkable. I wonder a little, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin: Are you not speaking on the side of the Moderates in the Civil Committee and the Committee on Justice?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-540	Madam President, I would like For those who have only one hammer in their toolbox all problems tend to look like a nail. That is what the Social Democrats are showing here. The purpose of the legal framework is not primarily to prosecute criminal offences. For this we have a criminal code, criminal law and law enforcement authorities. If we want to take the legislation of association and fight crime in the first place, we risk doing so at the expense of turnover. It increases the thresholds for setting up a business. Of course we should have a system where we prosecute crimes. But the question is whether we should do it with the Companies Act, Lars Eriksson. He makes a large issue of Savo's referrals. I don't know if Lars Eriksson has read Säpo's referrals to the SUP draft. If I remember correctly, it was two lines long. This testifies to a rather limited commitment and interest in the issue of SUPs by Säpo. It may also indicate that there are some more important issues than the size of the input capital to register a legal person when it comes to combating crime in general. The question on which the Social Democrats and the Red-Green parties owe the answer is: Why should we not consider that in our surrounding world and our neighbouring economies it is much easier and lower thresholds to start a company and conduct business? Do the Social Democrats mean that there is more criminal activity in individual firms?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-544	Madam President, I would like Why should Sweden not relate to the fact that many countries in our neighbourhood take the issue of gender equality in industry very seriously and impose quotas on the boards of stock exchange companies? I would like to put that question to the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. They mean today: Yes, gender equality is important. But it is not so important that we want to do something to achieve equality. This is what the outgoing CEO of SEB, Annika Falkengren, said: The threat of quotas has after all been good. If you let go of the accelerator, it goes back a little bit. The pressure must be there. Madam President, I would like If we now agree that equality is important also in the absolute power of the business community, the boards of stock exchange companies, we must be prepared to do what is necessary to achieve equality. What we have seen in several rounds is that the threat of introducing a law that forces stock exchange companies to have at least 40% women and at least 40% men, although this has never been the problem, on their boards has led to more women in the boardrooms. The last time the bourgeois parties removed the threat, the development stopped. When we in the Green Party and the Social Democrats took power, we revived this and said: If we do not see at least 40% women on the boards in spring 2016, we will present a legislative proposal. Then something happened again. The pressure must be there, as Annika Falkengren says. Madam President, I would like I therefore support our reservation 1 in the report. It is that we want the government to present a legislative proposal to Parliament because the development has not gone far enough. In the debate so far, we have also discussed the issue of the size of the share capital. The bourgeois parties, supported by the Swedish Democrats, want to reduce to SEK 25 000 or SEK 1. There are a few different figures that are heard in the debate. In fact, when we talk about tools, nails and hammers in this House, there are criminal organised criminals and those who support terrorism and change their tools. The crowbar becomes a limited liability company. This is a development that must be taken very seriously. My view as a Member and Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Justice is that the whole of society must take development seriously and do what is necessary to prevent the serious organised crime that threatens democratic society itself. We must take terrorism, which has unfortunately become increasingly present in European reality too, seriously. We have to act. It cannot, as Mr Bohlin said, be an isolated issue for only the Committee on Justice, the police and the judiciary. We must ensure that gaps are closed and not that the Moderates want to offer new tools to those who want to dismantle democratic society and threaten it with serious crime. It is therefore remarkable that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin is waving away Skatt tverket's own formulations of what can happen if the share capital is reduced to some krona or euro, namely that it increases the possibilities for criminals to use companies to launder money, fund terrorism and commit fraud against other companies and against individuals. What is also pointed out in the referrals that have been discussed is that it is small companies that are most affected by this type of activity and that their own share capital is lower. Unlike the largest companies, they do not have sufficient means and resources to require personal guarantees. I am struck by the absence of this perspective in the report of the Committee on Civil Liberties. This also applies to the question of reducing the requirements for auditors. The auditors are also an authority to ensure that crime is detected early through the activities of these companies. It is just as my predecessor in the debate from the Social Democrats said: stock companies used for criminal purposes can often only be used for a short time. The cheaper they get to start, the easier it is to constantly create a new one. Madam President, I would like For this reason, I would like to endorse our reservation 4 in the report. Today, however, the majority of the Committee on Civil Liberties has agreed that we should extend the tools for those who want to commit crimes through public limited liability companies and that we should not introduce tools to achieve equality in business. It is a sad day for the Swedish feminist government.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-557	Madam President, I would like It is almost fascinating to stand and listen to the Green Party in this debate. You believe that the difference between SEK 25 000 in capital to start a limited liability company and SEK 50 000, as it is today, would be some kind of protection against terrorism and the aggravation of serious organised crime by Sweden. I have two simple questions for the Green Party. It costs about SEK 1 000 to register a partnership. Why, then, is this not today a company form that is used to a greater extent than limited companies to finance serious organised crime and terrorism? And if this is such a gigantic problem as the Green Party describes – why do you not immediately propose a sharp increase in share capital? The larger it is, the more difficult it must reasonably be for serious organised crime to use this tool. If you think a little about the reasoning, you can see what kind of thinking the Green Party and the red-green minority in this House are stuck in, that is to say, they are trying to use the wrong kind of legislation to hit the wrong kind of nail. Associational law aims to increase the turnover of society and not to prosecute crime. In order to prosecute crimes, we have different legislation, and that is not what we are discussing today. But it is absolutely an important piece of legislation.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-560	Madam President, I would like Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin is right that this is a balance between important interests. That is why the Green Party took this line when the share capital was reduced from SEK 100 000 to SEK 50 000. It is really difficult to know where the optimal balance is between interests: on the one hand, it should be easy to start businesses for actors who want to contribute to society with their ideas and knowledge, on the other hand, we should not make it so easy that we simply serve a sandwich table for organised crime. I do not think the prevention and fight against crime is just a matter for justice policy and the law enforcement authorities. I think it is the responsibility of society as a whole to ensure that we do not unobstructedly serve new hammers and other new tools to organised crime. This is actually the case when you read the report of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs; this balance is completely empty. In fact, what I am most opposed to is not really the figure of 25 000, but the figure itself, to begin with. Because what are the Moderates thinking? What's the target? Is it zero kroner, or is it 10,000 kroner? There's no way to tell. The Moderates have been in favour of the model pointed out by our law enforcement authorities and the Swedish Tax Agency as incredibly easy for criminals to exploit. It worries me that they are doing it... again unreflected and without seeing the consequences.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-563	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by reading from the reservation that the Green Party is also behind. It says: The fact that a capital injection of the current size is required ensures that there is a well thought-out and sustainable idea. So is it the case that the left-wing minority in this House thinks that a lot of capital is synonymous with good ideas? If so, it is a revolutionary reversal from Sweden's so-called labour movement. The less well-off is thus presumed to have worse ideas than the more well-off. That is a strange starting point, I must say. If it were the case that all the concerns expressed by the Green Party and the Social Democrats were justified here – would we not see this as a consistent pattern in our Nordic neighbours Norway, Denmark and Finland? They all have a form of company with limited personal liability without a requirement for input capital, or in any case a much lower requirement for input capital. What conclusions have you drawn from the status quo in Denmark, Finland and Norway? My guess is none. My guess is that you just stand here and guess and hide behind flossels that lack support in the empirical as to how this kind of decline has occurred in other countries.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-565	Madam President, I would like The wording against which Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin objected is a quote from the referral submitted by the Swedish Tax Agency on the proposal that was then under discussion in Europe on the corresponding changes. It is not just taken out of the air, but the Swedish Tax Agency is one of our heavy authorities in this area, which is probably so knowledgeable and experienced in terms of how companies are used for criminal purposes. It is a fact that the limited liability company, with its limitation of liability which means that the public limited liability company does not normally become obliged to pay back money when the company goes bankrupt, becomes very attractive to those who want to deceive other people into money or those who in different ways want to engage in criminal activities. These companies are more used today than before. It is also a development that we need to take very seriously. I do not see anywhere in the report by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs that the bourgeois parties and the Swedish democrats have understood that this is what the reality is today. The stock company, not the crowbar, is one of the crime tools that we need to be better at watching. Therefore, it would not be serious to discuss these issues as if we did not have the challenge of organised crime, terrorist financing, etcetera. These are problems that many put a lot of effort into counteracting. That is what Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin wants to completely separate from the rules that actually surround some of the tools that criminals also use.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-569	Madam President, I would like The other day, a televised press conference was held. The news came out in every possible media and is still a key news item. For eleven years Annika Falkengren has been CEO of SEB. One of the gold eggs in the Wallenberg family basket loses a person who has worked in the company for more than 30 years. In an attentive statement that I heard while this speech was being prepared last night, she said: Sweden is not on the right track; Sweden has become colder. She then referred to the fact that we are bad at taking advantage of knowledge by often failing integration. Then she was asked what she would do to appoint women as managers in business. The answer she gave was that she herself interviews the candidates three steps down in the organization. She does this because men tend to prefer men if the merits are otherwise the same and that it becomes different in the interview situation when different personalities meet each other on equal terms. The fact that I highlight Annika in the debate, which I am not alone in doing, is not because she is such an amazing person or because the bank she has been head of has a great gender equality work. I don't know anything about that. I do so in order to point out that an equal economy with equal management groups, women as managers also in male-dominated sectors and, not least, an equal representation of the sexes on company boards is not something that can be forced by top-down measures. It's about building from scratch, working with values and establishing an interest in entrepreneurship and leadership early in life, not least in the role of a father and as a mother. How we behave at home and what kind of image we are to our sons and daughters matter. It matters how we behave towards each other in working life as colleagues and as managers. I have experience of both – but not of being a woman, and therefore I cannot explain with credibility how it can feel to be in a workplace where traditional gender patterns prevail and ruling techniques and wage discrimination exist as well as a general lack of understanding of what it is like, both for men and for women, to combine work with responsibility for young children and perhaps also for elderly relatives. Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that today we will have announcements indicating that the composition of boards should remain the responsibility of the stock exchange owners and their election preparations and that Sweden will no longer operate within the EU for such a directive. It is wise for the government to withdraw a proposal with proposals on quotas that there are no conditions to get through in the Swedish parliament. This will allow us to move to work on more effective measures. The Center Party believes that gender equality and feminism, regardless of the issue of quotas, belong in this debate. I therefore support the Center Party's reservation No 3 on further measures to promote women's influence in business. In order to be a woman in charge of her life, take responsibility for her choices and get a reward for her work, women must be able to decide for themselves where to work, how to make a career and get their salary up to influence their life income. But women have less power and influence than men. More men are high income earners, Chairman of the Board and Board members. ..................................................... This is how we write in our party movement and note, as far as the state-owned companies are concerned, that during the time of the Center Party in the alliance government there was hard and successful work for a more even gender balance on the boards. Today, the proportion of women in state-owned companies is 49%. We showed that this is possible, and now the private business community can follow suit. Is this the policy that Lars Eriksson described in his main speech as conservative forces within the Alliance? Running businesses gives freedom and also the opportunity to enter the business world. By strengthening women's opportunities to start and run businesses and by giving more women the opportunity to take on high positions in business, we finally reach the top, up to the owners and to the board. Entrepreneurship gives freedom and also the opportunity to enter the business world. Sitting on the board of one's own company creates paths to other board assignments in other companies and in the long run to other industries. On the contrary, what we have seen so far from the government's industrial policy shows, in order to use Annika Falkengren's words once again, that Sweden is not on the right track. Proposals to introduce a profit limit for companies operating in health care, education and care mean that you in the government send a signal to those who run companies in the women-dominated sectors that it is not okay to make money and that in those businesses you should not be able to develop your business and be successful. When women are not expected to be driven entrepreneurs or take risks in their entrepreneurship, it helps to ensure that women do not run businesses to the same extent as men, do not spend as much money or time on their businesses and find it more difficult to get loans granted for their entrepreneurship. Women's businesses are thus not growing as fast and as much as men's. The number of entrepreneurs in Sweden has increased since the mid-2000s, but in 2014, the rising trend was broken. Sweden needs more, not fewer, women who run companies. With more employers in women-dominated sectors, it is also possible to make a career as an employee. It has become easier in many parts of the country where there have not been several employers to choose from in the past. LOV, the Freedom of Choice Act, has opened up opportunities for women to start businesses in a sector where they have so far only been able to be employed by a single employer, namely the municipality. If you do not want to lead or own the company, there is the opportunity to improve your salary and employment conditions by changing employers. Is that bad? We ask for the approval of paragraphs 1, 2, 6 and 12 and for the rejection of the four reservations. With our position, we wish to emphasise how important it is that the government now takes the initiative to strengthen women's influence in business and promote women's entrepreneurship. It is part of a feminist policy and results-oriented and successful gender equality work. Madam President, I would like To reduce the requirement for share capital from SEK 50 000 to SEK 25 000 is another gender equality policy initiative, or even better, an effort on equality. Economic equality is, of course, about enabling those who have knowledge and a driving force to start and run businesses with as low a threshold as possible. It is therefore also important that we now take a stand in order to exempt more companies from auditing. A majority in the Swedish Parliament wants to simplify for small businesses. That's good. The government should listen and act and not stand here accusing potential entrepreneurs of being potential criminals. We want to open up the corporate form of limited liability companies to even more of those who have only a small amount of capital available. It can be young people, people with immigrant backgrounds or those who have worked in their industry for a long time and want to knock off but who think that the cost is too high and the rules difficult to follow. Thanks to the alliance government, small limited liability companies were excluded from the audit obligation in 2009. This applies to limited liability companies with fewer than three employees and a balance sheet total of less than 1 1⁄2 million. Now we want to move on, because the fears of increased cheating did not come true either. Madam President, I would like I am surprised that the government, together with the Left Party, is opting for proposals such as this which would increase economic equality. In line with this proposal, the Center Party is proposing a new form of enterprise – a start-up company – with a total corporation tax of a maximum of 25% on turnover, as long as it is less than SEK 250 000. It would be a stepping stone, not only to start-ups but also to a labour market that would otherwise be closed to those who do not have contacts, formal training or knowledge of the functioning of laws, rules, authorities, the labour market and industry. This form of enterprise exists in many European countries and should be close at hand for those who have experience in entrepreneurship and who have been active in their home country. The Center Party also has a reservation about overcoming the criminal clique that occurs in business. The reservation is about dealing with financial crime, where people are being used as goalkeepers and bullies for those who earn the big money. In order to maintain faith in the laws and rules of society and all serious traders, it must be mentioned here. Resources shall be allocated to those responsible for ensuring compliance with these laws and shall not be used as an element in this legal debate. Madam President, I would like We must assume that those who set up a business have a good purpose, that they want to realise dreams, make money and contribute to society with their work and their tax revenues. An effort to simplify the rules, lower thresholds for entrepreneurship and the promotion of more companies in more sectors is about fairness and equality. We have succeeded in stopping the plans for artificial, constructed and quota equality with the decisions to be taken here today. Now the work begins to build a more equal society from below. I would like to take one final example. Recently, Swedish t Enterprise Maria Åkerberg from Frillesås outside Kungsbacka appointed Halland's most enterprising person in 2016. Maria worked as a skin therapist but wanted to open her own salon and needed products for it. However, it proved impossible to find products without mineral oils and synthetic ingredients. As a result, she began to experiment with natural substances herself. Her oils and creams include, according to the company website, as far as possible natural products. Today, the company is the only company in the world that offers treatment with live stem cells through its customers. Today Maria Åkerberg has her own brand and is apparently very successful. There are many such examples around us. The debate on corporate law is about which laws and rules companies should comply with. I have chosen to take my starting point from a feminist perspective. We say no to quotas and profit bans and yes to regulatory simplifications with lower thresholds for women and men starting and running businesses.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-594	Madam President, I would like Ola Johansson wants to build an equal society from below. To me as a grass-roots enthusiast, it sounds amazing. But then the question must be: How long does the Center Party want to wait? For bottom - up construction is going terribly slow. Gender equality work is too slow. Just the example that Ola Johansson himself mentioned – Annika Falkengren's commitment to who is employed in the company further down the hierarchy – shows that we also have to work from above. Leadership matters. We see a correlation; in companies where there are many women on the board, there are also more women in the management teams. It is therefore important that we achieve equal corporate boards in the sphere of power that stock exchange companies still represent. Gender equality is about power. Gender equality is important, both in politics and in private business. Today, Sweden's biggest obstacles to growth are perceived as access to skills. Today, women are being allocated out because of the mechanisms that Ola Johansson also highlighted, namely that men tend to choose men – everything else equal. This means that gender equality in companies is not only a question of human rights but also a question of Swedish competitiveness. How long does the Center Party want to wait for equality to develop?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-599	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Annika Hirvonen Falk for the question. Annika is inspired by the bottom-up perspective but consistently chooses the top-down perspective in the debate. That surprises me very much. My basis in the speech was how we act as co-workers, as parents, as predecessors and as managers. This also applies to the role we take here in the decision-making assembly, in the organisations we operate and the way in which the country is governed and governed. For example, the previous government saw to it that 49% of the board members of the state companies were women. Previous speakers have mentioned what it looks like in some organisations that are close to some of the parties present in this House. Annika Falkengren is an excellent example, which we both use. That's good. But I do not believe that the threat of quotas is the main motive for working with equal boards. I think that threat is very much alive anyway. The main threat should be, as previous speakers have pointed out, that a company that does not have an equal board is less profitable than a company that does. The economic drivers – the opportunities to develop their products, improve their economy and acquire more customers – are reached by being profitable and innovative. Maria Åkerberg is an excellent example of this.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-604	Madam President, I would like I think we need both. We must work from below, ensure that all children are brought up with present mothers and fathers. That is why we have also reserved another month of parental insurance for each parent, the so-called third father month. And therefore we invest in norm-critical pedagogy in preschool. But if we are to wait for each generation to become a little more equal, development will progress so slowly that even my children will not live in the equal society that both I and Ola Johansson say we want to achieve. That is why we also need to work from above. Today, the Center Party, which claims to represent a feminist analysis and industrial policy, is voting against a concrete proposal for something that has proven to work internationally to achieve gender equality also on the boards of companies. It's distressing. Then you are not prepared to live up to the ambition of achieving an equal society. Then you are not prepared to use the tools available. Madam President, I would like I would like to praise Ola Johansson's optimistic view of humanity. He said in his speech that we must believe that everyone who starts a business wants good. I wish society were such that we could believe that all people always want to do good. But we cannot be so naive as to ignore what is in front of us. There are also people who, through organised crime and terrorism, want to destroy what we have built together.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-607	Madam President, I would like I shall explain to the Centre Party the reasons why we are voting against quotas today. One of the reasons is that we have done this every time this issue has been up for discussion, and that argument has been raised many times in this House. It is about ownership, which is a fundamental foundation of the policy of the Center Party. A person who owns a company, a piece of land, a property or whatever it may be shall not feel that society intervenes and governs how that person should use his or her property. You're supposed to stick to laws, and you're not supposed to commit criminal acts. You should use your property to promote yourself and your surroundings. When the Riksdag decides and talks about how a person or company should use their property and use its own quorum, there is a stop in the spinal cord of center parties. We say no to that kind of proposal. I note that it is the freedom of every person and company to be less successful in their entrepreneurship and to be less successful in managing their property or farming. But the influence and power should lie with the individual. That is the ideological basis for saying no to gender quotas on company boards, although we think it would be good if we were to make wise decisions as owners for the future of our own company. Then I come to the question that Annika Hirvonen asked because she had 30 seconds left on her line time. I have 20 seconds left. I find it astounding that this discussion on how to promote people's ability to start a business, to get to work and to find a meaning in their life here in Sweden with low levels of education and experiences from other countries should be about whether that person is potentially criminal. Stupendous!
i-6W8WtJ1jV8KxU9aEnw5bXM	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ola Johansson, for an interesting speech! I have now listened to two representatives from the Alliance, and I asked to speak in order to understand what you mean by the wording you have. None of you has so far mentioned it in your speech. What do you mean when you say that you want to see a reduction of the share capital to SEK 25 000 in a first step? Why are you landing at $25,000? Why don't you describe what you really want to see? The only guidance given to the rest of us can be found in the report under the heading "Work in progress" which deals with SUPs. This means that we need clarity here. What have you five parties agreed on regarding the direction that you want to take in this area? None of you have worked it out, and the report cannot be read out, more than a few guesses about this. Social democrats, environmentalists and left-wing parties do not want rogue entrepreneurs. Almost half of the state administration has addressed this in its opinions on the companies. The Committee on Justice raised the issue in its opinion on how to work against terrorism. You're waving this out of the state administration. I find that astounding. I do not claim that entrepreneurs in general would be more rogue than others.
i-AaPKt5buHntSs415U2ZJ7X	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the praise, Lars Eriksson! It seems that Lars Eriksson has made it his mission here in the Chamber to focus on a figure – in this case SEK 25 000 – which means a halving from the figure that applied earlier, SEK 50 000. With a certain pride Lars Eriksson was able to announce a moment ago that the Social Democrats have, after careful consideration, stated in the Alliance's assessment that the requirement for public limited liability capital would change from SEK 100 000 to SEK 50 000. If it wasn't a first step, I don't know what it is. Obviously there were reasons for Lars Eriksson and his party colleagues to take that step. Now he finds it extremely problematic that we want to take another step and halve from 50 000 SEK to 25 000 SEK. Then you can ask the question back to Lars Eriksson : What was the type of mature consideration from the Social Democrats that made it felt that these suspenders and this life belt of 100 000 crowns were suddenly no longer justified? How the direction goes Lars Eriksson can continue to speculate in. I do not think it is a secret that the alliance parties support the work that is going on in Europe with regard to the SUPs. But it is, of course, directives and regulations that will take place at EU level, and there is certainly the possibility for Sweden to influence this development, if you like. I do not know of such a message on the part of the Social Democratic Government. Possibly, it has been decided from the outset that this should not be done at that level. Today, however, we will make a decision of $25,000. I'm glad. Further speculation may be considered unnecessary at this stage.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-620	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ola Johansson, for your comments on my questions. But what else are we gonna do but speculate when we don't get an answer? Why is it not described what you five parties have agreed on as a first step? It is not accounted for in this document. On the other hand, the ongoing work in the EU is presented. Then I have produced the opinions on this that have come from the various parts of the public administration. It is not a matter of which authorities we are talking about. We're talking about the Ecocrime Agency, the Security Service, the IRS. It is a long line of very heavy authorities that have spoken on this issue. It is being waved away as a flosskel from the state administration and something that the sossians have made up. That's not true. I find it strange and remarkable that this type of question and aspect is not affected when it has been raised in other committees in this Parliament. After all, I am not getting an answer from the good Ola Johansson here whose commitment to these issues I have no doubt about is in my heart good. So far, I don't get an answer. After all, there will be more representatives of the Alliance, so I hope that someone will tell us what lies behind the wording of the first step. So far you have to ask questions about this.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-623	Madam President, I would like It is wonderful and sympathetic that Lars Eriksson uses the last 20 seconds of his speech to commend me for being kind and benevolent. It's very nice. But it is clear what irritation and frustration has been aroused from the Social Democratic Party and the Green Party that they are once again going on an announcement here in the Swedish Parliament. There is a majority in Parliament who want to take a different path from what the government seems to want. The Social Democrats are a party which in itself is large and has all kinds of resources. In addition, you can use the entire Government Office with all officials and investigative resources. It can also be used by the state authorities. It is not surprising, then, that a bomb mat with different duplicates is being laid out for a proposal from the alliance parties which is well founded and which aims to improve the conditions and opportunities for ordinary people to start and run businesses to a greater extent. One is intimidated by propaganda against those who have a business idea and want to create a company form that is much better than the individual firm, if the owner wants to take out a loan, develop the company and increase turnover. It's more risky to start a single firm. It is simply counterproductive to create the conditions for developing a growing business community with companies that want to develop in society. It is based on the argument that there would suddenly be a risk of a large and extensive criminal activity among Swedish entrepreneurs. I find that unpleasant.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-628	Madam President, I would like We are currently debating the Committee on Civil Liberties's report. I was going to focus on the issue of gender equality and representation on company boards. I am proud to belong to a party that stands on a socialist and feminist basis. Being a feminist means seeing that we live in a society with an unequal power structure with a gender power regime that benefits men at the expense of women and wants to change this. I want women and men to have the same opportunities, rights and obligations in all areas of society, where the question of gender does not matter how a person is treated or what opportunities he or she has. The unequal sex power system is expressed in the fact that men as a group have unwarranted power and influence in society. For example, women's work is valued less than men's work, women have lower wages than men and they have a worse position in the labour market. A clear example of this is representation on company boards where men are still in the majority. The Second AP Fund's 2016 women's index shows that the proportion of women in the companies is now 30.7 per cent and that the proportion of women in management is 20.9 per cent. When it comes to the absolute peak, it looks significantly worse as only 6.3 per cent of women hold positions as Chairman of the Board and CEO respectively. Although there has been some improvement, the figures for female representation on the boards of companies are still too low. Madam President, I would like The reason for the unequal representation on the boards of companies is not because women are less competent, have less education or are less able to manage companies. It's simply because they're women. This is about discrimination. We see how men's norms and values govern the election of representatives and how men prefer to recruit men. It is clear that companies themselves cannot correct the unequal distribution if we want to see a change in the foreseeable future. It is strange that the business community and the bourgeois parties, together with the Swedish Democrats, are not more interested in getting a more equal distribution on the boards and management of the companies. Several researchers show how companies with more women in management have been more profitable and successful than companies with only men. Women today have a high level of education and skills that are not fully exploited, which companies are also losing out on. Of course, the issue of equality is not just whether or not to have quotas for companies' boards. Gender equality is about much more. If we want to achieve equality, we must allow the issue to permeate all areas of society. But quotas can be an important step in achieving more equality in the corporate world, which can also help to increase equality in society and in working life at large. However, I would like to emphasise that this is far from the only solution. I think it is important to strive for an even distribution of power and influence between women and men. Gender equality is a matter of human rights, democracy and justice, but also of harnessing the competences of all people. If the skills of women and men in the business sector are exploited, management will have the best composition, which will benefit companies and thus growth. Initiatives aimed at significantly improving gender balance in terms of participation in economic decision-making are also urgently needed. I also object to the proposal for lower capital requirements. The fact that a capital injection is required of those who want to start a limited company ensures that the entrepreneur has a well thought-out and sustainable business idea, on which he or she is prepared to invest some of his or her own resources in order to realise it. The committee has also pointed out in the past that the propensity of the entrepreneur to take too much risk in the business is reduced if he invests a capital himself. A reasonable capital requirement also constitutes a certain obstacle to the exploitation of the form of public limited liability company for misleading purposes such as money laundering, fraud and other criminal activities. I request the approval of reservations 1 and 4.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-637	Madam President, I would like I asked for a reply because I felt that we need to discuss the issues that are actually on the table, that is, the legislation that regulates how we own and operate companies in Sweden. Lotta Johnsson Fornarve has here problematized a single issue, namely the issue of quotas. She also came in a little bit on the requirement for share capital. I would like to ask Lotta Johnsson Fornarve a question about the fact that Sweden's municipalities and county councils buy services for several billion SEK each year. These can be services from driving buses to plowing roads and building properties for the municipal operation of care, school and care. When it comes to delivering services that are intended to operate in these premises – what can normally be associated with what we call welfare services – the Left Party and the government option that it supports require these companies to have profit limits. Based on the gender pattern that Lotta Johnsson Fornarve so well describes and knowing who normally represents these company forms, I wonder how well motivated she thinks it is that there are differences in the view of male and female entrepreneurship and the various companies' service deliveries to public services owned by state, municipalities and county councils.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-640	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ola Johansson, for your comments and your question! Gender equality is, of course, important in all areas, which I tried to emphasise in my speech. The Left Party is the party that stands up for equality in all areas of society. As far as welfare gains are concerned, we want a limitation on the withdrawal of profits because it concerns activities financed by tax revenue. We believe that tax funds should go to what they are intended for, to activities such as school, health care and care. They should not go to pay out profits to private owners. This is the background to the fact that we want a stop to profit in welfare.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-642	Madam President, I would like After all, the public sector is buying services of other kinds. For example, you buy the service to build the buildings in which the activities are carried out. It also purchases the service to operate IT systems supported by these activities. In this case, there is a requirement for profit restrictions that only concern the soft business that is going on inside the buildings and that are ongoing with the support of these support systems that other suppliers from different backgrounds and other ownership conditions can deliver to the public sector activities of the municipalities without any limitation on profits. That is what I find strange in the Left Party's argumentation. You are making a difference between traditional male entrepreneurship and traditional female entrepreneurship. We were in the past a little bit on questioning the view of share capital. I regard the Left Party as a party that also protects economic equality in society. We should have good conditions for people who have only a small fortune and perhaps even a low income to be able to take advantage of the opportunities that society offers in the legislation we decide on here. One such opportunity is to be able to start and run a business. For a person who is newly arrived and has little experience of how it is to run a company in Sweden, but perhaps has such experience elsewhere, and has not earned enough capital to be able to go to the bank and borrow money, it may be an opportunity to start a small business, with reduced audit requirements and also a low input capital of 25 000 SEK. How does Lotta Johnsson Fornarve feel that this is consistent with the desire and demand for us to have economic equality in society?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-646	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that there is a huge difference between building and running a hospital; there are completely different conditions that apply. The fact that we want a stop to profit in welfare is due to the fact that this activity is financed with tax revenue, and tax revenue should not go down into private pockets. Every penny should be used as it was intended in welfare. This issue of share capital has been discussed in the past. We see that a certain amount of capital is needed to set up a limited liability company. It is simply necessary to have a little muscle, that you have a little to go on, if you are to manage to run a limited liability company. A well-thought-out and sustainable business idea is needed, and it takes a certain amount of capital at the bottom to do this. But the Left Party also sees the great risk that if we reduce share capital, we will have increased crime – that more rogue companies will be set up. The limitation of share capital is important to stop this.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-649	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. In the report, the committee proposes four announcements to the government in response to the motion for a resolution on the gender balance of company boards and the reduction of capital and audit requirements, as we have heard in the past. These are therefore the following points: The Government should work to ensure that it continues to be a matter for the owners of limited liability companies to determine the gender balance of the board. In the EU, the government should promote national self-determination in the distribution of gender in the boards of Swedish listed companies. The Government should return to the Riksdag with legislative proposals to reduce the requirement for share capital in private limited liability companies to SEK 25 000. The government should take the initiative to consider whether more companies can be exempted from the audit obligation. This is not the first time that what we are now debating and eventually deciding on is up for discussion. Exercises on gender balance on company boards have previously been dealt with by the committee in report 2013/ 14:CU8. The committee said at the time that it was important for the gender balance to be considerably more balanced than today in terms of participation in economic decision-making; it was clear at the time. The current gender balance in stock exchange boards is not satisfactory, but it is the responsibility of the owners to ensure that the board is characterised by diversity and that the collective expertise that exists among both men and women is exploited. This is why, in the committee's view at the time, a more balanced gender balance should be promoted by voluntary means and not by mandatory legislation. A majority in the committee says the same. We have not changed our attitude; that is what we think. This is not surprising: in the same way as there was 2013/ 14, there will be a majority in the committee precisely to refrain from using the quota tool. The Government of Damberg announced on the same day that the Civil Affairs Committee approved his report that he withdrew the bill because there was no majority in the Riksdag for it. But he had known that a long time ago, since the last CU decision. Why, then, is there no desire to resort to quotas? Obviously, there is a consensus that equal distribution of men and women is valuable. Different skills and experiences are added, and different opportunities are available; therefore, it should be even. We think it's good. But why not use quotas? The reason is simply that it is too blunt a tool, which does not achieve what it wants and which, moreover, is an abuse of the freedom to which entrepreneurs are entitled in this case. But gender equality pays off. Why not force them? Yes, companies have the right to go worse, to be dumber or to be less equal. It would be a better system of things if it were more equal, if they had better profitability and cared for it, but it is ultimately up to them to decide. Moreover, the tendency is for them to find out more and more what actually benefits them. Let us take the issue of quotas in our laps. If quotas were so good, why has the Riksdag not decided that there should be every other lady on our ballot papers, or that the final result will not be valid unless there are at least 40 per cent women? Why isn't that a good idea? Now it is full in the male quota, and the rest of the MPs become women. Does anyone seriously believe that this would mean that in my own party, for example, it would not be Ebba Busch Thor who was party leader, Acko Ankarberg Johansson who was party secretary and Emma Henriksson who was vice party leader? It is clear that women are capable and able to travel in parties that do not put a feminist. It is clear that women can make their way out of their own power and with the skills that exist. It is also clear that women add exactly the skills we are talking about and that an organisation such as the Christian Democrats, in my case, sees this and therefore brings women in. We need women, but we do not need quotas. If, now, to continue the thought experiment, we used quotas, think of Feminist initiatives! Something tells me that there would be a little too much women in them, but should we limit Feminist initiative and say: No, no, no! In your governing bodies or your representation here or there – as in my own municipality of Simrishamn, where Feminist initiative with Gudrun Schyman is very prominent – you have far too few men! It's supposed to be equal! It's up to them, their business idea, their way of presenting their politics. It is up to them to ensure that their decision-making bodies or their ballot papers look as they do. The second question concerns the share capital. It has gone from 100 000 to 50 000 crowns, and now a majority are prepared to test 25 000 crowns; the trend is correct. There we can say, as a reply to Lars Eriksson, that in the first step it is about a direction – we have gone from 100 to 50 to 25. Let me just point out that, despite the fact that we have a different monetary value today than when the change from 100 to 50 was made, there is very little difference between 50 and 25, compared with between 100 000 and 50 000 then. And it was possible to live with. Let's try and see. Is it the case that the whole world is falling down on Sweden and crime is completely exploding for $25,000? Do we think that organised crime is counting: 25 000 kroner- no, I will not engage in crime; it costs too much. But what I'm most worried about is how the red-green majority assumes that entrepreneurs are prone to commit crimes. That's not good. It sends out a signal that you do not enjoy in your parties, if I may be so presumptuous that I say so, and it is bad for the entrepreneurs to get glued on that they would be more inclined than others to sell themselves for $25,000. There are huge amounts of money being dealt with in limited liability companies. 25 000 kroner is small potatoes. It is almost obscene to accuse the entrepreneurs of so easily embarking on the course of the crime and calling them terrorists, organised crime, money launderers and fraudsters. What if there?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-672	Madam President, I would like Tuve Skånberg stood for the absolute low mark of this debate. No one has claimed that entrepreneurs are more likely to commit terrorist crimes. On the other hand, criminals are more likely to use public limited liability companies to commit serious crime. It is regrettable that even the Chairman of the Civil Committee does not take this seriously. Yes, there are important interests that stand against each other here. Some are about making it easier for people to contribute to the economy and realize their ideas. But the opposition must understand what the law enforcement authorities say: there are risks. The changes will increase opportunities for criminals. For the criminals count, Tuve Skånberg. It's about money. Madam President, I would like Now let me go into what I really wanted to talk about in this line shift and which makes me almost as upset. It is said that it is obvious that women are doing well and that women are so competent, so they will be doing well. But this is not about competence. In fact, we have a structural inequality, a structural discrimination against women and a structure in which men quota men. That is what we are talking about today. Let us be clear about that. The reason we do not discuss quotas for parliamentary parties is because the parties solved it themselves. We have actually achieved gender equality in the Swedish parliament, although a party counteracts this trend.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-676	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Hirvonen Falk, for the questions and comments! Even so, Annika, you owe me the answer. How can it be that the Christian Democrats get both party leaders, deputy party leaders and party secretaries without having the whip over their backs? No legislation has threatened us. We have seen that things are simply getting better. It benefits our policy and the soft values we think are important to bring forward. They are simply better messengers. It's good for the Christian Democrats with women. This is what the entrepreneurs see as well. They see that it is a competence and a resource. It is messengers and bearers of business ideas that are simply more valuable. Translated into the narrowest terms of the industry, it pays off with equality, quite simply. Let that process take its course! Let them discover what pays, because it will be the companies that use women to the full that will survive. The others won't be able to afford it. I cannot see that ideology should be laid as a whip over the back of companies, parties or associations – we have freedom of association. Besides, we have 1,600 municipal companies. Does Annika Hirvonen Falk also want to force them to make it equal?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-679	Madam President, I would like That would be great! You know what? Now I'm getting excited. It has certainly been a good thing that the Christian Democrats have realised that equality is successful. The problem is that the Swedish stock exchange companies have not done so. Therefore, the government has put pressure on the Swedish stock exchange companies by threatening legislation if they do not achieve gender equality by at least 40% of each gender. It's been effective. Keeping that pressure has been effective. It's worked. To wait and see, as Tuve Skånberg recommends, has not been effective. As a result, progress has slowed down. Yes, one day we will see equality even if we don't do anything – a beautiful day in maybe a few hundred years or so. But the fact is that so far it has been effective to act and enforce proposals that lead to gender equality. Waiting and seeing so far have not been very successful. Actually, I wonder if it is perhaps the case that Tuve Skånberg does not think that gender equality is important enough for the state to act. The state interferes in people's internal affairs in many different ways. We take care of children who get hurt. We require companies to have employee representatives on their boards. We have rules on how to store jelly raspberries on different shelves. But Tuve Skånberg does not think that gender equality is important enough for there to be rules that lead to it.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-684	Madam President, I would like Let me correct Annika Hirvonen Falk: It is not the goal that separates us, it is the means. It is therefore the quota itself that we think is wrong. It's not a good tool. In that case, it had been used in politics, in associations or at all where we wanted a change in some direction. If it had been so good, why is there nothing about it with the 1,600 municipal companies? You don't believe it yourself. We talk and discuss and use a good part of this afternoon for 200 people. Talk about special legislation! It affects 200 people, we were told here earlier. But 1,600 municipal companies are in any case much more. I think you're just looking for placard politics. There seems to be no real substance behind this. It's about being able to hold up a sign for the most feminist government. When the government parties only in a few cases have a woman as party leader, you have to take other things to shine and be feminist. But there's no point in working for 200 people and forcing them to do something that they're going to do anyway. It won't take 200 years for these 200 people. They're gonna make it.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-687	Madam President, I would like I was not really going to ask for a reply on this matter, but I cannot help it. No, Tuve Skånberg, you can't say that. When reference is made to what the state administration writes in its statements on a particular form of company – the Committee on Justice also addresses the issue in a statement on the work against terrorism – one cannot say that we claim that entrepreneurs would engage in this. It is astounding and remarkable that Mr Skånberg is expressing himself in this way, and I am extremely hurt to hear from the chairman of the committee that we Social Democrats, environmentalists and left-wing parties have said this in here. What we do is we take up what is stated in statements from the state administration. When the crime prevention authorities have given their opinion on this, I think it is proper to raise it. The committee's majority's document is clinically free from this. Nevertheless, reference is made to the work under way. I think this was the low point of the debate, as Annika Hirvonen said. I did not expect to hear this from the chairman of the committee.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-691	Madam President, I would like I actually quoted Lars Eriksson, Annika Hirvonen and others on the talk about terrorists, organised crime, money laundering and fraud. It is not the intention that those who consider going from a partnership to a limited company for 25 000 SEK will risk falling into that circle. Of course, there is the possibility of financial crime – we know that very well. But this is not the tool to get to it — an incentive of $25,000. We have the whole law enforcement agency that takes care of this. This can certainly be done better, and economic crime must be curbed with greater force and resources. But it's still on the margins. 25 000 kroner is not enough to say: here we run a huge risk. If the risk were to be so great, there was a greater difference between 100,000 and 50,000. Why, then, should we not go up if we now want to get to the crime scene and lie down for 75 000 kroner? It has not been mentioned. No, actually, Lars Eriksson is taking it from his toes. I think the rhetoric is misleading when you take it so seriously and say that this is something other than quoting you. I have a trading company myself. It cost me 800 kroner once to get it. I have a small company to get it clean and neat when I'm out giving lectures, when I write a book or when I do something else. I've been looking at a limited liability company, haven't I? But, no, it hasn't been like that. Now that it's 25,000, maybe I can use that form. But do I end up in the group of potential terrorists and organised crime?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-696	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tuve Skånberg, for your comments on my question! This is what I have been raising all along. The majority of the committee states that it wants to reduce in a first step. The committee's action then describes the ongoing work, namely the so-called SUPs. Then you understand that it is that way you want to go, if it is a first step. With regard to the first step, of course, we are looking at what the state administration has come up with for comments on this. That is what we have raised in this debate on the subject. Of course, it is perfectly reasonable for us to do so. Tuve Skånberg's party friends in the Committee on Justice have also been involved in the alarming wording of the Committee on Justice on these issues and how to use the companies. This is just swept away, like it's something that the sossians have made up to scare people. We are talking about statements from the Swedish state administration, which works with crime prevention issues. And we are talking about other committees in this Parliament that have discussed this. The EU Board has raised the issue for discussions on this at the Council meetings. There are a number of different institutions in this House that have produced views on this. That is not something the Social Democrats have made up. I think we should respect that.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-700	Madam President, I would like What's in the expression? What's in the first step? As I said in my speech, it is clear that it indicates a direction – from 100 000 to 50 000 to 25 000. Now let's stop at it. It is 25 000 that is the proposal, on which there is a majority. I guess it'll have to be evaluated. We will see if the whole world is collapsing with this 25 000 change. My tip is it won't be like that. The SUPs will be evaluated when they come on the table.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-701	Madam President, I would like Why should gender be more important than skills? If we are serious about gender not actually being crucial to our chances of success in life, the only way forward is to avoid any kind of quota. For us Swedish democrats, ownership is central, and it is important that the owners have the opportunity to set up the board that they want based on competence, knowledge and experience. Dividing people by sex and then quotaing a certain amount of each sex into a board becomes discriminatory in the individual case, where sex may well be decisive for the possibility of being on the board. Equality is for us about having equal rights and being treated, judged and seen as a person. There is a big difference between what the government wants, where women are seen as part of a collective. The government divides into groups instead of creating the conditions for individuals to succeed. In practice, introducing special treatment for women and special legislation for women increases the differences for the individual. You create a more segregated society. Instead, we want to see clear demands for equal treatment regardless of gender, where people should have the same opportunities and where your gender should never be decisive for what opportunities you have to get a seat on a board. According to the Government, the development is too slow, since the company boards do not correspond to the distribution of the population, where the surplus of men has grown in recent years but is significantly lower than on the company boards. But is it fair to compare with society at large? The government chooses to turn a blind eye to the fact that the number of women who have studied economics or engineering education at universities just enough years ago, in order to have the experience required on the boards, is considerably less than the number of men who attended the same education. For example, in 1997 24.2 per cent of those studying to civil engineers were women. Thus, more than 75 percent were men. Even in economics education, which is a common education, the previous number of men was highest. But nowadays it's the most women. You can look at what it looked like a few decades back. At the time, men were heavily over-represented in these educations, which is, of course, reflected in today's society. In universities, the distribution has later become more even. This suggests that, within a ten-year period, we will also have a more even gender balance on company boards, without quotas. According to the Swedish Democrats, it is not a good measure of equality, or lack of equality, if a board has more or less than 60 per cent of a gender on its board. There are also large company boards where the proportion of women on the board exceeds 60 per cent, which according to the government is a sign of inequality. An example of such a company is Kappahl, who since December 2016 has over 66 percent women on the board. If the government's quota law had applied when Kappahl had its annual general meeting, they would have had to replace one of the women on the board with one man. This is something that has never been a problem," says Annika Hirvonen Falk of the Green Party. According to her, it's only a problem when men are over-represented. Quotation goes against the attitude we have: that people should have equal opportunities regardless of gender and that gender should never be decisive for the opportunity to get a seat on a company board. Madam President, I would like We have also supported a reduction in the minimum share capital of public limited liability companies, a change that may not lead to new jobs but may make it a little easier for the smallest companies to become public limited liability companies. For companies that want to grow, there are advantages to being a limited liability company, and that we now support a reduction in share capital should be seen in the perspective of the surrounding countries having lower share capital than Sweden. In Finland, setting up a limited liability company requires EUR 2 500, i.e. just under SEK 25 000. Norway needs 30 000 NOK. If I go over Sundet to Denmark there is the possibility to start a company for only 1 Danish krona. Although the Danish company may not pay dividends until the share capital has been increased, dividends may not be the first to be paid by a newly created company. Sweden is thus clearly higher than the surrounding countries. Free enterprise rules allow those who want to be rogue to exploit the entrepreneurship of other countries, but we have not yet seen that Sweden is being flooded by rogue companies from either Finland or Denmark. The reason why the Swedish Democrats are now taking a stand for a reduction from SEK 50 000 to SEK 25 000 as the lowest share capital is that it would make it easier for those who are currently considering starting public limited liability companies. These may be people who already run a smaller company in some other form or who are currently about to start their first business. The benefits for the individual to run their company as a limited liability company can be many, and for those who see these benefits, the requirement of 25 000 or 50 000 kronor is probably not decisive for the choice. On the other hand, we believe that such a reduction would make it a little easier to get started, especially for all the smaller companies with low investment costs in general. Madam President, I would like This is an announcement, so now it is the government that is going to present the proposal. It is also the government that is tasked with creating a regulatory framework around it, thereby ensuring that crime does not increase. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would just like to mention that we have as our stated objective the reduction of unnecessary red tape for the smallest companies. That is why we also support the fact that more companies should be exempted from auditing. We look forward to seeing the proposals from the government.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-720	Madam President, I would like I wish sex were of no consequence. I wish we could be so gender-blind that we did not discuss the categories of man and woman. But, Madam President, that is not the way society looks today. If we were to close our eyes to the fact that today people are primarily divided according to their gender into two fixed categories, men and women, we would also close our eyes to the inequality that is built into the gender power system, where women, women's skills and what is categorized as women are generally valued lower. The first part of a feminist analysis must be about this insight and the second about wanting to do something about it. Today we are discussing just such a proposal that can bring about change. I am in favour of introducing quotas on company boards, because we have inequality and the quota tool is effective in countering this. We have seen this in Norway, and we see that more and more of the countries in our neighbourhood are taking this path, because they see that we have inequality, and that inequality is unprofitable and damages competitiveness. Of course, it is also a question of human rights. That is why, Madam President, we cannot be as gender-blind today as the Swedish Democrats want to be. If we are, we will not tackle the problems of inequality.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-725	Madam President, I would like I did not get a real question, so I have to take this opportunity to ask the Green Party a question: why is it not a problem that Kappahl has more than 60% women on its board, while it is a problem when a board consists of more than 60% men? Actually, I can't get it together. If so, it should be the same problem with it. I also think it is directly discriminatory against those who sit on Kappahl's board to say that they have too many women, because I think it seems to be highly competent women who sit on that board. I understand why Kappahl has so many women. They market themselves above all against women, and then there may be an advantage to have women on the board who may have a greater insight into those segments. I really do not understand why the Green Party is opposed to this at all. The Green Party constantly tends to punish women in different ways. It is the same when it comes to companies in school and health care, where many women work, not being allowed to make money. However, it is perfectly okay for the man who drives the truck with the goods there to make as much money as he wants, and the one who digs with excavators in the school yard can have as much profit as he can on what he digs. They are constantly targeting women rather than women. I would like an answer as to why the Green Party is doing so.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-730	Madam President, I would like The Green Party is working to ensure that it is not always a man who owns the digging company. I didn't ask Mikael Eskilandersson any questions, because I don't think I'm going to get so much out of any answer. Instead, I took the line because I noticed that Mikael Eskilandersson had not really grasped the feminist analysis and therefore did not understand why a party such as the Environmental Party, which aims not to categorize people based on gender, still sees the need to use tools that meet and that one must see that people today are treated differently based on gender in order to achieve results. Madam President, I would like I do not think it is a problem that an individual company has an over-representation of women in a society where women are structurally discriminated against. However, the Government's proposal is gender neutral in that it requires at least 40% of each sex to be represented. This can be discussed. There are organisations dealing with quotas that choose to only quota the under-represented sex or sub-represented groups. If the Swedish Democrats make such proposals, I am open to it, but the absolutely central problem is that women are today strongly under-represented in the management of the stock exchange companies, especially at the CEO level. Although we have worked for a long time to achieve gender equality on the boards, it stands and rammers.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-734	Madam President, I would like This must be seen in a broader perspective than just the fact that there are no 50% women and 50% men on each board of directors. It is a fact that more men than women have previously trained as a civil engineer, for example, which is a fairly common education among those on company boards. Just as little as 20 years ago, 75 percent of men were trained as civil engineers, and I think that has a much greater impact than they have between their legs. It's kind of hard for me to see that that's what it's all about. I still do not really understand the thinking that it is okay to quota but apparently only one way: Kappahl should be allowed to have more women on their board, but in other companies that have a surplus of men it is a problem. I don't really see the problem that way. You have to look more closely at each board, and there is no way to do that. Then it is better for the owners to take the responsibility to appoint the most competent board. Then it is important that the owners ignore gender rather than that they should be forced to have half of each sex.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-737	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Eskilandersson, for your speech. That's interesting. I remember the debate that took place a few years ago. At the time, Mikael Eskilandersson argued that Swedish companies have many problems that distort competition and impair their ability to compete. However, the requirement for share capital is not one of them. ––– As we see it, there is no reason now to devalue the value of public limited liability companies. ––– It is not a significant obstacle to entrepreneurship that the share capital is SEK 50 000. – – Of course, we do not think that all companies are rogue. But if you remove the barriers that exist, there will of course be more rogue companies. – – – If the EU imposes strange rules, which say that 1 krona or 1 euro should be enough to start a limited liability company, it actually erodes the entire value of a limited liability company in the long term. ..................................................... This is what Mikael Eskilandersson said in the debate a few years ago. Today he claims diametrically, quite different views on all points. What I find most remarkable is that Mikael Eskilandersson and the Swedish Democrats from having basically reserved for everything in the Riksdag that is about what the EU should have the right to do now welcomes that the EU should address the issues of the share capital and the SUP companies. This must be the most remarkable turn. If we look at the views of the Swedish Democrats on European issues, we see that this must be one of the few questions of all the issues that they think are positive about the EU.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-741	Madam President, I would like No, that's a serious misunderstanding. We in the Swedish Democrats are broadly in the same position – with the difference that we now want 25 000 SEK as a limit. We have not been in favour of any SUPs or any such thing on the part of the European Union. However, we have looked at what it looks like in Norway, for example. There it is considerably less than 50 000. We do not really see any reason why it should be the most expensive in Sweden, i.e. more expensive than in all other Nordic countries – quite skilfully much more expensive. Normalisation of what otherwise applies in the Nordic countries and not what applies in Europe has nothing to do with SUPs. However, we do not understand that depending on whether you are on one or the other side of the border with Norway or Finland you should have twice as much in share capital. Now it is up to the government to respond to how this is to be implemented. We have said that it should be on the same line, i.e. about SEK 25 000.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-743	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Eskilandersson, for your comments on my question. The Swedish Democrats support the majority text, every word, in the committee's report. You can't just choose what to stand behind. You are in favour of seeing the reduction in a first step, that is, the Swedish Democrats want to go further than the reduction to SEK 25 000. A few years ago you were completely alien to the issue at all. Today, the Swedish Democrats welcome the fact that the EU is taking decisions on these issues, to which the individual Member States must comply. It must be for us who have spent some time studying EU issues one of the few issues in this House that the Swedish Democrats think the EU should devote itself to at all. Then this is what the Swedish Democrats think the EU should do – of all questions! There are a lot of issues that one might think the European Union should engage in or not, but that is what you are targeting now. The report states that the EU should be given the power to take these decisions in relation to these companies, and that is what Mikael Eskilandersson is going to vote in favour of today. The report contains wordings on the work in progress. That is why we are discussing the SUPs. That's where Mikael Eskilandersson must be going. Otherwise, Mikael Eskilandersson will have to explain to the House what the first step is in your version. Those of you who make up the majority of the issue do not seem to be talking together or agreeing on what it means, which makes it even stranger to say that it should be seen as a first step.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-747	Madam President, I would like No, maybe we're not really talking about what a first step means. For my part, a first step means changing from SEK 50 000 to SEK 25 000 and making an announcement to the government to produce a legislative proposal. I have not agreed to anything else, and I have not agreed to anything else. Then there was the question of whether certain wordings can be interpreted as saying that the Swedish Democrats are in favour of SUPs in the EU. I assume that the issue will come up as a point of its own in due course and that we will then be able to take a position on it. Today, we only consider the issue of 50 000 or 25 000 as the lowest share capital, and then we take the position of 25 000 SEK as the lowest share capital. We see it as a more valid amount in the Nordic countries because our neighbours have that amount. Although our neighbours have this amount, and Denmark has 1 krona, I do not see when I go home to Skåne lots of rogue Danish companies that invade Skåne. In theory, they could do so if it is the way the Social Democrats, as representatives of the government, try to paint. From the Social Democrats we have always been told that there will be a lot of rogue companies if capital is reduced. But this has not really been the case in our neighbouring countries. The Swedish Democrats therefore see no reason why it should be twice as expensive to start a limited company in Sweden.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-750	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. This is the first time I have done so in this House, and it is good to be able to say that there are four announcements. I expect the government to come back with, for example, a proposal on auditing, which we are going to get through today. Liberals believe that the lack of women in the highest positions in business is a major power problem that cannot be accepted. The public has a responsibility to promote equal access to power and to show the way, in particular, through equal career development and recruitment to public authorities and publicly owned companies. The Alliance did so during our eight years in power, especially when it comes to recruitment to government agencies and publicly owned companies. However, which members of the board of directors are ultimately an ownership responsibility. Respect for the freedom of entrepreneurs to decide for themselves on the composition of the Management Board shall be maintained. It is not the same as that it would be uninteresting what gender balance exists on the boards, but it affects what methods we in the Liberals want to use to achieve equal boards. For example, the Liberals welcome the fact that more and more owners voluntarily apply a quota principle. This is in line with the principle of ownership and is also reflected in the Corporate Governance Code developed by the Swedish Corporate Governance Board, which has been updated with new gender equality rules in 2014. Among other things, it says that the companies' election preparations should in particular strive for gender balance and justify their proposals in the light of that principle. In this way, the Liberals work when we appoint people to various assignments, put our parliamentary lists and so on. It is a voluntary principle that we are working on. The college has also stated that owners must accelerate development, and set three targets in 2014. Firstly, a share of 40% for the least represented sex on the board of directors in 2020; secondly, that in 2017, the large companies should have an average of 35% women on their boards and, thirdly, that the smaller companies are approaching 30% by 2017. The latest statistics show that the proportion of women among elected members has increased to 36 per cent in large enterprises. It is still far from an equal distribution, but progress, as everyone can see, is moving in the right direction – all except the red-green government. So far, therefore, developments indicate that the industry's own schedule for achieving gender balance is being followed up and achieved. Allbright's latest report uses words that are turned and are reaching new record levels. Approximately 32% has been achieved, and the large companies are now approaching 35%. So the goals that have been set have been achieved. The government comes here to the Riksdag and proposes to achieve 40 per cent by 2019 while the industry itself says 40 per cent by 2020. So far, we are reaching our goals, so legislation is totally unnecessary. The government has threatened legislation if good progress is not achieved. Good progress is being achieved, but the Red-Green Government is still planning to come up with legislation. It does not keep its own word; it breaks its own promise. It shows quite clearly that this is basically about the government wanting to give more power to the state and politicians and less to volunteering. Since there are already clearly established guidelines achieved through self-regulation, the aim can hardly be to raise the profile of an issue which has been insufficiently taken into account. For the government, it is not a question of achieving a move towards a more balanced gender balance, it is simply a question of unwittingly imposing legislation when the industry is self-regulating. It's totally unnecessary. In a situation where the proportion of women on company boards increases year by year through the business sector's own measures, including through the formulated Corporate Governance Code and a clearly stated timetable, the Liberals feel that it is totally out of the question to consider legislation. Liberals will not support the bill. As far as state-owned companies are concerned, there is already a similar ownership policy developed by the Alliance. It strives for gender balance in the boards. The proportion of women and men on a private company board is largely an issue in which owners must assume their own responsibilities. It should not be placed in the hands of the State to decide this. Similarly, it is LO's members and not the state that will determine the gender distribution on LO's board, in order to compare with another important private social actor. You can also look at one of LO's members, Building, in which we have Members here who are members. Building lack of equality is total. Yet the government does not want to legislate there. Of course, there is a need for a series of measures that can affect women's ability to take up board positions. In particular, it is important that the state and the municipality set good examples and that women's opportunities to start and run businesses are safeguarded. There is therefore an irony in the so-called feminist government's proposal to legislate on gender quotas on company boards. At the same time, legislative changes are being flagged to make private alternatives in women's dominated sectors more difficult or impossible. Where women are, you should not be allowed to run a business, but where men are, you should be allowed to run a business. Annika Hirvonen Falk says that Annika Falkengren believes that it can lead to a worse development that we do not threaten with legislation. It gets very strange when you threaten with legislation and companies achieve this policy and good development, but you still want legislation. The thing about something is the rogue in the context.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-765	Madam President, I would like I hope Robert Hannah's right. I hope that progress will continue anyway. I hope this is not the way Annika Falkengren seems to fear. I hope that it will not be as it was last, when the bourgeois parties removed the pressure on the issue by saying that there will be no legislation on quotas. I hope so. But history suggests that the decision that Robert Hannah is taking today will slow down the work on gender equality and prevent us from achieving gender equality on the boards of stock exchange companies in the way that we would have done if the government's proposal had gone through. Robert Hannah says that it is not the policy to decide on gender equality in stock exchange companies. What other gender issues should we not concern ourselves with? In which other arenas in society is gender equality not important enough for political engagement?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-768	Madam President, I would like What is interesting in this context is that it is the Green Party and the government that accuse the Liberals of not working for gender equality. If there were any parties in Sweden that removed the pressure on private actors to have equal boards, it was they in the red-green government. It was your government and your minister, Annika Hirvonen Falk. It was the Green Party that did this all the time by saying: If we do not get a positive development, we will come to Parliament with legislation. Then there will be a positive development, but you still come to the Swedish parliament and want to quota and legislate. It's unserious. What the government proposed was legislation of 40 per cent by 2019. The industry itself decided on 40 per cent in 2014 by 2020. It is completely unserious to threaten legislation when developments are moving in the right direction, when even Allbright writes that the wind has turned and that we are reaching new record levels. Coming to say that we need legislation when developments are moving in a positive direction is unserious. Politicians have been threatening for many years that if it does not go in a positive direction, they can think of legislation. It is the Green Party and the Red Green Government that have removed the pressure in this case. It is by no means the Liberals who have done so. It is you who will have to answer for what Annika Falkengren is now threatening with. It's not the Liberals. If we see that developments will stop in the future, we might consider looking at the issue, but it does not. Everything points in the right direction. Annika Hirvonen Falk compares with the countries with quotas. Yes, but answer the question why Sweden, although we do not have quotas, is second in the whole of Europe and second in the EU in the case of big companies! We have a positive development. The countries with quotas, such as the Netherlands, have 30%. Germany has 30%. We have higher than that already today. We do not need quotas. Progress is moving in the right direction. The companies do it themselves. We do not need any more state intervention or politicians involved.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-773	Madam President, I would like If development does not continue and the companies do not achieve the gender equality target of at least 40% by 2020, will the Liberals be prepared to do what is necessary to achieve gender equality on the boards of stock exchange companies?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-774	Madam President, I would like I am absolutely convinced that these companies, which have so far set and achieved their own goals, will resolve the matter. I am absolutely convinced that developments are moving in the right direction. The last time new members were elected to the board of directors, 46 per cent of all elected women were elected. That is a very positive development, I would say. Of course, the Liberals will always review and re-evaluate legislation. We do so with all the legislation. However, as things stand today, it is totally unserious for the government to propose regulated quotas in 2019, when private companies themselves propose a system to achieve the same target by 2020. It's not serious. We will look at it and follow developments, but we will not threaten with legislation or other quota measures when they are not needed at all. Basically, this is the territory of private companies themselves, and they need to manage their own gender equality. Just as the Liberals do their own gender equality, it must be up to them. I believe much more in the private options in this case. They've proven to be profitable. If you look at EU statistics, you can see that everything speaks in Sweden's favour. The government also wants to introduce some kind of EU legislation in this area. It is said to be 27%, as the EU is now proposing. But we are above 27%, so why should we agree to regulated quotas? It's completely unnecessary. If developments really stop, let us look at the issue, but right now there is no need whatsoever for it. I'm reading Allbright's reports. I read the news articles. I will follow developments. Of course, the whole Liberals do.
i-Bco4S6s9Lgmt9roC71x9ga	Madam President, I would like The Civil Committee's report 7, Remuneration Law, is a motion report which deals with 18 motions from the general exercise period 2015/ 16 and 2016/ 17. I would like to highlight one of these 18 motions and call for the approval of reservation 1 where it is raised. This means that the Christian Democrats want to change Chapter 17. Section 14 of the Insurance Contracts Act. Why do we want to do that? This is a bit technical, but I think there are so many people involved. The Insurance Contracts Act hampers competition in the group insurance market, allowing rogue insurance companies to shoe themselves at the expense of consumers. Consumers can get caught, and they can get other policy conditions by transferring their insurance to other group insurance policies without knowing it. As a consumer, it is difficult to form an idea of insurance and to negotiate with insurance companies for better insurance terms. In practice, there is no real possibility for the individual consumer to negotiate. The idea of group insurance that several million consumers have in Sweden is that consumer group representatives, as non-profit associations and trade unions, should be able to negotiate better prices and conditions for the groups they represent. This increases competition in the insurance market and thus improves insurance conditions. One example is that in the past there were basically no house insurance policies that replaced damage to genuine house sponges, which is one of the worst that can affect a house. However, when group insurance began to cover these damages, the rest of the market for residential insurance felt obliged to follow suit, and now there is this insurance. Strangely enough, if a non-profit association or trade union succeeds in negotiating better group insurance conditions for its members with another insurance company, there is a risk that the association or trade union may face major problems. That should not be the case. According to Chapter 17. However, Section 14 of the Insurance Contracts Act states that if, as a group representative – i.e. the association or trade union – the cooperation with the insurance company ends the group insurance for all members or consumers who have this group insurance. This means that the group representative is thrown into an administrative and costly chaos, where the group representative is forced to start over from square one and take out every single insurance policy. Ideal associations and trade unions often have little resources, and the consequences are that it is more difficult for them to change group insurance companies and that both competition and consumer benefits are excluded. When insurance policies are forced to be resubmitted, a window opens for an unserious insurance company to try – regardless of legislation, cooperation agreements, insurance terms, negotiating documents etc. – to keep its customers and claim that it is a direct insurance policy through negative contractual ties. Chapter 17 Section 14 of the Insurance Contracts Act is in its current wording almost counterproductive and needs to be amended. The reason is that competition in group insurance is hindered by weakening incentives for associations and trade unions to negotiate better group insurance. In addition, a window of time is opened for less well-calculated insurance companies to try to keep groups of policyholders, despite the fact that group insurance is terminated. However, the starting point for changing this legal framework may be, as is the case today, that when group insurance companies change, group insurance ends for all consumers who have group insurance. A change can therefore stop at adding to the law that when the insurance premiums are not higher for all group policyholders and the scope of the insurance is at least the same, the group insurance does not have to end but can be transferred to the new group insurance company. None of the consumers who have group insurance suffer any damage or loss. This is the Christian Democrats' proposal, and it would have been nice to hear from the majority why this cannot be implemented.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-790	Madam President, I would like Every year thousands of people in Sweden suffer neck injuries. A large part of the damage is caused by road accidents. Most victims are restored, but for many of those who have been injured, the injuries lead to disability. For many, this means a great change, physical and mental stress and, in some cases, lengthy processes with insurance companies to obtain financial compensation for the damage. In Trafikskaskaden, the injured person can have his or her case examined. The Board shall be independent and shall settle disputes between injured persons and their insurance companies. However, the Board has received strong criticism, as many road accident victims and relatives feel that the trial in Trafikskaden is not legally secure. I have also been in contact with many road users who confirm this picture. Against this background, I have written a motion in which, among other things, I urge the government to set up an investigation to investigate the operation of the Trafikskadet Board from a legal certainty perspective. Their confidence in the Swedish Transport Safety Agency's ability to examine cases objectively, unbound and legally is low and has steadily decreased for a long time. The fact that road users themselves have such little confidence in the Board should be sufficient reason for the Government to start a thorough investigation into the Board's activities as soon as possible. The majority of the committee rejects my motion and refers to two government investigations with many years on the back. The fact that two State investigations from 1995 and 2009 have considered that the Trafikskadnämnden is functioning satisfactorily does not say anything about the functioning of the Board today. A review of the Board must, of course, be based on as recent a basis as possible. It is also a matter of fact that the investigative directives for any of these investigations did not include a review of the Board. There is reason to seriously question the integrity of the Trafikskareknämnden. Insurance companies have a great influence on the board. Two insurance representatives are involved in making decisions on matters. This gives insurance companies a great deal of leverage over the victims of road traffic accidents. It is not reasonable for one party to a dispute to have such an advantage in a dispute panel. There are also two consumer representatives from the trade union movement. It would have been more reasonable if they had come from one of the associations of road accident victims, who have the best knowledge and experience of road traffic accidents. The strong position of insurance companies in the Board is confirmed by the fact that the Board usually follows the proposals presented by the companies. In 2015, the Board approved the insurance companies' proposal in 80 per cent of the cases. When an accident occurs, a person is investigated by the injured person's insurance company. The company's doctors don't see the patient, but they're going through previous medical records. It is doctors who work in health care who extra-scramble the companies as medical advisors to a lucrative compensation. It is clear that there is a great risk of a conflict of interest when the doctors who speak are paid directly by the insurance companies. The review of the 2015 Caliber radio programme also shows that the Board's own doctors have several times worked for insurance companies and that the Board advises and warns road users to contact doctors who tend to stand on the patient's side in disputes between insurance companies and the injured. The introduction of the so-called dispute settlement procedure has also led to deterioration for the individual. In the past, it was sufficient for the injured party to ask the insurance company for the matter to be examined in the Board. The company then compiled a memorandum on which the injured person could comment and supplement. Today, the injured person should turn directly to the Board and then produce the material – medical statements, etc. – that he or she wishes to invoke. This presents great difficulties for the injured person, who often lacks a lawyer. Here the injured person is expected to be his own lawyer in a situation where he or she has enough difficulty in making life work. In a case where 16-year-old injured boy is denied compensation, the insurance company writes that you can ask a 16-year-old to understand how injured he is after a year, so that he knows what he will be able to do in the future and can train accordingly. It is difficult to find words for this shameful behaviour by the insurance company in question. With the strong position of the Board, an opinion from the Board will in practice be the end of the claims settlement. In almost all cases, the injured person chooses not to go to court because it involves a major financial risk for the injured person. There is a need for a review of the whole process of compensation for road users. It is clear that there is a need for a whole new approach to these issues. The thousands of traffic and neck injuries have suffered long enough. It is not worthy of treating injured people in this way. A thorough review and review of the work of the Traffic Damage Board is a good start. I support my second reservation.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-801	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservation No 3. This also applies to joint and several liability of young people. For the Liberals, it is important that young people and children who have caused harm by committing crimes should also do their own thing, but there must be a way out for these people too. Unauthorised persons who have committed single crimes must be given the opportunity to atone for what they have done and move on. The solidarity-based liability for damages that exists today, and which also applies to people who are underage, means that many young people who have committed crimes together with others but later left crime behind may begin their adult life with a debt burden because the other young people have not paid their share of the compensation. Even if at the time of the crime you were an adult, you are therefore jointly and severally liable for other people's crimes and their part of the damages. The fact that young people who have assumed their responsibilities, paid their share of the debt and paid for their crimes should be forced to bear the burden of the unpaid damages of others makes it extremely difficult for young people to break a criminal activity and lifestyle. That is why we in the Liberals believe that joint and several liability for persons under the age of 18 should be removed. Mr President, I would like to I come from Gothenburg, a city that has been incredibly affected by crime lately. There's been a lot of shootings and stuff. I know that many of these guys are recruited when they're underage, to commit crimes instead of older people. Many of them want to live an honest life and do the right thing, but we in the state are making it incredibly difficult for defectors to get support from the social services, the police and other entities – if we maintain a system in which the young person is to be forced to pay for all those who have committed crimes with them. It will be difficult for us as a state and politicians to get someone to drop out if the person in question does not see an opportunity to become debt-free and start over again after paying off his crime, paying his share of the debt and taking his share of the penalty. That is why the Liberals believe that this legislation is incredibly important to implement and that we should call for this to be approved. And I hope that next year the other parties will think about this. It is an incredibly important part of stopping the gang crime that is currently spreading in Sweden.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-808	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the motion to be rejected and, therefore, for the proposal in the report on the right to compensation. I would like to devote my speaking time in this debate to an issue in the area of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs which, more than others, has created indignation and commitment in me, and that is the treatment of road users. I have talked to people and read about people of different ages who told me about their lives after a traffic accident that has resulted in a neck injury. These are often very sad stories about how people are distrusted and not compensated for the damage or incapacity to work they have suffered and about insurance doctors who reject the opinions of treating doctors. I have met with great mistrust of the system we have, where the experience is that no one is speaking for the insured person. I have had conversations with people who have pursued their cause further in court but there lost and suffered large debts on top of injury and incapacity for work. When we receive testimony from so many people who have similar experiences and who do not trust our system, we need to act. The problem, which has become increasingly clear to me and which Members of Parliament from both the Social Democrats and other parties have already highlighted in this House through debates, motions and questions, is complex. It is in many respects an insurance doctor who has a great influence on the assessment of the damage and the occurrence of the injury. The inpartiality of these doctors is called into question because they are paid by insurance companies. The supervision of insurance doctors is lacking because Finansinspektionen is the supervisory authority when it comes to the insurance industry and does not have the competence to assess doctors' professional activities. There is also evidence that the length of proceedings is often excessive. Sometimes it takes several years for the injured person to receive compensation, and the information to the insured person is often inadequate. The Road Safety Board is the dispute resolution committee that exists, and that is where the insured appeal decisions they are not satisfied with. The influence of insurance companies and their medical advisers is also considered to be too great. The evidence requirements are also very high in Trafikskaden. Mr President, I would like to We as elected representatives need to acquire broad knowledge and basis for our decisions. This morning, together with two other Members, I organised a seminar precisely to gain more knowledge and hold talks with both insurance companies and victims. During the seminar, a study was presented among the neck-damaged, where it was found that there was a huge difference between the assessment of disability rates by insurance doctors and treating physicians. Getting the link between accident and injury approved has become more difficult, and more and more are dissatisfied with the treatment of insurance companies. Unlike the previous government, this government has taken note of the criticisms that have been made in the area of motor insurance, and action has been taken. In May last year, the Government decided to commission Finansinspektionen to map and analyse insurance companies' processes and procedures regarding personal injuries in order to clarify whether good insurance standards for claims regulation are maintained. In particular, the handling of the injured should be highlighted, and the role of medical practitioners in relation to treating doctors and reimbursement systems should be mapped. Finansinspektionen will return with an action plan for continued efforts. The criticism that has been highlighted also applies to the care and treatment of people with neck injuries and long-term pain. There is great uncertainty in Swedish healthcare about both diagnosis and treatment of the neck injured. Many injured people testify that the health care system believes that the pain is not due to neck injuries but is psychological and that it is referred to therapy. At the same time, people have received better help abroad – most recently on Monday SVT reported News about such a case. If knowledge is not available in healthcare, this will of course create bad conditions for injured persons to receive the right compensation from the insurance. The need for a more comprehensive knowledge and research in the field was something that all participants at the seminar I mentioned earlier agreed on – everyone, from injured to insurance companies. It is therefore extremely important that the National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with evaluating and identifying the conditions for health care to offer good care to people with road injuries. It should also assess the need for and the possibility of developing national knowledge support for healthcare in this area, which would include actions to promote good patient treatment. I am pleased that the government has taken these initiatives, and I very much hope that both the National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority will present good analyses, surveys and proposals for changes that will enable us to take steps towards better and more legally secure motor insurance.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-819	Mr President, I would like to I chose to take a line on Johanna Haraldsson because she represents one of the government parties. You in the majority have decided to reject my motion, and I wonder how you reason. You and I seem to have the same picture of the situation of road users, with all the difficulties they face, for example in terms of receiving compensation and in terms of the strong influence of insurance doctors. The traffic accident committee has received massive criticism from many road accident victims for a long number of years, which we also heard today at the seminar. This is not a new issue. The road accident victims feel that the trial in Trafikskadnämnden is not objective, unbound and legally secure. I myself – just like you – have been in contact with many road users who confirm this picture. Do you not think, now that the traffic damage committee's ability to examine matters in a legally secure manner is so low that this should be sufficient grounds for taking the initiative to carry out a thorough investigation as soon as possible, with the aim of reviewing the operation of the Traffic Damage Board from a legal certainty perspective?
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-824	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Johnsson, for raising this issue as well. It is extremely important for many people, but it is also a very complex issue with many aspects and many different interests playing on the market. I believe that the government has taken note of some of the most important of these in the assignments given to the authorities, the National Board of Health and Welfare and the Financial Supervisory Authority. It is about care, treatment and knowledge support when we talk about the National Board of Health and Welfare. With regard to the second aspect, it is about the legal certainty of the assessment by insurance companies and, in the next step, also about the role of insurance doctors. I think that this review is a clear proof that the government is taking this issue seriously.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-827	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I agree that it is a good thing that the government has taken up this issue. I am also in favour of the measures that have been taken. But I believe that this is not enough – more needs to be done. You have to look at the Traffic Damage Board in depth. You have to look at how it really works, because there has been so much criticism on the part of road users, and this criticism is massive. It is clear that insurance companies have a strong influence – too strong – on the Board. We also see how, in the vast majority of cases dealt with in the Board, the companies follow their line. In 2015, this was done in 80% of cases, which I think speaks clearly. There are also many other things to say about the Trafikskademnämnden which I think shows that you have to get to the bottom of how it works. One example is the fact that the road accident victims themselves are not represented on the board, which I think is very negative.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-831	Mr President, I would like to There is absolutely a lot of criticism, but I think it is rooted in the management from the beginning. It's about both health care and insurance companies. When this is passed on in the chain, discontent is passed on. On paper, I would say that the Trafikskadsnämnden does not seem to be overweight of any interest. However, if there are still major problems after these evaluations and the proposals that I hope both the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority will present – if these measures do not have an effect on confidence in the whole process – one must of course move forward in the chain and look at more parts. I think we should let the work that has started take its course. Then we can continue if we see that it does not work.
i-VSaytqeitWk3d6tiea9hv6	Mr President, I would like to The KU5 concerns the follow-up to Parliament's application of the principle of subsidiarity. According to the parliamentary order, the Constitutional Committee must follow this work and communicate its observations to the House once a year. This report presents the results of the follow-up carried out in 2015. The report is also based on opinions received from other parliamentary committees. The principle of subsidiarity is that decisions should be taken as effectively as possible and as closely as possible to the citizens. It is used to determine whether an issue should be decided at EU level or in the Member States. So this is about the division of powers between the national parliaments and the European Union. In the context of the adoption of the Lisbon Treaty, the influence of national parliaments was strengthened, including through the possibility introduced by the subsidiarity test and the possibility of giving a subsidiarity warning. It is important for Parliament to apply the opportunity created by the Treaty of Lisbon: that, together with other national parliaments, we can either influence the content of a legislative proposal or prevent further consideration of the legislative proposal. Through these possibilities, Parliament can take decisions with other national parliaments that end up as close to the citizens as possible. It is important from a democratic point of view that Swedish citizens feel that the decisions taken are not far from them and that decisions are anchored in everyday Swedish life. In 2015, the Commission submitted 21 legislative proposals for the examination of subsidiarity, and Parliament issued a reasoned opinion. This is a clear reduction in the number of draft Commission proposals compared with the previous year. As regards Parliament, and also the other national parliaments, we can also see a decrease in the number of reasoned opinions. This is in a sense a good thing, because it gives us more time to be able to put more focus on implementing, applying and evaluating the legislation that is already in place. Mr President, I would like to A recurring question in the KU5 concerns the Commission's justifications. Article 5 of Protocol No 2 on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality provides that the draft legislative acts are to be justified in respect of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. This applies whether it is the Commission or someone else who is the proposer. In the context of previous follow-ups, we have found shortcomings in the Commission's justifications for its legislative proposals, that is to say, why it would be better to decide on a legislative proposal at Union level. The shortcomings have been the fact that the justifications have been incomplete, concise or completely lacking, which makes it difficult for national Parliaments to assess whether or not a proposal complies with the principle of subsidiarity. The follow-up in this report shows that there were no justifications in 5 out of 21 drafts, i.e. 23% of all drafts. We should not be fooled by the fact that the percentage has increased because it is actually a small number of drafts. The reasons which are inadequate or completely lacking therefore concern a smaller number of Commission drafts than in the previous year. Nor have the committees here in Parliament that have spoken to the KU raised any objections to the justifications based on the principle of subsidiarity, which may give the impression that the shortcomings may be of some other nature. Nevertheless, the problem of inadequate justifications by the Commission still persists. And as long as these shortcomings remain, this is a weakness in the legislative process within the Union, for which the Commission is ultimately responsible. It is therefore important that it is clear how the Commission has considered whether or not the proposals comply with the principle of subsidiarity. The Commission, like other proposers, has an absolute obligation to justify its draft legislative acts, as provided for in Protocol No 2. The KU will continue to monitor this issue. Furthermore, Mr President, the KU has repeatedly stressed the value of the exchange of information between national parliaments, as the KU points out here too. Against this background, the committee also asked for a comment from the other parliamentary committees on whether any contacts had been made with other national parliaments with a view to obtaining information on ongoing subsidiarity reviews. It is noted, as with several previous follow-up reports, that none of the committees reported having had contacts with other national parliaments. If we do not communicate with other parliaments, we may miss out on valuable information. However, we are also missing out on the possibility of achieving the limit values contained in the Treaty so that we could influence the content of, or even stop, a legislative proposal. In order to ensure the effective exercise of parliamentary powers with regard to the monitoring of the principle of subsidiarity, greater cooperation between national parliaments is required. This issue must be discussed with greater seriousness, Mr President, and to a greater extent. In this discussion, we in Parliament should examine ourselves, look at what we have done and ask ourselves what we can do in our quest for better cooperation in these respects. In this context, however, it should be pointed out that Parliament's representative to the EU institutions is a possible way of exchanging information with other national parliaments. Some of the committees that have given opinions to the KU say that they have had contacts with the representative of the Riksdag and found that the contacts are working well and that the information they have received has been valuable. This is, of course, a constructive part on the road to improvement, but not fully enough to meet the full purpose of the subsidiarity test in practice. The last part that I would like to highlight here, Mr President, and which is also mentioned in the report is about the database called IPEX. The KU has also requested comments from the committees consulted on the collection of information from IPEX. It has revealed that the information contained in IPEX is neither complete nor relevant when committees have dealt with subsidiarity matters, as we have also heard in the past. There is, for example, a lack of data from some Member States, and information that has been submitted is often not written in English but in other original languages. In addition, the deadline for subsidiarity matters starts to run simultaneously in all Member States, which means that, as a rule, the committees will benefit only from IPEX during the preparation of a dossier. This is a recurring problem. The committee therefore highlights the limited usefulness of the database and believes that it should be improved. Therefore, in the KU, we write that the Riksdag should work to develop IPEX into a more effective tool for the exchange of information between national parliaments. Mr President, I would like to I think I have been quite clear in highlighting the importance of applying the principle of subsidiarity and I hope that Parliament's committees continue to do so – it applies to all committees – and that they also submit their opinions to the KU regarding their observations. Then we in the KU will be better able to maintain the follow-up to the application of the principle of subsidiarity, which we shall present here every year. Hopefully, I will be standing here again in January next year and will tell you about all the improvements that have been made, as well as the eagerness of the committees to express their views on the observations made during the examination of subsidiarity matters.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-854	Mr President, I would like to According to Chapter 9 of the Riksdag Order. Section 20, second paragraph, has the Riksdag to examine whether a draft EU legislative act violates the so-called subsidiarity principle, i.e. the principle that decisions should be taken as efficiently and as closely as possible to the citizen. In practice, it is the committees that do the trials under Chapter 7. Paragraph 8, second paragraph. We shall report annually to the House on the observations we make. That's why we're here today. Much of it has already been taken up by Emanuel, so I will not develop it any further. This year's follow-up could be summarised in three observations. The first is that we are now beginning to see the results of the Commission's ambitions to improve legislation. For some time now, the Commission has set itself the objective of presenting fewer proposals than it has done in the past. It is entirely in order to better implement, implement and evaluate existing legislation. There is therefore a focus on quality rather than quantity. We in the Constitutional Committee take a positive view of developments and, as a result, we note that the number of subsidiarity tests is reduced. During the current period, i.e. calendar year 2015, 21 drafts have been examined by the Riksdag. Only in one case did it lead to a reasoned opinion from the Riksdag. Overall in the EU, eight reasoned opinions were received, i.e. a clear reduction, at least in number, compared with the previous year. In percentage terms, there has been a slight increase. But there is clearly a positive development. The second observation concerns the process itself in the management of the subsidiarity tests. For example, the Committee on Taxation has stated in its opinion that there is a need to review the time frame for the subsidiarity tests. It states that there are situations where negotiations have already begun before the deadline for subsidiarity reviews has expired. As far as the tax committee is concerned, this has been brought up to date on one occasion during the year in question. That is to say, an agreement was reached in the Council before the national deadline had expired. Of course, this is not a satisfactory situation. We share the opinion of the Committee on Taxation that there is a risk that the subsidiarity tests will lose their significance if the rules are not properly applied. It is also something we have pointed out in previous years that the eight-week deadline must be maintained and properly applied. Another part of the process that is problematic, as was the case with Emanuel Öz, is the justification. It is important that the Commission correctly implements the acquis, which is contained in Protocol No 2, namely that it should properly justify the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, not just make a brief recital, but actually do so, as the Protocol states, as a separate heading. It should be clear what this is all about. Here we can see that in 5 out of 21 draft legislative acts this is missing or, in any case, is flawed. That is something that the committee attaches importance to and stresses must be improved and changed. The third and final observation is that contacts with other national parliaments and information must be improved. As far as contacts with other national parliaments within the EU are concerned, we have noted in the past that this happens quite rarely. On the other hand, as Emanuel Öz mentioned, there is contact with Parliament's representative at the EU institutions, thereby helping to maintain information contacts with other parliaments. Our representative of the European institutions is constantly in contact with his counterparts from other national parliaments. There is an indirect exchange of views. However, with regard to the direct exchange of information with other national parliaments, little remains to be done. There is a clear potential for improvement. Another point concerns the IPEX database. After looking at the opinions received, the committee considers that it is still not good enough. It is about language difficulties and shortcomings in the information stored there. We maintain what we have been saying for several years: IPEX must be developed and improved in terms of accessibility, and it must be more manageable so that it fulfils its purpose. I will not repeat what the previous speaker has said more than that.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-864	Mr President, I would like to I do not have a reservation or any other motion, but I would like to thank most of all the other members of the committee and the cabinet for the fact that we have jointly managed to produce the best possible report in which we adequately compile and provide information on many of the shortcomings and shortcomings of the European Union's work. In particular, I appreciate the sensitivity and positive attitude of the other members of the committee to a number of the developing improvement proposals that we have put forward in order to make follow-up even better. We are therefore now also asking the other committees to give their opinion on matters such as the situation of majority voting within the respective committees when it has examined whether or not the various EU proposals can be regarded as complying with the principle of subsidiarity. We have also paid particular attention to the possibilities that EU law allows to assess, in the context of this review, whether the proposals can be considered proportionate or not. Similarly, we have opened up a more learning process in which the other committees are invited to make their own suggestions on how to further improve follow-up. In order for these additional opportunities and improvements to be fully realised, it is essential that the other committees take the opportunity to actually give their opinion. For my part, I have asked the members of our parliamentary group to pursue this issue persistently within their various committees. I also hope and believe that the representatives of the other parties here today will do the same in their parliamentary groups. In this way, we can obtain even more complete material in the future and hopefully safeguard our democratic principles and our national self-determination even better – something I think most of us are concerned about. However, I cannot help but marvel at Sweden's seemingly somewhat ambivalent attitude towards the EU. It hardly comes as a major surprise to any of us that Sweden is one of the largest net contributors to this monstrous experiment with federalist ambitions. At the same time, we therefore welcome the fact that the Commission is making fewer and fewer proposals, and some even regret the fact that the UK voted in favour of Brexit and justifies it by the fact that Britain was one of our main allies against the European Union. Thus, each year we seem to plow down so much $30 billion into something that we would like to have as little to do with as possible. Money that would be sufficient, for example, to employ more than 50 000 new teachers in the Swedish school is now instead going to French farmers, infrastructure in Poland, useless projects in Romania and various rescue operations after decades of southern European overbounding policy. Through the European Union, we are even giving money to Erdo中an's Turkey to send migrants to Europe. For me, this development policy is more similar than anything else, so perhaps soon it is time to review whether we cannot make a DAC count against the aid framework for at least parts of the EU levy.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-877	Mr President, I would like to In 1809 King Gustav IV Adolf was deposed by a bloodless coup d'état. It can be said to have marked the start of a development towards democracy in Sweden, a democracy in which the government and public administration are under clear control. This control is aimed at combating abuse of power and arbitrariness and promoting transparency, good governance and good governance. After the coup d'état, the form of government of 1809 was drawn up. Two innovations in this form of government were the Ombudsman for Justice, the JO, and the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee, the KU. The KU was given the task of examining that the government and its ministers comply with laws and other rules, while the JO was given corresponding assignments in relation to the state administration and eventually also the municipal administration. Since then, for more than 200 years, the Constitutional Committee has been examining various aspects of how government power is exercised. The review has been carried out in different ways over the years, but since the 1990s it is common practice that the KU submits two review reports each year to the Riksdag, one for the so-called autumn review and one for the spring review. What we are now debating is the report on the autumn review in autumn 2016. What the KU is mainly associated with is probably the spring review, which is based on an examination of individual ministers based on notifications from the members of the Riksdag. However, the KU and its office put so much effort into the autumn review. I would like to extend my warm thanks to the members of the committee for their good cooperation in this examination, and also to the officials of the KU Office, headed by Head of Office Peder Nielsen, for their hard and skilful work in auditing. Every year, the autumn review revolves around half a dozen subjects selected by the KU on its own initiative. It is about studying and following up work processes within the government and in the Government Office. As in the spring review, the focus is not on deciding whether a minister deserves criticism or not, but on analysing whether different types of case are dealt with satisfactorily from a constitutional point of view and making recommendations for the future so that government work can develop. I would like to give a brief account of the subjects covered by the current review and the conclusions reached by the KU. Under the heading The composition of the Government and the organisation of government work, the Committee has continued to monitor the evolution of the number of officials in the Government Office. The review shows that the number has increased from 4,537 in 2015 to 4,642 in 2016. The number of employees can sound high but includes all employees at Sweden's diplomatic missions around the world and also everyone who works in the state investigation service. Sweden has seen a small government office internationally. Furthermore, the committee has reviewed government protocols from 2015, including the sub-protocols from the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Ministry of Defence. This is a review that dates back to 1809. Then, 200 years ago, the members of the committee personally read the government's minutes. The formal examination of the minutes is now being carried out by officials of the committee's private office. At each autumn review, the KU usually reviews the government's handling of a certain group of administrative matters. Although many administrative cases over the last 20 years have been brought from the government to authorities or courts, around 5,000 cases are still settled each year by the government, and a great deal of them are administrative cases. The review has this time referred to appeals against decisions to extend or suspend shore protection. The committee notes that, in several cases, the duration of proceedings is long, and there are long periods of time without the identification of any procedural measures. In the committee's view, in particular, it is important to keep the duration of proceedings as short as possible, since the proceedings have already been ongoing for a long time in various other bodies. The committee stresses the importance of a good staffing in the Government Office and believes that staff shortages cannot be blamed for explaining long processing times. We also point to the importance of an efficient and efficient organisation and believe that there is reason to consider whether the current working methods should be reviewed in order to create the conditions for faster management. The committee has also examined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' handling of matters relating to children in international relations. This review Annicka Engblom will comment on behalf of the Moderates, so I will say no more about this right now. In another examination, the committee examined the parliamentary element of the investigation. It will be dealt with by my party friend, Maria Abrahamsson, so I refer to her speech. In addition, the committee has examined the proportionality assessment in the event of restrictions on municipal selfgovernment. The background is the constitutional amendment which entered into force in 2011 and which provides that a restriction in the municipal self-government should not go beyond what is necessary in view of the purposes of the restriction. All proposals from 2011 onwards have been reviewed. The committee notes that, in the vast majority of legislative matters concerning municipalities, a proportionality assessment has been carried out, which is set out in the bill. In some cases, the proportionality assessment is less clear or lacking. The committee points out that various circumstances highlighted by the government as a reason for not making a proportionality assessment are not in itself a basis for waiving a proportionality test. This may involve a legislative proposal meeting municipalities and county councils as part of a collective where there are also other bodies or companies, other employers. This may involve legislative proposals relating to the implementation of EU law, which have been made upon application from the relevant county councils, extending an existing obligation or including authorisations for the government to issue regulations concerning the municipalities. We do not mean that this in itself precludes the need for a proportionality assessment. If an examination is deemed manifestly unnecessary or for any other reason not possible, the reasons for this should be clearly stated in the proposal. The committee also stresses how important it is that the possibility of taking less action than those proposed should be examined as part of the proportionality test and that those considerations should be set out in the proposal. The committee calls for measures to be taken to ensure more systematic and consistent application of the proportionality test requirement and for greater clarity and consistency in the presentation of the proportionality tests. Finally, the committee has examined the governance of certain authorities under the Ministry of Industry, including two businesses. The government dialogue is an important ongoing and structured element in the relationship between the government and its authorities, but the documentation of it is, as far as is clear from the review, only an agenda, which impairs the ability to follow up the outcome of the meetings. The committee inculcates the importance of documentation as regards the content of the government dialogue. Better documentation improves the possibilities for those involved to follow up the meeting. The conditions for KU's review will then be better. In addition, the committee makes certain statements on economic governance. The approval by the Riksdag of an investment plan for the investments of businesses does not in itself mean that the Riksdag recognises that a financial commitment for the state may be made. As regards the regulatory letters, the committee states that the decision of the Parliament means that the appropriations are made available to the government, not the authorities. These are some of the points we make. As can be seen from the accounts I have now made, the KU has carried out a thorough review of a number of important aspects of government work and has made statements and recommendations of various kinds with the basic aim of constantly improving government work. Transparency and control of government power and the work of the government are an important element of a living democracy. Thus the KU keeps the legacy of 1809 alive even after two centuries. With this, Mr President, the Constitutional Committee will report to Parliament the results of the examination set out in this report.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-904	Mr President, I would like to In the so-called autumn review, the KU has made some observations that can help to make public Sweden a little better. The exercise of public power in a way that is compatible with existing laws and rules, while being effective and transparent, is important for citizens to have confidence in democratic governance. In its position, the KU wishes to stress the importance of timely publication of constitutions so that time is available to adapt to new rules. Laws are not respected if they are announced but in fact cannot be complied with. Therefore, announcements need to be made in good faith before they enter into force. Another point we point out is the long processing times that exist in certain administrative cases at the Government Office. The staff situation is often referred to. It is not a satisfactory system for cases to be settled due to maternity leave or other reasons. It must be arranged so that reasonable processing times can be followed. The government is preparing a new administrative law that comes into existence after a 2005 announcement by the then opposition parties, the bourgeois parties and the Environmental Party, together. Then there was an investigation that was completed in 2010, but it probably ended up in some drawer and became lying throughout the last term of office. It has now been found in the drawer, and there will be a bill in the spring. There, the proposal for a new administrative law will tighten up to deal with some obvious problems. One particular problem that the KU has examined this year is how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has handled matters about Swedish children who have been cared for by foreign social authorities. It can be said that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and its organisation are not there to act more like social authorities in Sweden. This type of honour is not exactly used to it, and it has led in some cases to a failure to deal with it satisfactorily. There is reason to consider what measures are needed to improve the handling of these cases. The KU has also looked at the parliamentary element of the investigations and how it has developed. We note that in many cases the need for comprehensiveness and efficiency is best met by conducting parliamentary investigations where policies and different political directions can influence the investigation work. The number of parliamentary investigations has varied considerably during the investigation period. It seems that minority governments often set up parliamentary investigations, and perhaps this is done to allow sufficient parliamentary support for legislation. One trend that can be seen is that the number of purely parliamentary investigations is decreasing, while the number of investigations with other types of parliamentary consultation is increasing. However, it can be said that if the purpose of an investigation is to establish a broad political basis for legislation, a parliamentary inquiry may be preferable. It creates the possibility of compromises and consensus, which is of course particularly important on certain issues. Other forms may be preferable if we are dealing with more limited investigations or on issues where perhaps the most important thing is that the opposition is informed about the process that is going on. It is therefore important which form of investigation is chosen, and regardless of which form you choose, it is important that different opinions that have emerged during the investigation work appear when the investigation is presented. According to a constitutional amendment that entered into force in 2011, a proportionality assessment must be made when the municipal self-government is limited. Essentially, this has worked well, but there are some deviations. They can be explained mainly for three reasons. The first is that municipalities and county councils are included among many other bodies that are affected. The second is that it can be about the implementation of EU rules in Swedish legislation. The third is what can be seen as a codification of existing practices. What the KU notes is that these are no reasons to refrain from carrying out a proportionality assessment. If an exception is made, it must be made clear, and for what reasons. Protecting the municipal self-government is an important part of Swedish democracy that I think many people are afraid of. The committee's review of the governance of certain authorities under the Ministry of Industry is partly prompted by observations made during previous reviews. This applies, for example, to how the Swedish Maritime Administration could buy helicopters for up to SEK 1 billion without a parliamentary decision for this major investment. Our investigation shows that there is no documentation of the communication that takes place between the works and the Government Office. In the absence of this documentation, there is also no possibility of the kind of accountability required in the form of government. Therefore, we in Parliament must demand that the dialogue with the authorities be properly documented. Finally, as a homage to my group leader Björn von Sydow, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the committee also says that it is of great importance to take responsibility for the long term for the important cultural historical collections in the field of transport, and particularly in the rail sector, of course.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-918	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking my committee colleagues and also the Office for a well-functioning work that we have spent a lot of time and energy on. I would now like to ask the committee and the other Members of this House to recall their mathematics skills, because I intend to juggle a little bit with figures.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-920	We move forward a few years, until 2007. At that time the corresponding figure was down in 2.44 cases per employee per year. In September 2015, 2 975 were in office in the Government Office if committee and foreign staff were excluded. At the same time, we can note that the government decided in 2015 5 007 government matters. This means that the figure is down to 1.68 cases per year and employed. So what do I want to say about this little math problem? Well, Mr President, the number of employees at the Government Office has almost doubled since 1990, while the number of government affairs has decreased by 75% over the same period. Which other workplaces in Sweden could be described in this way? In round rolls, each decided government matter costs approximately SEK 1.3 million. It should also be taken into account that the largest case group is new jobs to the Government Office. Mr President, I would like to Never before have so many done as little as they do right now in the Government Office. Speaking of this, I would now like to turn to another point that we have raised in this report, namely the parliamentary element of the investigation. A good order is, of course, that an issue is first investigated and referred to and then become a concrete legislative proposal. Nowadays, Mr President, it seems to be a bit the opposite. A minister of state orders an investigation that aims to present exactly the proposal the minister wants, and at the end of the day the government has an investigation that fits their political ideas such as the hand in the glove. Of course, this should not be the case. The investigation system is correctly used an excellent instrument in the Swedish administrative tradition. Wrongly used, it will be a waste of time and resources. In addition, I think it risks undermining the importance of the quality label that the committee stamp is supposed to be. The committee has identified two types of investigation with parliamentary elements: parliamentary committees and parliamentary consultations, which may be slightly different. There may be various reasons for the choice of investigative form with parliamentary elements. The Government Office believes that each situation is unique. Of course, I do not dispute this, but at the same time it makes sense if similar issues are also dealt with fairly equally. It is good for democratic legitimacy and for obtaining a good end product. The committee has found that if one of the main objectives of an investigative mission is to have a broad political base, a parliamentary committee may be preferable. Such an investigation gives us, as opposition parties, the opportunity to get into the reform process as early as possible, and offers opportunities for compromises and consensus on political issues. It is important that the investigation is not given in advance so that the opposition is held hostage but that the government, through the current minister, really listens to what the opposition has to say. As regards investigations involving parliamentary reference groups or other forms of parliamentary consultation, the review shows that the comitology directives generally lack detailed information on the nature of the parliamentary element and the format of the consultation itself. Nor does it specify how the outcome of the parliamentary consultation is to be dealt with and how it is to be presented. The review that has been carried out by us in committee also shows that the accounts of the consultations that have taken place vary widely in the various reports. In order to overcome what I have said and to maintain public confidence in the state apparatus, transparency and parliamentary aspects of investigations should be strengthened and improved. It benefits all parties. A review of the criteria for accounting in the committee report is currently under way. The committee states, and I share this view, that the presentation of the parliamentary element of an investigation should also be included. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to inform you that the committee has also reviewed how the government has taken account of the municipal self-government in the preparation of its legislative proposals. In brief, the committee notes, which is a view that I and the Swedish Democrats share, that there are shortcomings and ambiguities on the part of the government here too. When the KU now submits this unanimous report, we therefore expect the government to take on board the points we have now made. Therefore, Mr President, as a final part of this speech, and even if Christmas is now over, let me send a little wish list to the Government Office and to the Prime Minister on the basis of what I have just said. The wish list has the following points: firstly, I think it is important for the government to be able to regain control of its own government office. Of course, the trend that more and more employees are making less and less must be reversed. Secondly, the government must respect the investigative system. When the government appoints new investigations, it should not try to steer the investigation by, for example, appointing investigators solely on the basis of which party book they have. This applies, of course, not only to investigations but also to other appointments for which the government is responsible. Last but not least on my wish list is the point that the government must put an end to the municipal self-government. Moving power up as the government has been happy to do in relation to, for example, the EU has hit this country sufficiently. The right of municipalities, county councils and regions to a high degree of self-determination must be respected rather than restricted.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-937	Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee's examination of the government's administration does not lead to any more serious or in-depth criticism, but, as with all other activities, the work of the government can of course be improved and strengthened. The committee therefore has a number of comments and observations. In my speech, I would like to concentrate on four areas. These are long processing times in beach protection matters, the parliamentary element in investigations, municipal self-government and the documentation of the government's government's official dialogue. I'll start with long processing times for beach protection cases. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs notes that these are unacceptably long processing times. They are often over a year, and in some cases even over two years. This is not a new situation. It's looked like that before, too. The government replies that it is difficult to predict working hours due to the amount of cases and the complexity of the different appeal proceedings. However, since this has been a problem for a long time, we can see that it is not a matter of individual peaks but that the department is systematically understaffed. It is therefore gratifying that the department answers that it sees the need to strengthen the unit in the future. Of course, the Government Office should not grow uninhibited, if I may go back to the interventions of the Social Democrats here earlier, but a department should not be understaffed in relation to the work it has to do. I would like to completely reject the mathematics that the Swedish Democrats are putting forward here. Counting on the number of cases closed per official is not relevant unless you look at the complexity and extent of the cases at the same time. So that math is false. As regards the parliamentary element of investigations, we note that over time there has been a shift from parliamentary committees to an increased element of sole investigators with parliamentary reference groups. On the basis of these developments, the Committee Regulation should be revised and supplemented. Last year, in 2016, I myself had the privilege of being part of both a parliamentary committee, the Media Basic Law Committee, and a parliamentary reference group to the Media Investigation. I can see that the working methods differ as night and day. In the Media Basic Law Committee, I felt that all parties contributed very constructively to finding solutions to difficult legal issues. And the work has resulted in what I think is an opportunity for the government to return with a bill that is well anchored in the Riksdag, where we can ultimately get a broad parliamentary majority. My picture with regard to the parliamentary reference group to the Media Investigation is that most parties did not participate to contribute proposals on how to solve the issues of the investigation, but they participated more in order to obtain information. It is rather telling that in the end we were only two members of the reference group who participated in the evaluation of the work that was done. It is quite clear that parliamentary committees are preferable if the government's aim is to ensure at an early stage that it has broad parliamentary support for proposals. If parliamentary reference groups are to be used, it should be made clear what responsibility and mandate the reference groups actually have. As far as the documentation of the government dialogues is concerned, I do not need to be very slow. The committee notes that the only documents available are meeting agendas. Several authorities at the same time want some kind of memorial note, so that it will be easier to follow up and evaluate the government dialogues. If the Constitutional Committee is to be able to carry out its review, it is also necessary for the documentation to be more complete. Finally, it concerns local self-government. There are probably many of us in this House who have experience of municipal work, and perhaps in that role we have been critical of or questioned when parliament and government have in various ways curtailed municipal self-government, albeit with good intentions. Therefore, when the governance form was corrected in 2011, a so-called proportionality principle was introduced. Any restriction of municipal self-government should be justified on the basis of what one wants to achieve in the end. In the preparatory work for the law, it was also said that in each proposal a description should be made of how a matter affects municipal self-government. In the committee's scrutiny, we can see that this is done in the vast majority of cases. Of 83 proposals dealing in different ways with municipal issues, such a proportionality assessment has been carried out in the vast majority of cases. However, 18 proposals lack a corresponding assessment. It may be that the government has nevertheless made a test and found that a proposal has little impact on municipal self-government. In that case, however, it should be made clear in the bill. The committee is of the opinion that the government must take steps to ensure systematic and consistent application of proportionality tests.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-951	Mr President, I would like to I am not really surprised that Niclas Malmberg has objections to my way of counting. He belongs to one of the government parties that has advocated that the Government Office should receive an ever-increasing grant. After Mr Niclas' reasoning, however, I would like to question what he means when he says that it is unfair to count that way. In the report we can both read how we are discussing what kind of cases the Government Office is dealing with today. It is a declining graph for the number of constitutional cases, while the number of employment cases has increased. There are certainly different types of complexity. In the past, however, more than 20 000 government affairs were dealt with, which far fewer employees were able to cope with. I find it hard to see that the complexity would be so much greater today. But Niclas is welcome to discuss it.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-954	Mr President, I would like to First of all, the starting point for Sweden's democrats' criticism is wrong. If we look at developments over time, we can see that the number of officials at the Government Office was at its highest, 4,885, 2009. After that, there has been a declining trend. In 2016, the number was 4,642. So it is not the case that the current red-green government is expanding. On the contrary, we have a slightly smaller government office than before. But looking back in time, if we compare with 1990, there are considerably more people working at the Government Office now. However, my criticism of what the Swedish Democrats are saying here is not linked to the figures in the first place, but to the fact that they do not analyse the underlying material that exists. Nothing in the speech by the Swedish Democrats indicates that the cases would be simpler now or even equal. We can see that many of the cases handled within the Government Office are far more complicated now than some of those dealt with earlier. The government carried out more simple administrative measures in the early 1990s.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-957	Mr President, I would like to That is in principle what Mr Niclas said in his speech as well. He said we don't know what the cases were like, that the cases can be more complex today than before. I'm asking you to do what you have to do for it. In any case, in the report that exists, I find nothing that would strengthen that thesis at all. Rather, we can say that the largest group of dossiers is about hiring new people to the Government Office. It cannot reasonably be such a complex matter that far more people are needed for it. It is also noted that constitutional matters, which should perhaps be more complex, are a narrowing group of cases. You are welcome to develop your reasoning, Niclas Malmberg, and respond clearly to what you have in order to claim that the cases today are so much more complex that so many more people are needed when they take care of so many fewer cases.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-959	Mr President, I would like to There have, of course, been a number of complex dossiers even during previous terms of office. If we compare the 90s with now we can see that there were many complex cases then too. However, based on the number of cases dealt with at the time, there was probably also a wide range of cases that were of a simpler administrative nature. On the other hand, hiring someone is not a simple matter. It's not something you can do lightly. It requires great care so that you get the right people with the right skills. It would be desirable for the Swedish Democrats as a party to strive to be more careful when hiring people for their own cabinet. We have all read about the people who have been present at the Swedish Democrats' Party Office and who have a strong connection with Russian propaganda. We might not have done that if you were more serious in your employment procedures.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-962	Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee has chosen to review in autumn 2016 how the Government has handled matters in seven areas. This has been the case for:
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-965	A great deal of this has, of course, already been mentioned in the debate. Our KU-kansli has found some interesting things in these areas that I would like to highlight. This applies, among other things, to the debate that was just taking place on government matters. The total number of government cases decreased by 276. The biggest decrease was in the number of constitutions. The number of employment cases increased most. In 2016, the number of employees at the Government Office increased by 92 compared to the previous year. However, comparing the weight of a case is difficult. If you see the budget bill for the whole country as a matter and compare it with an employment case, the employment case in that respect is, of course, a fairly simple matter. As usual, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs highlights the importance of making laws public in good time before they come into force. We stress in the review that the length of proceedings by the authorities, particularly in the case of appeals, is too often excessive. In particular, KU-kansliet has examined the handling of complaints concerning beach protection. The KU stresses that the long processing times often create duplication of work within the authorities, but that it is of course the individuals who are most affected by long processing times. It is often a question of economic and personal relationships of great importance to those who have appealed. I myself have also exercised to Parliament about the long processing times and really hope that in connection with the introduction of the new Administrative Act there will be an improvement. As a result of the examination of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' matters regarding children in international relations, the KU also highlights the importance of rapid handling. Rapid handling is crucial for the success of cases where children have been taken abroad by one of the parents. We in the KU stress that in cases where Swedish children have been taken care of by social authorities in other countries, it is important to ensure that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs provides consular support in other countries. With regard to the parliamentary element of government investigations, the KU wants to be better informed about who is involved in the investigation work and how the reference persons have participated in the investigation work. Not infrequently, participating politicians now feel hostage in investigations where they have not been able to influence the proposals of the investigations. The media investigation presented a while ago is, like me. sees it, such an investigation. That investigation would have benefited from being a parliamentary inquiry instead of a one-man investigation with a parliamentary reference group. The Constitutional Committee has found that in the vast majority of legislative matters concerning municipalities, proportionality assessments have been made and reported. In particular, however, we point out that the laws brought about by the requirement for proportionality assessment should also be submitted to the Legislative Council for review. It hasn't worked very well so far. With regard to the spring review that we carried out last year, the KU gained experience of shortcomings in the governance of the Swedish Maritime Administration in particular. Based on this, KU has now reviewed the governance of the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration, the Swedish Maritime Administration, the Swedish Transport Administration and the Swedish Transport Agency. The KU calls for better documentation of the government dialogue and highlights that Parliament's budget decisions make funds available to the government, but it is only through the government's regulatory letter that the authorities have access to funds for their investments. Mr President, I would like to KU's autumn review of mainly government administrative procedures can hardly be regarded as having led to serious criticism. But there is a great deal that the government and its authorities can do better and that we have paid attention to in our review.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-976	Mr President, I would like to My colleagues have already well explained the matter in a very educational way, but there are not too many issues that I have particularly noticed during this year's autumn review. For citizens, there is probably nothing to create such irritation and mistrust as slow or impenetrable case management. We have built society to a large extent on trust and understanding of how matters are handled by our authorities. This should be done promptly, transparently and legally. In this year's review of administrative matters, the KU reviews cases concerning appeals against various decisions to extend or suspend beach protection in which the Government made a decision in 2015. And, unfortunately, this year's audits of administrative matters also leave a great deal to be desired. This applies in principle to the same things that the committee has stated in the past. The processing times are too long, the decisions are too complicated to understand, sometimes because of the way the matter has been handled and sometimes because the language has been designed so that it might just as well have been in Greek. In fact, in many cases it would have been easier if it had been in Greek for us to try to get through this mass of texts. All in all, this naturally leads to a constant build-up of the case balance with appeals. As early as in the 2014 review, the committee noted that the Environmental Assessment Unit did not function optimally. The Government Office highlighted a strained work situation for employees as an explanation of long processing times. It is therefore worth pointing out once again that it is not acceptable that the handling of various cases involving the exercise of authority against individuals is delayed because the staffing situation is not satisfactory. Indeed, the department states that the unit has been strengthened by a fixed-term employment in 2016, and the need for further employment is seen in the future. Nevertheless, I think it is appropriate to emphasise – as the committee also very clearly states – the importance of keeping processing times as short as possible, since long processing times are hard on individuals and municipalities. Mr President, I would like to From beach protection, I move to abducted children – the committee deals with many and broad issues. Within the framework of the review, the committee has examined acts concerning issues relating to children with Swedish habitual residence who have been unlawfully removed or detained in another country and cases where Swedish children have been taken care of by the social authorities of another country. Child affairs is a matter that concerns most of us in particular. Only the idea of being separated from one's child is intolerable – by whom or for what reasons can it really be set aside for the person affected – but it becomes particularly difficult enough if you do not feel that you get the support that you are entitled to and that the case is not properly and completely dealt with by the authorities that we have learned to trust when there is a crisis. It is part of the so-called community contract that we have all signed. Of course, each case is unique and therefore extra complicated, and in cases involving children unlawfully removed or detained in another country, one must be aware that in cases covered by a convention or regulation, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs does not own the process itself, and that even in cases where neither a convention nor regulation is applicable, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has limited possibilities to provide assistance and let alone to run the process. This is where national legislation and the other country's legal process prevail. Nevertheless, I would like to stress the importance that the committee here stresses the importance of the Ministry doing its utmost, within a given framework, to ensure that matters are dealt with as quickly and effectively as possible and that the possibility of using diplomatic means of contact is also considered. In short, we must use all possible legal means to unite parents and children. In the committee's view, delays in dealing with cases relating to the exercise of authority against individuals or omissions resulting from the staff situation are not acceptable, as we have pointed out before, and especially in cases such as these, I would like to point out. The committee notes that the Ministry intends to develop a guide to clarify procedures. The answer also shows that the development of new procedures is a priority, although there is no fixed timetable – something that I find regrettable. Nothing is as effective as getting a job as a project plan with a deadline. Mr President, I would like to Just because I have not raised the question of the composition of the government, the importance of the entry into force of constitutions, the importance of the parliamentary element of the investigative system, the proportionality assessment of restrictions on the municipal self-government, and so on, does not mean in any way that I do not understand the importance of the scrutiny and statements made by the committee. I would just like to say that my colleagues have already raised the issues with credit and that I therefore agree with them as well as with the committee's autumn notification in 2016.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-988	Mr President, I would like to Just as the chairman of the committee opened this debate, we have two main reviews. We in the Constitutional Committee usually go around and meet various organisations and representatives and present our committee work. It is then, above all, the spring review and the hearing of the government that we are best known for. Less well known is the autumn review whose results we now have to debate. This is of a more administrative nature. Not for nothing are our downfalls in the decision-making processes that the government makes of it and which we are examining extremely important. Because when it doesn't work, it's individuals who get caught. This is we set to review and so to speak remove from the desktop. This is particularly true when it comes to our smallest citizens, our children, getting caught. For them, we have a particular responsibility. The fact that a relationship is breaking is a tragedy in itself, Mr President. When there are children in the picture it complicates the whole thing further, and of course also for the children. Furthermore, when children are refused to meet one guardian in various ways, perhaps because the mother or father removes the children from the country, we have a special responsibility. This is an international problem with the involvement of several countries. Therefore, a number of international conventions have been concluded, and they have been signed and implemented by Sweden in its own law. This mainly concerns the 1980 and 1996 Hague Conventions, which include ensuring the rapid return of one or more irregularly abducted children. It is about protecting the right to custody and access for both parents, and it should also be seen from a child's perspective. In addition, we EU Member States have a Brussels II regulation to deal with. Fundamental to all states around the world is the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which Sweden has also ratified. In addition, in the administrative processes involved here, we have a national administrative law with objectivity and prompt management to consider. So there is a large regulatory framework around. Each country that has signed and adopted the Hague Convention has appointed a central authority to deal with all the contacts needed for the illicit abduction of children. In Sweden, this is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mr President, I would like to It is, among other things, the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' processes that in our review we have done a deep dive in this autumn. This covers the period January to June 2016, and concerns the open cases that exist, namely 24. The cases are, as I said, unlawfully abducted or detained children or children who are domiciled in Sweden but who have been taken care of by social authorities abroad. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs has something called the Consular Unit and the Civil Justice Group, KC-C, and this unit has the main responsibility for this. These administrators have a delicate task to deal with, given that in principle each case is unique, although certain procedures should obviously be common to them. However, the nature of the cases differs, and this places great demands on the administrators as well as on their flexibility. I would like to thank the officials working in this unit from here, because I understand that they have a heavy workload. A key factor in dealing with abducted children is the time factor. Urgency in these cases is not only an important human factor but also crucial for their management. In fact, under the Hague Convention, if a case has been going on for more than a year, it can be refused a return in view of the fact that the child has taken root in his new environment. When we have looked at these matters, we have seen that they range from 14 days to many years in many cases. This is obviously unmanageable. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs' own brochure for parents whose children have been abducted underlines the time factor. It is important that the officials of the unit also have the opportunity to carry out their work in their working environment. There is therefore a great responsibility for the senior managers, and ultimately responsible is Minister Wallström. Some of the notes that we in the Constitutional Committee have made relate, for example, to the closure of the dossier. There have been times when a matter has been closed without ensuring that the parents are aware of it. It may be due to different reasons. They may not have been obtained, but then you should exhaust all the means at your disposal. Just as Tina Acketoft from the Liberals previously highlighted, we also wonder why embassies and consulates are not used to a greater extent. We have also highlighted matters that end up between the chairs. The answers we have received state that the unit has at times had a high workload, that cases have been transferred to a new administrator and that there have been sick leave. All this is in the KU:s not acceptable. One must definitely ensure that there is a work situation that prevents matters from falling between the chairs. Because of such factors, it should not be so long as it has an actual impact on the case itself. In the end, this can even lead to a return being made to the parent who has custody because of the conventions that we have concluded. In short, I would like to agree with Tina Acketoft on this matter. I am satisfied with this and hope that we can also follow up on the fact that we really take on board the notes that we in the KU have made. It concerns the children, our little ones, who are our most vulnerable citizens. I do not think anyone in this House has any difficulty in understanding what it would feel like if you were in this situation yourself.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-1002	Mr President, I would like to I intend to devote my time to talking about the government's handling of certain administrative matters, where we have examined appeals to the government in various beach protection matters. Some of the previous speakers have briefly touched on this question. I agree with what they have said. This is a serious issue that deserves to be repeated, and I was going to do a little deep dive into it. In our review, we have focused on four different aspects of processing times. We have looked at the total duration of proceedings, at the various stages in which the proceedings appear to have stopped, at the time between the final exchange of letters and the decision of the Government and the time between the lodging of appeals and the fact that the parties have been asked to complete the appeals. Some speakers have already mentioned the time required, but I would like to give some examples. We note that in most cases the total duration of proceedings has been between six and twelve months. However, there are also cases which exceed one year, which is a cause for concern from the point of view of legal certainty. The report also contains examples of cases that have been going on for two years and even for two and a half years. A few of the cases examined appear to have been pending for a relatively long time at different stages of the proceedings before taking action and taking decisions. In one case, it appears that the administrator at the Ministry about nine months after the appeal was lodged conducted a discussion with the County Administrative Board to determine how the proposal had been announced. Two weeks after that, the case was decided. This gives us a picture of how long you've let matters lie before you've done anything. It is simply an unreasonable time for action to be taken in these cases. There are, of course, more examples in the report, but I am content with them to highlight the problem of the long duration of proceedings. Mr President, I would like to After all, the government is not an administrative authority in the sense of the Administrative Act. In spite of this, it is considered important that the Government complies with the principles expressed by the Administrative Act, especially in cases where the Government acts as the highest authority in the administrative organisation. The requirements of Section 7 of the Administrative Act are clear: Every case where an individual is a party must be dealt with as quickly, cheaply and easily as possible, without in any way ensuring legal certainty. The issue of rapid administration is of central importance for individuals, but also for the authorities. This has been highlighted in the preparatory work for the Administrative Act but also with us in the KU. If the treatment in many of these cases is delayed, a large balance of cases will easily be created. The authorities will then have to spend a great deal of time answering questions about pending decisions. However, it is the individual who is most affected by the delay in handling the case, as some of the previous speakers have rightly mentioned. To have to go and wait for a long time for an authority decision that may relate to matters that are crucial to a person's financial or personal circumstances can cause insecurity and personal suffering. It may also cause financial losses in some cases. This is therefore not just a service issue, but is also very much about the rule of law of the individual. Mr President, I would like to As has already been pointed out, the KU has stated on several previous occasions in various audits of administrative cases that long processing times are unsatisfactory, and we note that this time too. In its replies to us, the Ministry has blamed, among other things, the high and difficult workload and the complexity and scope of the various cases. Nevertheless, it is not acceptable that such situations arise in the departments, especially when the departments, as I understand it when I read the documents, claim to have prepared themselves with additional staff, among other things. In the light of the current examination, the committee would also like to point out that it is important to know, particularly with regard to appeals, that the length of proceedings should be kept as short as possible because these cases have already been going on for a long time before coming to the government. We note in our review that the Department has said that it is actively working on trying to shorten the times. We think this is a good thing, and we are happy to follow up on what this looks like in the future. But we think it is good that this work is progressing. In addition to the importance of having a good staff situation, we also believe that it is important to recognise that the management of these complex administrative matters requires an efficient and efficient organisation. In the light of that observation, Mr President, there may be reason to consider whether the current working methods should be reviewed in order to create the most efficient and efficient organisation possible and, among other things, create the conditions for simple cases to be quickly closed.
i-ab90c8cdbd2445fd-1015	Mr President, I would like to After all, everything has been said, but not everything has been said by everyone. That is why I wanted to say a few words about the parliamentary element of the investigative system. The committee has noted that during the period studied, the proportion of traditional parliamentary committees has decreased, while it has become comparatively more common with special investigators or committees in whose mandate it has been or is involved in some form of parliamentary consultation. It may not sound so dramatic, but there is actually reason to be observant of this development. It is important to safeguard our proud Swedish tradition with an investigation system that is known and admired throughout the world for a very long time to have delivered solidly threshing and parliamentaryly well-carried investigation reports. It has contributed to the democratisation of the country and has benefited Sweden's competitiveness in relation to the outside world. As KU notes, the state investigation system has been considered to be an element of fundamental value in Swedish administrative tradition. This administrative tradition has, as I said, served Sweden well and will hopefully do so in the future as well. That is why it is a worrying sign when governments, regardless of their colours, reboot our traditional committee system to end up in a one-man investigation, with or without a parliamentary reference group as a sidecar. Of course, as the committee notes, there may also be various explanations for these developments, such as the parliamentary situation that arises when a government does not have its own majority in parliament. Then it may be good for the government to involve the opposition parties in any way, without allowing the investigation to take the form of a full-scale parliamentary committee. Another factor is EU membership. A number of investigations are set up to implement EU law in Sweden, but often there is no need for parliamentary involvement in the investigation phase as the investigation's scope for action is limited – EU law applies in Sweden but is to be implemented. At the same time, the government has already anchored the Swedish position in the EU Board before the EU has made a decision. The parliamentary element comes earlier. There may also be other acceptable reasons why the proportion of expert investigations, with or without parliamentary elements, has increased at the expense of more cumbersome parliamentary committees. However, in view of the fundamental importance of the investigative system, the committee believes that there are still grounds for a number of comments. The committee notes, for example, that if the government wants to ensure that the parliamentary element of an investigation fulfils its purpose, the purpose of the parliamentary element should be carefully considered, and only then should the government decide on the form of investigation. If the aim is for the government to take part in the opposition parties' position on certain proposals, which can be accepted by Parliament by extension, the committee believes that it is typically more appropriate to have a parliamentary committee. It is more appropriate and therefore preferable, as we have heard repeated here. If, instead, it is considered sufficient that some form of parliamentary consultation should be included in an investigation, further consideration should be given to the purpose of the consultation, the modalities of the consultation and, where relevant, the manner in which the results of the consultation are to be presented. The committee points out here that the government can use the committee directives to specify guidelines for the forms of consultation and how the results should be presented. The KU further notes that, in the light of developments, there may be a need to review the provisions of the Comitology Regulation and the Instructions in the Committee Manual. Finally, the committee believes that it must be easy to find information on, for example, a parliamentary reference group is linked to a certain investigation, as well as on the people who sit in the reference group of the various parliamentary parties. Today, the government's committee report does not contain a full account of this kind. This means that there are no pieces of the puzzle for Parliament's review of the government work. And so important: how can voters influence us politicians if they do not find out what tasks we have?
