i-2Y4dY559o94r1JnZswxaq9	Mrs. Old President! Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me whether the government will now act to lift the European Union's ban on sales of snuff in the internal market. I would like to begin by emphasising that Swedish tobacco policy aims to reduce all tobacco use. The target was adopted by the Riksdag in 2011 and has since been set in the Government's revised ANDT strategy for 2016 – 2020. I would also like to emphasise that Sweden supports a public health-based and restrictive tobacco policy in the EU. The adoption of the Tobacco Products Directive was an important step in the EU's tobacco prevention work. The new Tobacco Products Directive means that snus can continue to be sold in Sweden but not in the other Member States. During the negotiations on the new directive, Sweden initially pushed the line that snuff should be sold throughout the EU, including with the argument that snus is less harmful than other tobacco products that are allowed throughout the EU. Sweden's position met with strong opposition from the European Commission and gained little support from the other Member States. This meant that Sweden focused on regulating the content of snus under the new directive as well. In the negotiations, Sweden succeeded in exempting Swedish snus from the provisions of the Directive on content regulation. By promoting the repeal of the directive's ban on the sale of snuff in other Member States, the issue of renegotiating the directive is also raised. A renegotiation always involves risks and could threaten, among other things, the exemptions for snus that Sweden has received in the previous negotiation and that apply on the market today. For these reasons, I am currently not prepared to act in order to repeal the EU ban on sales of snuff in the other Member States. In this context, I would like to point out that the Committee on Economic Affairs has repeatedly stated that the issue of working towards lifting the ban no longer has the same topicality.
i-7Cy6XSoihWWDp8APfNa9Wq	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for that answer. It is true that the Government should not have to run to the Committee on Economic Affairs once more to raise the issue of snuff once again. It is better for the Minister to come to this House and debate with me for 20 minutes so little after lunch than to have to report to the Industry Committee on an early Thursday morning and need to sit there for two hours before the government meeting. Mrs. Old President! Svenskt snus has been under Swedish food law since 1971. This means that Swedish snuff is subject to certain requirements for water quality, cleanliness and limit values for unwanted substances. It is good for the safety of consumers but also for the long-term credibility of the industry. The fairly strong quality awareness of Swedish producers of food and Swedish consumers contributes to Swedish added value, as we have good products to export. Viewed to the Swedish tobacco industry in general, i.e. the whole picture, we are not unique compared to comparable countries. The tobacco industry is about the same. The difference between us and others is that a significant proportion of tobacco use is located in snus and often as an alternative to smoking. It also gives an indication of why Sweden has fewer tobacco-related diseases, which is welcome. A study from Karolinska Institutet published last spring shows, for example, that snuffing does not lead to an increased risk of pancreatic cancer. That's pretty good. If you have to use tobacco, it is good that you do it in Swedish: through snus. Of course, you might think that all tobacco use should go away. There are organizations that want to limit candy and sedentary as well. But I'd say it's the right thing to do. It is good to think about what one consumes, absolutely, but forbids the Riksdag everything that is nice and good but can be harmful becomes after all life on earth unspeakably poor. Mrs. Old President! At the beginning of the summer, 27 June, Minister Ann Linde and Minister Annika Strandhäll received a letter. There, 18 independent scientists asked the government to push for snus to enter the European common market. Professors and researchers from Greece, Australia, the UK, Sweden, Belgium and France – a wide range of titles from different universities. Their clear message was much like mine: Snus leads to fewer tobacco-related diseases and should benefit more. Recognising that this is the case, the abolition of the ban is a harm-reducing and public health-based measure to apply. The Minister has today declared that the government has tried but failed to reach that final step forward. It is good that the Swedish exception continues to exist, but since the issue is current – not least because there are ongoing proceedings in the European Court of Justice concerning this – there is reason to continue to ask the government how you view this and how you act. My follow-up questions to the Government are, firstly, whether the Government is monitoring the process going on in the Court of Justice of the European Union and, secondly, how the Commission – a little more than just saying no – looks at the continued Swedish opt-out. Do you understand, for example, what snus is?
i-579a948e71ee974e-34	Mrs. Old President! In the negotiations on the new Tobacco Products Directive, Sweden pushed the line that snuff should be sold throughout the EU, including with the argument that snus is less harmful than other tobacco products that are allowed throughout the EU. But this attitude met with strong opposition, both from the Commission and from most other Member States. Therefore, Sweden focused on protecting the derogation itself. At the same time, all Swedish tobacco policy aims to reduce the use of all tobacco – including snuff. This goal was adopted by the Riksdag in 2011, and has been set out in the Government's revised ANDT strategy for 2016 – 2020. Then the National Board of Health and Welfare does not recommend snuff as a method of smoking cessation, for example. In the guidelines, the National Board of Health and Welfare notes, among other things, that there is a lack of scientific controls and studies of the effect of snus as a smoking aid.
i-579a948e71ee974e-37	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for the brief but still telling answer. Certainly there can be guidelines and directives, and I am not the one who claims that snuff is a health product. What I think should be stated is that snus is less harmful than smoking. At the overall country level – not necessarily at individual level when talking about smoking cessation – it is clear that more snusping leads to people smoking a little less and therefore fewer tobacco-related diseases. Mrs. Old President! The reason why I am highlighting this issue and want to continue to talk about the European Commission is that it is not quite clear whether the European Union really knows what it is doing in this area. When the Dutch Social-Democrat and Vice-President Frans Timmermans were in Sweden in early May, he met Swedes during a so-called Citizens' Dialogue. He was then asked the question which is really my question: if you see that snus leads to fewer tobacco-related diseases, why is it not allowed throughout the Union? There are permitted tobacco products which are much more dangerous. His answer to that question was simply: I don't know. This leads to the question of whether the Commission is really familiar with what snus means. It is clear that it may be frightening to allow new tobacco products, but the European Commission and the Union as such have to deal with several new tobacco products that are in the pipeline. It's about e-cigarettes and much more. There I sincerely hope that Sweden will contribute with a constructive approach and an evidence-based policy. It is a voice that is really needed in the Union and which I think we should be. If I am going to put a supplementary question to Ann Linde, who is the minister responsible for this, it would be interesting to know whether there is information that the government has not yet communicated to Parliament on the snus issue. Some different proceedings have been going on – in the Court of Justice of the European Union, in the European Commission and in the context of the hearing. Is there information on the snuff on the table today that Parliament does not have, and when do we get the opportunity to raise this issue again? I promise you, I won't put interpellations on the snuff until then.
i-579a948e71ee974e-42	Mrs. Old President! Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, you are welcome to put interpellations! This issue is important, and I think it is good that it is being discussed in this House and that I have the opportunity to talk about why we are reasoning as we do. The question that has always been absolutely most important to me is to protect the snuff in Sweden. I do not want to act in such a way that the exception we actually have is in any way at risk. This means not only that we are allowed to sell and manufacture but also that we are allowed to have snuff with certain flavors and that it should look a certain way and so on. This is the most important thing. Then we tried to get the other countries and the Commission to agree that snuff should be sold in all countries, including the argument that it is better for people to snus than for them to smoke and that it is a barrier to trade. Nor does it make sense that it is only snuff that is banned when many other tobacco products, which can also be more harmful, are allowed. But we did not hear about this, so after a while we changed that argument because it would not go through. Instead, we focused on getting into the directive that we should be allowed to determine the ingredient content of snuff, which was also in question. It was considered a serious threat to the derogation itself if we were not allowed to have the ingredients that we now have. We have a very well developed snus production in Sweden. As regards health risks, we know that nicotine in snus is addictive, and we know that snus can cause permanent damage to the gums and changes to the mucosa of the mouth. However, other health effects are less clearly exposed to snus than to smoking. The only thing the National Board of Health and Welfare has said is that it does not recommend snuff for smoking cessation, which would be logical. As far as the question of other information is concerned, there is no one I know of who is not public or who is with the Riksdag. But now these objectives will come up, and we will follow this very closely to see how the government will act in the future.
i-R2HHm8pT4rLQMnoycdWjpH	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I can add to the benefits of coming to the House instead of to the Committee on Economic Affairs: not so many people who snus may read the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs, but you may have the television on and you may be able to listen to this debate. It is very welcome. Mrs. Old President! Although I and Minister Linde may not be in full agreement, I am grateful that the government has pushed for the Swedish snus in the negotiations. You may not have reached it all the way and did not get everything on the wish list, but it is an important signal from the government that you see the reality of what it is: that snus is less dangerous than cigarettes when you look at the country level. This is a distinction that the former Minister of Health, for example, did not make. I believe, in my role as a Member, that the European Union would be valiant to try snus. That would be good for trade and for public health, and that would be quite good policy. If the government, as the Minister for Rural Affairs and Mikael Damberg have said, is serious about wanting to increase the export of food, which is the umbrella under which snus is regulated, the Moderates will be happy to help in that work. We are friends of the highest degree of free trade, if you put it that way. With this, I thank you for this interpellation debate!
i-579a948e71ee974e-52	Mrs. Old President! I do not think I have a different view from Minister Damberg on this issue. Nor is it forbidden to invite your European friends to snus, if you wish. But it is still the case that Swedish tobacco policy aims to reduce all tobacco use; this has been adopted in this House. At the same time, we also know that snuff is part of Swedish culture. There is no doubt about this. We have therefore tried to influence the EU to open up for snus sales in the internal market. But just admit: we have failed in this. Instead – I repeat – my absolute priority is that nothing should threaten the exception we have in Sweden. We have also seen to this with the ingredients. It is also an important issue, and it was in fact a negotiating success that we succeeded in doing so. I would like to end by paraphrase P ippi Långstrump: without snus for 30 days, we in this country are languishing! I will never act in a way that would jeopardise the Swedish exemption for snuff. With this I would like to thank Jesper Skalberg Karlsson for this interpellation.
i-579a948e71ee974e-57	Mrs. Old President! Mr Rothenberg has asked me whether I believe that the existing export strategy works because exports have decreased in the 26 priority markets. He has also asked what measures I and the Government intend to take in response to the reduction in order to improve Sweden's exports. Sweden's export strategy was decided by the Government in September 2015. It includes 22 efforts to strengthen the internationalisation of Swedish business and involves, in addition to exports, the work of free and fair trade, the promotion of foreign investment and tourism, Sweden's image abroad and the attraction of foreign talents. These include better coordination and pooling of forces within Team Sweden, the establishment of regional export centres, better access to advice and financing for SMEs' exports and much more. The Government allocated SEK 800 million for the implementation of the strategy over five years. The export strategy was developed in dialogue with the Swedish business community. The export strategy mentions a list of 26 countries which are given long-term priority in the government's export promotion. The list was presented six months before the export strategy was decided. The selection of countries was based on their economic size and expected growth by 2020, as well as the existence of political or bureaucratic barriers that increase the need for support from Swedish embassies and ministerial visits. The priority countries are located on all continents, with a certain list of emerging countries in Asia and the Middle East. But also large traditional markets such as the USA, Germany and the UK are included. Almost all of these countries have been visited by a government minister or a State Secretary since 2014, often together with a business delegation. In one of the countries, the Philippines, Sweden has reopened our embassy. In the United States, Sweden has reopened the Consulate General in New York. Mrs. Old President! In the last quarter, exports to these 26 countries have increased by 13 per cent. In the past, however, developments have been more mixed. Some of the countries have suffered a severe fall in the price of oil and other raw materials, reducing their demand for imported goods. In other countries, political changes have affected growth and the willingness of companies to invest in developing their exports. One example is the UK, where Swedish exports have become more expensive because the pound has collapsed since the country decided to leave the EU, while companies feel uncertain about the conditions that will prevail in the future. These are the effects of which our competitor countries' exports have also been affected. Swedish exports are dominated by capital and investment goods that customers do not renew every year, such as machinery, trucks and mobile networks. This makes us more sensitive to cyclical fluctuations than countries whose exports, for example, are dominated by food or medicines. A single large deal can therefore have a strong impact on Sweden's exports to a certain growth market for a single year. Total exports are developing positively. The same applies to the inflow of investment, tourism and almost all the other measures by which we evaluate the export strategy. Implementation of the various actions is continuing and results are continuously monitored. If necessary, there is a readiness to change the priorities. The starting point is that the promotion of exports should be based on what companies are asking for, and therefore dialogue with industry is central. The fact that the world remains open to trade and investment is the basis for our exports. Similarly, we must continue to sharpen our offer to foreign investors and talents so that they want to establish themselves here. Sustainable entrepreneurship is an integral part of export promotion, and is increasingly seen by Swedish companies as a competitive advantage. In the promotion of exports, as in all anna ways, one must dare to give priority. At some stage, there may be a need to review the selection of countries. But priorities should be long-term, and therefore one should not focus too much on cyclical fluctuations, exchange rates and commodity prices.
i-579a948e71ee974e-66	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Trade policy is an area on which we in Sweden tend to have a common line. I often mention this when we debate, and I think it is important to point it out. But when one has a common line and a common vision, that is, an anti-protectionist view and a desire to increase free trade, it can also be easy to settle down. Trade policy has for many years ended up in a bit of backwater. It has not been on the agenda and discussed. I remember standing here four years ago, when Sweden's trade agreement with South Korea was due to be ratified. The President and I were alone in the Chamber. No one was interested in debating. However, I think there are a little different moods with regard to international free trade agreements now. We will probably notice this when the CETA agreement with Canada will be debated later this autumn. Mrs. Old President! Sweden is a small country with 0.06% of the world's population. We need the world, but the world also needs Sweden. Swedish exports have a lot to offer. It has a lot to add to other countries. It is often easy to see that trade and exports bring benefits only to one party. But by spreading knowledge, good products, conscious and quality-bound services, Sweden can help to improve quality in many countries around the world. For a year and a half, Sweden has had an export strategy, the aim of which is to increase exports. However, despite an export strategy with 26 priority markets, Business Sweden's statistics have shown that exports decreased by 2.5 per cent over a year and a half. This is important to discuss. If you have priorities you should put them under the lollipop, and if you put them under the lollipop you should also follow them up. That it has gone down by 2.5% in the case of these 26 countries, we are going to put in relation to exports setting new records. As I said, priorities are good. But it's global factors that matter. The Minister says in his reply that there are factors that have affected the outcome. She mentions Britain. Yes, of course it matters. However, 25 other priority countries remain in the export strategy. The fall in oil prices and other raw materials also plays a role, but this also applies to countries that are not among the 26 priority countries. These are, therefore, external factors that do not specifically land on the 26 countries. The Minister signalled that there would be a readiness to change priorities. I wonder: does the Minister now see any signals that this should be changed after a year and a half? I would also like to ask about the Export Credit Board and Swedish Export Credit, which are two important tools that the government has at its disposal. The Export Credit Board has not received a specific mandate linked to the 26 priority countries. What does the Minister see that these two bodies could do to step up their efforts in the 26 countries? Above all, I would like to have a little more reflection on why exports to these 26 countries have been backsliding at 2.5%.
i-579a948e71ee974e-76	Mrs. Old President! I was very happy about that question. The latest figures show that progress has not been made but has not been reversed. I'm glad to answer that. Let me first comment on this with South Korea. I also find it too sad that there is so little interest in this. After the South Korea agreement, exports from the EU to South Korea increased by 50%. So it's really important. I hope that there will be greater interest when the CETA bill comes to the House later this autumn. In fact, when the government took office after the Alliance had ruled from 2006 to 2014, exports were not the traction locomotive for the Swedish economy that it should be. Increasing Swedish exports is therefore one of the government's focus areas. In my first speech, I outlined the Government's efforts. In the first half of this year, exports of goods increased by 12 per cent compared with the corresponding period last year. So Sweden's exports are now going very well. We also know that exports are linked to Swedish prosperity and to jobs and employment. The calculations show that around 1.4 million people have a job supported by exports at the production level. Then we know that if this gets rings on the water, the figure is much larger. We can see that exports are increasing on almost all fronts. Exports have increased for almost all major commodity groups and almost all service industries. For example, we can see that the export of vehicles has continued at high speed this year, which is obviously strongly linked to Volvo's success. It's really fun. This is a region that Mr Rothenberg knows well. We can also see that exports have increased to almost all regions. It has best gone to Asia, 21 percent increase, and China, 33 percent increase. This is particularly gratifying given our great investment in China and the great Team Sweden trip we made earlier this year. What is particularly gratifying is that we have boosted exports to the emerging markets. Sweden now has a very strong development in the 26 priority countries of state promotion. We can see that we are now at the same pace as other countries in terms of growth, which has not been the case in the last ten years. It is therefore a question of the growth rate of exports. The fact that exports are changing up has contributed to Sweden having actually taken export market shares, as they say, compared to other countries in the world. This can be seen in current prices from 2016 and in constant prices from 2014, when the government took office. This is of course very fun in itself, but it is also relevant within the framework of the government's defined policy. One of the foundations of the government's export strategy was precisely that we must reverse the trend in growth and well-being for jobs. I think I'll stay there. I'll get back to you.
i-579a948e71ee974e-85	Mrs. Old President! It was almost that I wanted to make a smooth transition from the previous interpellation debate – what if the Swedish snuff could help to increase Swedish exports. But I think we'll have to take that at another time. The Minister replies that exports are dominated by capital and investment goods that customers do not renew each year. I believe that it is about 70% that is made up of physical goods and that the rest consists of services. That is something that I think we need to take on board. Trade in services is increasing dramatically in the world. There is a difference between trade in products and trade in services. Inputs in a physical product are sometimes around 30 per cent, but in services there are no inputs. This makes it much higher exchange on services. I think that the government should signal this. I haven't seen any such signals. Do you want to control this and focus more on service exports? That's where we can get an exchange. I have previously had an interpellation debate with Ardalan Shekarabi, when I had intercede with the former Trade Minister, on the export of welfare services. Now we come to the slightly mined issue of welfare services, welfare companies and the opportunity to make a profit. Swedish welfare companies have a good reputation around the world. Swedish welfare business is attractive. There will be delegations from many of the 26 priority countries to Sweden who want to learn how we do to handle childcare and how we do to handle health care in general. They want Swedish companies to be able to establish themselves. But they ask, ‘ Why don't you sell so much at home if you're so good? It's about the importance of having a home market. Welfare services are a very important part that could cause Swedish exports to increase dramatically in order to also respond to the government's export strategy. I came from Brussels yesterday. I have spoken to a number of the Minister's acquaintances, not least Commissioner Malmström, and have received an update on the situation regarding the Brexit negotiations. When things are going badly for the UK and in trade with the UK, and that is one of the 26 countries, I wonder: has the government put in an extra gear to deal with this issue? In Brussels, there is a great deal going on right now. The British are stalling. They're delaying. They do not signal enough activity in the negotiations. If we see that the pound is falling and that there is less impact of it all, the more important it is that Sweden can invest additional resources. I wonder: What additional resources does the government want to see there? We have debated the procurement of export advisory services in a previous interpellation debate. I had the impression that the Minister was in favour of that. I wonder: is this something that could be included, as the government has thought? Is it possible to allocate export advice to other actors than traditional Business Sweden? It is also important that Sweden has a good economic policy climate for companies to stay in Sweden and export to others. It is good if companies stay and do not move to Finland.
i-579a948e71ee974e-92	Mrs. Old President! There were a lot of questions at once. I don't have time to answer them all. But we can start with welfare services. Many of the welfare companies participate in our promotion trips. And, for example, on the educational side and on the health care side, they sell a lot of Swedish welfare services. They are also very pleased with the work that Business Sweden is doing. I think we can develop that area even more. We have started special Team Sweden sub-groups when it comes to export promotion. One of those groups concerns health and life science. Here I would also like to mention another important recipe for success that Sweden has. This is what we call triple h elix, i.e. that we cooperate with private companies, academia and the authorities also in promoting exports. For example, it has been the case that people from other countries have gone back to Sweden after a promotion trip to learn more about this concept. I think we have a way forward here. When it comes to Brexit, the government has made several efforts to analyse the situation and see how we can best support Swedish companies. The last was a government decision taken just about two weeks ago, which was about certifying and accrediting Swedish goods. It turns out that many people need it in order to operate in the internal market. In Sweden we have about 40 points where accreditation and certification can be obtained. Britain has over 180. And they are used very much by the Swedish companies. So, what are we gonna do? Well, the first is that we from the Swedish side should ensure that this issue comes into the negotiations. It is a question of ensuring that the points that exist in the UK, perhaps after an exit from the EU, will apply in any case. At the other end it is about informing Swedish companies about this. I have also started seminars with different sectors to inform them about the situation with regard to Brexit, especially in order to prepare for this. It will affect exports. We saw last year that exports to the UK went down by 16%. Now it seems to go up a little bit, so you shouldn't drag too much gear on this yet. But we are following it very closely because the UK is an important export country for Sweden. Then there is the specific question of SEK, Swedish Export Credit. SEK's annual report takes into account our 26 priority countries. It is a matter of looking at this in particular when it comes to new business. That is something that has been mentioned. EKN is also involved. EKN has been particularly important when it comes to taking part in promotional trips, for EKN can often provide support where it is particularly problematic – for example Iran. SEK cannot take that kind of great risk. I hope that we can develop not least in the areas mentioned by Mr Rothenberg.
i-579a948e71ee974e-99	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I think that this kind of debate is important, partly in order to bring the issue to light, partly in order to see what differences there are in our views and also what we can contribute to. There will be a little bit of public education here, but I actually think we should take on that role. The Minister says that exports in the last quarter have increased by 13 percent. I wrote this interpellation at the beginning of June. Then we had not received the figures for the last quarter, and now we are at the beginning of September, which has to do with administrative procedures during the summer break. However, it was what I compared to one and a half years or five quarters of statistics. Now it was perhaps a trend break in the last quarter of this year, but overall exports have not increased. According to the facts I have received, goods exports increased by 1.1 per cent in 2016. Forgive all the boring figures we throw ourselves in here, but they play a big role for the companies behind the numbers. Goods exports increased by 1.1 per cent. This is slower than the average increase in the period after the 2009-2016 financial crisis, which was 2.6% per year at the time. Promoting well-being – yes, it is good that Swedish welfare companies go to countries on inspirational trips. It is good that they come back from these countries and want to look at them more closely. But it is also good if Swedish companies can sell their services in those countries, that they not only sell the ideas and go home and copy them. I think it's important to deal with that. This is an issue that concerns both exports and how well-being is to be able to work in Sweden in the future. I thank the Minister for the debate. It is important that you are alert and on your toes and monitor the changes that need to be made in the export strategy.
i-579a948e71ee974e-104	Mrs. Old President! I must thank Mr Rothenberg for asking questions and interpellations about trade policy, because, like the honourable Member, I think it is very important. I think that the knowledge of trade policy, including among politicians, is very low, that many different things can be done, so I very much welcome this kind of discussion. The government's policy is both well thought out and long-term. The identified countries are taking a start on where growth will be in the future, and this gives a starting point for the emerging markets in Asia. Where, then, do companies need government support? Often it is in difficult countries. Therefore, there are often discussions when companies travel to difficult countries such as Iran, Saudi Arabia, Russia and so on. When it comes to the numbers, you should sometimes have a bit of luck. The interpellant wrote his interpellation before the new numbers came, and I have the opportunity to respond after the new, very good numbers came. Exports to the 26 priority countries are actually larger today than in 2014. The total Swedish export figures have been followed. All countries around the world had poor development in 2016, but we have taken shares from other countries. Then it is always healthy to be open to change, for example with regard to the priorities of the 26 countries. We will sharpen our operations and improve our policy, and that is because Sweden is so trade-dependent. Since I think it is so important, I repeat that 1.4 million people have their jobs because of exports.
