i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-4	Mr President, I would like to Lars-Arne Staxäng has asked me whether I intend to return to Parliament with some concrete proposals on how to combat crimes against the elderly. The Police Authority is continuously working to develop the law enforcement work. The so-called Circa Group in the Police Region West has a national responsibility to coordinate the police's work against serial crimes directed against the elderly and people with disabilities. The mission includes identifying suspected offenders, initiating coordination of crimes and cases, investigating crimes, providing methodological and operational support to other investigation teams and working crime prevention. In order to streamline the investigation work, the Police Authority has also decided on a national model for crime coordination that has been introduced in 2016. In recent years, the National Fraud Centre of the Police Authority has worked closely with the National Pensioners' Association and the Swedish Pensioners' Association to try to prevent fraud against the elderly. Together, the project has been run Don't try to fool me, to raise awareness among older people about how they can detect and protect themselves from fraud crimes. As far as the previous government's penalty measurement reform is concerned, it was aimed at increasing the penalties for serious violent crimes. In most cases, the reform has had an inadequate impact, and the legislative approach used has been criticised. Therefore, on 22 December 2016, the Government has decided on a Council of Law referral which means that measures are now being taken to ensure that the objective of the 2010 reform is better realised. These measures consist in strengthening the scale of penalties for certain serious violent crimes.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-8	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking you for your reply. There are at least two reasons why I have raised this important issue. The first is that I find it terribly cowardly and ugly to take advantage of the fact that older people often have less sense and the ability to move freely and that muscle strength deteriorates. The fact that there are people then who take advantage of this opportunity to usurp valuables or other hoaxing practices to deceive older people is, I think, absolutely repulsive. The second reason is that I have noticed that it has become increasingly common for older people to suffer precisely this type of crime, if you go back a few years. Although it is dangerous to use statistics sometimes, since you can compare different things, it is not possible to get away from some of these crimes becoming more common than they used to be. I am thinking of crimes carried out in such a way that in different ways one lurks into an elderly person. Here you often work in pairs, where one distracts and the other makes different approaches. I am also thinking of the pure assault crimes, where an offender makes a quick attack on an elderly person and then escapes at a calm pace. I am also thinking of all the fraud crimes that many older people are exposed to and where the grey area, not least within it, is difficult to prosecute – sometimes because it is difficult to prove that crimes have occurred. For this reason, as has already been said, in 2010, the Alliance considered that the penalties for this type of crime should be tightened up. That is why I think it is a good thing that a national model of crime coordination has now been introduced, because it is not uncommon for foreign gangs to specialise in this type of crime. It is very important here to put a clear stop and prosecute these people. It is also good that the government has decided on a Council of Law referral, as was apparently done in December. This means taking steps to ensure that the objective of the old alliance reform of 2010 is better achieved. In other words, this means that the scale of penalties for certain crimes is tightened. I am, as the Government sees, not afraid to give praise when needed. In this area in particular, I believe there is much to be done. Having said that, I think it is a pity that it is not recorded that it is a more serious crime when an elderly person or another defenceless person is subjected to crime. Both I and my party have written motions about this before. I think it would be of great value in courts when the crime is to be assessed if one actually takes in such a factor. So I would like to thank the Government for the interpellation response. I see that there is an ambition to try to solve these crimes. With regard to confidence in the police, which we are going to debate later today, it is also something that will unfortunately affect this type of crime. Strong priorities must be set, and it is not at all certain that the police can even go out when this type of crime has been committed. I've had a lot of testimony about this. I would therefore like to have a debate on whether various measures can be taken to ensure that this type of crime can be prosecuted better and more quickly.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-20	Mr President, I would like to I share Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng's hatred of old age crimes. I also mainly share his analysis of the importance of crime coordination and coordinated work against these crimes. On the other hand, I have a little more doubts about the statistical data presented here. It is true that this type of crime increased a few years ago. But in recent years we have seen a sharp decline. Thanks to the coordinated work, thanks to a number of convictions and tough work against the foreign leagues, we have reduced the number of old-age crimes by up to 20%. The decrease has been greatest in West Sweden, Lars-Lars-Arne Staxängs own home area. This is because the national coordination responsibility for this type of crime is located in West Sweden. I dare to argue that in Western Sweden, too, preventive work has been best done, namely to take time from the limited police resources to join the two major pensioners' organisations in attending meetings around West Sweden to inform the elderly about how best to protect themselves and how best to ensure that they are not fooled by these dubious perpetrators. This results both on the prosecution side with many convictions through good police work and in fewer and fewer older people being exposed to this type of crime. That is, of course, very pleasing. On the other hand, we must not be satisfied with the fact that we have seen a reduction; this crime must continue to be reduced. And I am happy to take part in a continued debate with Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng on what the most effective measures for further reduction can be.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-24	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, but unfortunately I am not entirely convinced that this is enough. I think we should avoid hitting statistics in each other's heads today. I'll try to avoid it, and I think it would be an advantage if the government did too. Statistics can be used incorrectly; it is very easy to compare apples and pears. I am also pleased that some statistics show that a certain type of crime has gone down, so also in West Sweden. I am very pleased with that, but unfortunately there are too many crimes left. Some of the crimes have also become more serious. You even fly on older people when they stand with their technical aids, and you snatch gold chains and handbags. You take valuables and don't care if the older person falls and strikes — perhaps even breaks legs. Such assaults have increased, and so we must make a real effort against these very crimes. As I said, we will discuss the situation in the police. It also affects this type of crime. Public confidence in the police has fallen dramatically, especially in 2016. That is why I believe that more needs to be done to curb these crimes. It is good that we can get a central group to catch these leagues, as has been said, but more local knowledge is also needed to make the effort optimal. It was one of the basic foundations of the new reform. Unfortunately, we're not there. Although it was one of the most important elements of the reform, this is lacking in practice in most municipalities. Where this has been inserted – for example, Tensta has tried it last year – the number of crimes has fallen dramatically. It is not surprising; it is only when you can prosecute crimes and when you have local police who know the situation that there can be a radical change. In Novus's study last year, the issue of law and order just emerged as the one that increases most when it comes to people's concerns. That is why the government must face up to this with adequate measures to show that it is on the right track. This has not been the case so far. I would therefore like to raise a few points which I think could improve the situation. Instead of screwing up the government, I would like to try to ask the Government whether this could be a way forward. First of all, we should step up anti-fraud efforts. It is the type of crime that is increasing most of all at present, and these crimes often affect older people. We also need to provide better support to older victims. Crimes against the elderly should be prevented and investigated effectively throughout the country, and we will also get better statistics on how it looks in Sweden. The age of the target owner should also be reported more clearly in the criminal statistics. These are some points I think could improve the situation and, above all, we would be told what it looks like in the country and thus be able to put in place proper measures. I think we need to make sure that we prosecute this kind of crime. We need to get the police to work locally. All parties have been behind the reform, but we also see that there have been great difficulties and that the management structure in many places still does not work. I would therefore like to know whether the Government intends to put in place in the near future some new measures to bring this reform to a successful conclusion.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-33	Mr President, I would like to There were four concrete questions and an open question from Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng. Despite the limited speaking time we have in this House, I will try to answer them, and I apologise if it is perhaps a little straightforward because of the lack of time. The first question was whether we should step up anti-fraud measures if they grow sharply. The answer is yes. Unfortunately, fraud offences, especially those with an IT component, have such an advantage in terms of scale that we have to counter them at source. We need to raise the requirements for our ID cards and other ID sources, and we need to raise the requirements for banks. We also need to raise the demands of those who sell things with these components. It will simply be more difficult to commit fraud. Then we will also be able to prosecute the reduced crime that remains. The second question was about better support for victims of crime. Absolutely! This is also the reason why the government has increased funding for victims' helpers through compensation from the Crime Damage Fund. The third question was about better statistics. Yes, it was one of the three powerful measures I presented with the chief of police. The measure is twofold: on the one hand, it is a task for the police to report statistics down at the local police area level, i.e. the municipal level, so that we can follow up and compare different local police areas and police areas with each other. On the other hand, it is a task for Brå, the Swedish Crime Prevention Council, to make the security statistics degradable at municipal level so that we can follow the security developments and vulnerability to crimes at municipal level. In this way we can also compare security work in police areas, municipalities and public Sweden. It is not only the police who are responsible for security, but also the other public Sweden can make great efforts to increase security – not least for the elderly. The fourth question was about criminal statistics and the elderly, and unfortunately I have to answer that question. I do not know exactly how it is conducted and how it is planned, so I will have to come back to that. The last, a little more open, question was whether I am planning to take any action in the short term to ensure the effects of police reform. The answer to that question is yes. That's why I had a meeting with the chief of police. The result is not good enough; too few policemen have come out locally. That is why the head of the National Police is now putting an end to employment in the national departments. What is positive, however, is that in all the most socially vulnerable areas, where insecurity has been greatest, there have been more police officers in the previous year. You took Tensta as an example, Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng, and it is one of the areas. There, this priority has produced a good result – although, like Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng, I think you should be a little careful with the statistics. Perhaps the positive effect is slightly less than what these statistics express, but it has in any case been a positive effect. It is a slightly different situation, by the way, when the government has to try to dampen the positive atmosphere in the opposition, but that is a good thing! Further action will also have to be taken on the police, and we will come back to that soon in another interpellation debate. Basically, however, we have managed to break the trend for some important old age crimes. There is more to be done, and we will step by step take the other measures needed to make older people feel more secure and secure in our society.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-42	Mr President, I would like to I think the government's ambition is good – and I think it would have been forced to do so if it were not convinced earlier. With regard to Eliasson and Ygeman, who have now met several times and in some cases actually put forward some proposals, it has largely had little effect so far. I have not seen those powerful proposals that the entire police force is asking for. My own son's been a cop. He's one of the quitters. He's in the statistics as one of the over 800 police officers who left last year. So I've got entrances to what it looks like in the field, and it's not so beautiful everywhere. We must get a fresh start, both in the police and in public confidence. A survey in Aftonbladet in the past showed a dramatic fall in public confidence in the police. For many and long times, the police have usually had good confidence – and so it is in most countries – but according to this survey, confidence had fallen by as much as 20 units, from almost 60 per cent to less than 40 per cent. Those who did not have confidence in the police had also increased accordingly. We can't have this. That is why I believe that, if he now takes the habit of going to the chief of police to meet with him, the minister will actually sit down and think. What has come to light so far is not enough. We actually need to do more. We have to turn the ship around. It is not only a case for the government, but it is also a case for us in Parliament and for society as a whole. It is about trust in democratic Sweden.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-46	Mr President, I would like to We will come back to the discussion on statistics and trust, but I would be very careful not to draw too much attention to the source of statistics mentioned by Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng. This is a self-recruiting panel, which means that, for example, Swedish Radio regularly chooses not to report these figures, as they are not statistically secured. We have a very large survey with good basic numbers which also shows a decline, but to a much smaller extent. Let me also remind you that in the evaluation of the police reform, Statskontoret believes that it takes about five years for this type of reform – it has been for corresponding reforms in Denmark and Holland, for example. I believe that one should now be careful not to take big new grips and to believe that it is the organisational form that is important for the police. We must focus on the activities: making people safe, arresting criminals and preventing crime. I would humbly point out that we now have more police workers than we have ever had in Sweden. We invest more resources in the police than we have ever done in Sweden. Although Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng's son was not one of them, I can tell you that of the 800 who have quit, two thirds have either retired or moved to work at the Swedish Security Service. After all, prior to the reform, the Security Service belonged to the same authority as the police, so this had not in the past involved a shift of activities. Having said that, there is still a lot to be desired in the development of Swedish police. We are following these developments closely, and we will soon have the opportunity to discuss them in more detail.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-51	Mr President, I would like to Emma Wallrup has asked me whether I intend to ensure that the police keep and report statistics on the number of road traffic checks carried out. She has also asked me whether it is my view that the introduction of national targets on the number of checks on professional traffic may be an appropriate instrument to combat illegal cabotage and illegal professional traffic. Finally, Emma Wallrup has asked me whether I intend to take measures to strengthen the competence of police and prosecutors to combat illegal cabotage. Road safety work is a self-evident and important part of the Political Authority's activities. The aim is first and foremost to help reduce the number of road deaths and injuries and to provide safety for road users. Controls on heavy commercial traffic are also an important tool for maintaining healthy competition in the haulage industry and for detecting other forms of crime. The budget proposal for 2017 shows that the Police Authority is providing funds to improve, among other things, controls on cabotage transport and flying inspections of commercial vehicles – something that not least the Left Party has pushed for. In accordance with the mandate set out in the regulation letter to the Police Authority, the measures taken in these respects shall be reported in the annual report until 2020. The requirement for reporting back includes reasoning on the effects of the measures that are deemed to have or are expected to result in. However, it is the responsibility of the Political Authority to determine how the overall resources are to be used and to ensure that the supply of skills is balanced in relation to the needs of the activity. The same applies to the Prosecution Authority.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-58	Mr President, I would like to I put this question to Minister Ygeman in view of the chaos that is currently prevailing in the haulage industry due to EU entry and the dumped labour market, where we have released the labour rules that we have had in Sweden. Now we see the scars of this on our roads. It has become an industry that unfortunately resembles pure mafia in some parts. We see how drivers drive to starvation wages and how rules are broken. This is both a traffic hazard and a work environment hazard. It is also a question of competition with healthy hauliers – this competition is not well balanced today, but it is very tough. We in the Left Party are very pleased that in the negotiations we managed to get through this increased investment in traffic police to combat illegal cabotage operations. In Denmark, an investment of just 25 million was made in 2013. There was a model where ten policemen worked full-time — successfully — systematically prosecuting, or controlling, the illegal cabotage traffic. The Left Party hopes that the government will look at Denmark in this case. After all, the number of traffic policemen has fallen drastically, and today we have problems throughout the welfare system with insufficient resources. We have a great debt in the whole welfare system since the bourgeois government, because of tax cuts. In fact, this is also due to the right turn of the 1990s throughout politics and to the economic crisis. Precisely because resources are scarce, focused work would be helpful. It has been successful in increasing controls with the Danish model, with ten police officers working focused on this in a specially trained working group. This is a way forward. I think I got some fuzzy answers to my questions to Anders Ygeman. The Swedish Transport Agency's reports show that there are no set targets for the number of roadside inspections and that there are poor statistics and poor follow-up. It is remarkable that there are no objectives to follow up, because if we are to tackle this problem, with the small resources we have, it feels even more important to have target management. That is why I again ask the Government whether he is prepared not only to rely on the rather overloaded activities of the police, but to be a little clearer in the strategies surrounding this. Is the Government prepared to develop clearly measurable targets that can be followed up?
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-66	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I am opposed to the image of chaos on our roads. A number of measures have been taken, both by the former government – then driven by an active opposition – and by the current government. Among other things, we have significantly increased the penalties and made it possible to demand payment directly on the road. We have introduced the possibility of squabbling, and we are now moving on and are going to introduce squabbling for real, i.e. squabbling until the penalty fee is paid. We have also given official assignments regarding, among other things, increased customer responsibility. It is true that the number of traffic officers has decreased over time. The reason for this is that we have introduced something called automatic traffic cameras, which manage a very large part of speed monitoring. However, it is also true that the number of car inspectors, i.e. the professional category of the police that is particularly focused on controlling heavy traffic, has increased. In six out of seven police regions, the number of car inspectors is increasing, allowing for a more powerful control of heavy vehicle traffic, as this is often a rather complex phenomenon requiring a degree of police specialisation. Now they can work together with the local police and the other traffic police to ensure order and order of our roads. On the last question, whether I am going to set detailed targets for how many – and what – controls are to be carried out, the answer is no. I don't believe in that kind of detail control by the police. The police were previously affected by this type of detail management – new public management, or stick hunting, as it is usually called in the everyday speech. We control with effect goals: safety, safety and order and manage our roads. The police should be the police, and on the basis of these goals you have to choose how to set up the work in the most efficient way. Then we follow up on the results of the police's work. I dare to argue that in recent years there has been more, rather than less, order and order in our ways. Much remains to be done and much remains to be done at EU level. The legislation that surrounds professional transport in Europe is complicated, overlapping and sometimes even partly contradictory. It is very difficult, even for a highly trained car inspector, to determine whether a transport is to be considered a cabotage transport operation or a transport operation under the combined transport directive. These are complicated court proceedings, one of which is against the other. We will solve this by no less than taking a strong stand in Europe for simplification and improvement of the regulatory framework. Then we can also put an end to some other offshoots that exist on our roads as a result of the holes in the EU acquis.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-75	Mr President, I would like to One might think that chaos is a strong word, but I would say that, on certain routes and on certain occasions, there is now chaos because of the totally poor conditions in this industry. Last year, trucks were tipping over cars. In Uppsala, a truck drove into a train. It is a bit like a picture of the extreme that instead of investing in the railways, we let the off-roads take over the roads and dump the conditions. In southern Sweden, not least, the traffic situation is very tough precisely because of all these trucks on the roads. A lot of people testify to that. We can read about this in newspapers, and it is a major debate on it throughout the European Union, because it has become such a big problem. The competence of the police must be increased. It is positive that the government is now coming up with a new bill, which implements an EU directive to strengthen the police's competence on these issues. I hope that the Government will follow up on the fact that this is happening in a good way and, above all, it will have an effect. The Prosecution Authority also needs to be strengthened. Few prosecutors know these rather complicated issues, and many cases have been closed. This is basically a case that has resulted in fines here in Sweden. A Romanian man had cheated on the tachograph, which led to heavy fines. However, a large number of cases have been closed, where there has been evidence that drivers have not even had a driver's licence for trucks and a number of other things, with reference to various reasons. The trials should be conducted so that the drivers receive a signal that we as a society do not accept this kind of development on our roads. Instead, when drivers are released into the trials, it signals to the other drivers that it is okay to break the rules. It will not happen very much anyway. I think that the Government should be a little clearer and follow up on this. We know that there are a large number of cases, and the police are overloaded because of reorganisation and so on. There would be a need for clear advice and guidelines from the government and the Government and a follow-up to see that the boat turns around, that cases are actually considered illegal when they are illegal.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-80	Mr President, I would like to No, I don't share the view that things are being let through in court. I must remind you that we have a social system in Sweden where the courts examine the cases independently and that they cannot be reviewed by parliament and government. As for the case of lack of a licence, we can note that the Macedonian driver, who had bought a Bulgarian driving licence, was released in the District Court but then convicted in the Court of Appeal, so in this sense the judiciary seems to have acted in accordance with Emma Wallrup's wishes. We should also note that there has been a shift from fines to fines, and there are strong fines. You can receive up to 40 000 SEK in penalty fees. And if you do not pay the penalty fee in advance, you risk your vehicle being trampled so that the journey cannot continue. This is a much stronger measure than passing fines or bringing the matter to court. It is a measure that I think will have a powerful effect, especially when we move on and change the rules so that you can't walk just for 24 hours but for a long time. I also believe that it may be worth strengthening the customer responsibility, so that the person ordering a shipment must ensure that it is done in a good and legal way. Apart from what I said in the previous reply, the EU rules need to be improved, because they are too unclear and make too much use of police and car inspectors' resources and that too many people can sneak through the net. The next step must be to make greater use of the new technologies. The government has now moved on and permanent alcoboms in our largest ports. It is a good first and important step. You have to be able to use cameras and other systems. It is necessary to be able to remotely read tachographs in order to check a much larger number of vehicles than can be done at the roadside. By using smart new technology, tightening up legislation, continuing to train specialists and car inspectors and by breaking up training for traffic police officers, so that it ends up in smaller sections and so that you can train in shorter sjok, the Swedish traffic police activities will be successful. We will thus be able to continue to increase the legality of our roads.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-87	Mr President, I would like to I'm glad that the Government highlights these issues and especially that he wants to strengthen the possibility of extended squeezing – that's very good. Now we hope that the investigation into the client responsibility and the upcoming bill will be effective. According to the Swedish Transport Agency, in 2012 – 2015 only one prior investigation has taken a decision on the customer responsibility. It has been a major flaw and needs to be tightened up. There needs to be clear rules that can be followed up. It would be very good if you worked to strengthen the competence of prosecutors and also of the police and to follow up on the education that is now coming, because the cases are complicated. We see how many cases have been closed. I agree that it was a good thing that the case of the Macedonian driver went ahead for decisions in the Court of Appeal. At an earlier stage, however, the decision that was made was probably due to the fact that the authority of the prosecutor was too low. It's a sign that we need to work on that part. I hope that the Government will be able to take along, follow up and discuss this with the Prosecutor's Office and ensure that there will be training efforts on the ground. This is a bigger question of how we let society slip away, that we simply let ethics be thinned out in a wide range of areas, and market forces take over. Because traders want to be able to have cheap prices in the shops, they dump the prices of transport. That's what we'll get these off-the-shelfs.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-93	Mr President, I would like to I and Emma Wallrup share the hopes of the investigations and the missions that have been given. They will hopefully lead to better regulation. At the same time, I would like to warn you a little bit about taking preliminary investigations and clippings as examples of success. The goal is not prosecution and prosecution, but compliance. Just by tightening up the customer responsibility, I think we are increasing our understanding of the customers' responsibilities, that they can actually be held accountable if they have not complied with the rules. I believe that the possibility of squeezing, even though it has been used to a rather limited extent, has made compliance on our roads considerably stronger. We should have good controls, but the goal is not to prosecute as many as possible. The goal is for those on the road to follow the rules. In this way, we are also protecting those who are already in compliance with the rules today and who have had to compete with rogue drivers who do not comply with the rules. We will of course have well-trained prosecutors, and I will do what I can to ensure that there is competence at the Prosecutor's Office in this area too.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-98	Mr President, I would like to There is a sharp throw in the Chamber today. Daniel Bäckström has asked me what consequences I believe the situation described in the emergency services can have and what measures I and the government are prepared to take in this regard. According to the Accident Protection Act, the municipality is responsible for prevention and rescue services within the municipality. These activities are of fundamental importance for people's safety and security and must be able to operate effectively and safely. The activities of municipalities in this area have long been organised with full-time and part-time firemen. This system is an effective and cost-effective way to ensure that there are sufficient emergency resources throughout the country. The availability of emergency facilities that can quickly be in place and start a relief operation is crucial for effective and safe response. It is therefore serious that many municipalities cannot maintain their determined preparedness for civil protection. One of the main reasons for this is that municipalities have great difficulties in recruiting part-time firefighters for various reasons. Against this background, the Government intends to mandate a special investigator shortly to analyse the situation and propose measures to improve the conditions for municipalities to conduct as effective and preventive activities and civil protection as possible. Questions concerning the recruitment of part-time firefighters will be an essential part of the mission. I and the government will continue to closely monitor developments in this area and, if necessary, take further action. At the same time, it is important that municipalities step up their efforts to ensure the efficiency and quality of their activities.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-105	Mr President, I would like to I thank Minister Ygeman for his reply. I wrote this interpellation because the Swedish Civil Protection Service is an important and basic resource for security and security throughout the country. It has been for many years, and it will continue to be so. When ongoing reporting from many locations around the country raises major questions about staffing and preparedness in both the short and long term, we need to engage in dialogue in the Riksdag on the conditions and the current situation. This is an activity that deserves a strong political commitment both locally and nationally, and it requires a long-term strategic development approach. It also requires conditions that make more people want to take on this important mission and go into the tasks of civil protection. Maintaining civil protection and recruiting, not least part-time fire brigades, has long been a major challenge. In rural and smaller areas, population reduction, restructuring, changing workplaces and changes in the local labour market have made it difficult to put together workable emergency schedules and maintain the necessary preparedness with suspension times and planning. It is most difficult to get the daytime together when many leave the town for work in other places and have too far to get back and pull out. There are also people who have a lot of preparedness when trying to get their different work schedules together, and it is not sustainable over time. Many part-time corps have been closed down over the years. Some have been converted into firefighting, which is based more on voluntary activity than on employment. This poses major challenges for rural areas and for the state of preparedness. Access to and distance to education has also meant that some have abstained from applying, and we need to work on that. It is also an important resource for total defence preparedness, not least for civil defence. The part-time fire brigade is considered by many to be the backbone of Swedish civil protection, with strong commitment, local anchoring, very good knowledge of the conditions in the country and a broad competence from different experiences in the labour market. From a municipal economic perspective, this is a form of employment that involves a reasonable cost for having a professional organisation in all the municipalities where it is located. It is also important that we work to have as close a way of working as possible between employers and employees and that there are clear requirements and objectives for our operations and a long-term perspective. This is perhaps the single largest security creator and resource for security in our country. It is both great values to be protected and important preventive work to be done. It is important that we can feel security in everyday life and know that emergency services are responding when we need it in an emergency. This requires staff who are committed and motivated to enter the data, and high availability is required. Out of 15,500 civil protection workers, over 10,600 are part-time employees. I have received a good answer from Anders Ygeman, but I would like to know more about the timing of the investigation and what things you want to shed more light on.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-119	Mr President, I would like to In our small towns, part-time firefighters are part of the backbone to maintain safety and help in the event of a fire or, for example, road accidents. Many part-time firefighters have previously worked in the area, but when small factories or other small businesses in the country are closed down it becomes increasingly difficult to recruit staff. You have to start thinking in other ways: Can someone who works at a school or a preschool become a firefighter? This has not been the way to think before, for there have been, for example, factories where you have been able to shut down the business temporarily to extinguish a fire. This makes it immensely fragile. There is also strong popular support. When I have met part-time firefighters in small towns in my home country, I understand that the mission in the emergency services is often inherited in the family, mainly from father to son. It has been seen as a calling to defend one's area against accidents. It would be difficult if this were to go away. If we wait for an investigation for two years we have had time to close down in many places, and then we cannot get these traditions back. It's easy to destroy this kind of thing, but it's hard to get it back. It is already fragile. At the same time, it is not possible to have full-time firefighters throughout the country, but fire protection is based on part-time firefighters. Anyone who makes a deal to be a part-time fireman is also sacrificing something. You may have to be somewhere else than you want on Midsummer Eve and cannot do what you want in the evenings because you are bound by their on-call hours. Often an entire family spends quite a lot of social commitment in order for a family member to be able to be part of the fire defence. It is problematic when conditions deteriorate in new agreements. Although it is a municipal responsibility, we have a national responsibility for ensuring that individual municipalities do not destroy something that is so important to us. We have seen the forest fires that have been. The need for civil protection and civil protection personnel will not be reduced in the future, on the contrary. It will require us to stand up for them to be in place. I'm concerned that the investigation is taking too long. Then this commitment and these people are gone, and they cannot be brought home again. They can get other jobs-- they already do today.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-130	Mr President, I would like to I am grateful for the opportunity to discuss this in this House and to answer the questions asked. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that civil protection is a municipal responsibility. This means that each municipality is independently responsible for recruiting part-time firefighters and organising them. The municipalities that have apparently been too small to cope with the task have to a varying extent chosen to cooperate with other municipalities to cope with it. It is not the task of the state to set salaries. It is not the task of the state to recruit part-time firefighters. It is a municipal responsibility, and then one cannot pretend that it is a state responsibility and that it is state action that will decide the matter. It is, on the other hand, a state responsibility to ensure that civil protection personnel are trained. It is important that the forms of training are such that we can have a good supply of skills and facilitate recruitment. It may be worth discussing in which places in the country you should do this, how close you can do it in the future place of duty and the conditions of the training, but also its scope, i.e. how long the continuous time it should have. The further away from the place of employment and the longer the continuum, the harder it will be to combine with another job. No one has to wait for an investigation. The person responsible for the operation can take the measures they consider necessary now. They may have done this yesterday, they can do it today and they can do it tomorrow. However, I hope that the investigation will facilitate the future work of part-time firefighters and rescue services. There are a lot of issues to discuss. I would like to wait to discuss the more detailed content with Daniel Bäckström until we have a directive. I have nothing against discussing the directives in advance, if there is any interest, so that we can have a common understanding of what should be investigated. We should not close the door to discuss the direction in which the part-time fireman task will develop in the future, what different development tracks there are and what things we can do on the part of society and the state to facilitate one or the other development. Lotta Olsson raised the issue of wage formation. I would like to say once again that in Sweden this is a matter for the social partners. They're the ones who organize firefighters, and they're the ones who organize employers. They negotiate and come up with different conditions. This is not something in which the state or the government should interfere, either in order to raise or lower wages. We have a Swedish model that has perhaps been the world's most successful wage formation model. We should not destroy it by going in and poking into something that we might optically think is wrong. It would be doing us all a disservice in the long run. I think that when people think about it, they see the accident in politicians being inside and poking at details in wage formation. Let the social partners do this. We have traditionally strong partners both on the employers' side and on the workers' side. They are fully capable of asserting their rights and obligations in the market.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-140	Mr President, I would like to It is important that we can engage in constructive dialogue on the further work and direction of the national perspective on civil protection issues. The reports that come daily, both via the media and in direct contact with those in charge in the country, testify that a great many today announce that they intend to leave their job as an employee in readiness. It is difficult to say exact figures for this, but in many municipalities around the country there is a great worry. Some people say that it can be 500-1 000 people, but precise figures can be followed up. If this is carried out and they resign from their duties as part-time fire or on standby, in a few months' time when we arrive at the spring period, it will be a situation where many of the municipalities concerned cannot maintain their readiness. Then it'll be a crisis. This does not guarantee that the emergency services will be alerted, nor is it possible to plan a functioning operation. In a situation where it is already difficult for a long time to recruit staff for part-time jobs and activities, it is now in danger of becoming even more difficult. Then the signals that come out are extremely important. It is deeply unfortunate if Swedish society loses an important resource for preparedness work with very long experience and commitment. They have perhaps been involved in civil protection throughout their working lives and make a big difference when it comes to meeting people's needs in everyday life. I am concerned about this situation in the short term. I am fully aware that this is a matter of agreement between the parties in question, but we have a situation that we have to follow up in practice – what it will look like in the summer. We may have reason to come back to that in this House too. I would like to ask how the Minister views the short-term perspective from what is currently being reported around the country. When it comes to the investigation, it is important to know when it is expected to be completed, in order to be able to proceed with the practical proposals that come in to the government and manage a good political continuation and dialogue with the responsible municipal politicians within the framework of SKL and others. We must work to ensure that preparedness can be maintained and that long-term planning is a prerequisite. We must not end up in a situation where we get a new situation for Swedish preparedness, where we will now increase the pace to get as good a total defence planning as possible and increase the focus on these issues in the next few years. Replacing a former employee will require a lot of resources and commitment, including training resources. Then, as a government official, one must be prepared to consider what will be required when it comes to training places in a situation where people have left their assignments. If the reports are correct, there may be several who will do so. I also hear examples of thinking about removing smoke divers' skills in order to lower requirements in the country. This has a direct impact on the possibilities for the emergency work and operations to be carried out.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-150	Mr President, I would like to Just as the Minister says, fire defence and the fact that you have enough educated people is a municipal responsibility, but so is the school. The business has been treated rather rigidly, I think. It's not a new phenomenon, but it's worked and it's rolled on. With this, there has been no need to worry about the fact that there are very few places of education. It can be difficult for parents of young children to get to the two places that exist today. Course activities have only been conducted in two locations. There is a state responsibility for municipalities to fulfil their mission. Otherwise, we would not have a school debate at all. Most issues are actually handled by our municipalities and county councils, but we have to look at how it actually works at a structural level. It is hugely different depending on whether it is a small municipality with a need for part-time firefighters or a metropolitan municipality with full-time firefighters. A big city can have resources in a completely different way. I must say that the Minister cannot duck entirely on these issues. He must somehow ensure that the municipalities have a good dialogue and work with the issues in a good way. Of course, wage levels are not something we should discuss here. It should be handled by others. But when you signal mass redundancies and that it can become a social problem that you do not have certain functions added when it gets summer and hot and when it can burn, I think the Minister has a responsibility.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-156	Mr President, I would like to There is a state responsibility for civil protection. We shall take this responsibility, and we have taken it too. We set up the investigation into the recruitment of part-time firefighters, and we look at how the training can be made as effective as possible to facilitate the recruitment of part-time firefighters by municipalities. But we don't interfere in wage formation. Although it does not sound like that in this House, the background is that a contract has been signed in which many people have been paid more and some have been paid less because there have been large differences between municipalities in the past. That's what happened. The responsibility for this agreement lies with those who have signed it, namely the trade union organisation that organizes firefighters and part-time firefighters around Sweden. They are the ones who have wished for this agreement. The responsibility also lies with employers and those who organise municipalities around Sweden. If it is the case that there are things in the agreement that do not work in the face of reality, it is the parties that have concluded the agreement that have to adjust it. They are also responsible for the operation. It is important to know what we are talking about: it is those responsible who have signed the agreement, and they are also responsible for the recruitment of firefighters. They must solve this task. As I said, I am happy to have a discussion with the opposition on the modalities of the directives, but I believe that, overall, the directives that follow the discussion we have had and the demands and wishes that have been made. Daniel asked about the preliminary date. It is in June 2018 that the investigation will be completed, according to the preliminary schedule. I am happy to come back and discuss this in other ways than in Parliament's Chamber.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-160	Mr President, I would like to Most emergency services face similar challenges. There are complex challenges with changes in construction, urban environments, social unrest and possible threats to be addressed. It differs from city to countryside with demography, distance and proximity. This is a huge question, and it is important that we focus on how we can together provide the best conditions in the kingdom for this to work as well as possible. It should also be as clear as possible on these issues in a citizen's perspective. I think it is very positive that the government now intends to set up an investigation to provide a good basis for further discussion and work on these issues. I welcome that. It is also important that we continue to discuss how it should be run. This also applies to the conditions for reporting in different ways. I assume that the Minister will follow up on the practical situation in the country's municipalities over the next six months on the basis of the announcements that are now publicly announced when it comes to civil protection. We also have a supervisory responsibility based on our government responsibility to ensure that there is preparedness throughout the country and that it has the potential to develop the business. It is also a question of municipalities being able to take full responsibility, as the Minister is also telling us. As a former municipal politician responsible for civil protection issues, I am aware of the importance of having a close dialogue in order to develop the work and work with the population on these important fundamental issues. Thank you for the debate.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-164	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Daniel Bäckström and Lotta Olsson for bringing forward these important issues, and I thank them for a constructive discussion in this House. I hope, of course, that the municipal authorities will sort out the situation, and we will follow it closely from the political level, on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the basis of the supervisory responsibility that now lies with the Swedish Civil Protection Agency. The discussion on investigation directives will take place in the future, and we will set up the investigation. We also have the previous review of the places of training, and hopefully this can lead to better recruitment of part-time firefighters and more efficient civil protection in the country. I'm not supposed to be philosophical, but let me still do a little look like this at the end of the interpellation debate. I believe that in the future, when we see how the labour market and civil protection are developing, we should have a broader discussion about what civil protection looks like throughout our country 10, 20 or 30 years ahead and about what things we might need to do to change it. Even though part-time firefighters have been incredibly successful so far, it may not be exactly this form of activity that will be alone in the whole country in the future. There may be other changes we need to make to ensure that the whole country has adequate protection of civil protection and fire brigades. Then we must be prepared to hold that debate as well. I look forward to future interpellation debates with both Lotta Olsson and Daniel Bäckström.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-169	Mr President, I would like to Tobias Billström has asked me what measures I intend to take to enable a fourth police academy in financial terms. He has also asked me what measures I intend to take to improve the ethnic composition of the Swedish police force and what measures I intend to take to ensure that a forthcoming fourth police academy is located in Malmö and more specifically in Rosengård. With regard to the issue of the ethnic composition of the police force, it is the responsibility of the Political Authority to ensure the competence of police activities. However, the government is closely following the issue. In the 2017 Police Authority Regulation Newsletter, the Agency has been commissioned to report on the measures taken to increase the proportion of employees, the proportion of applicants and the proportion of persons admitted to police training with foreign background. The Police Authority is actively working on the issue. Among other things, they have developed the admission process in recent years in collaboration with the Recruiting Agency and also work with various targeted campaigns to attract a wide selection of applicants to police training. When it comes to opening up to more universities to pursue police education, it can be noted that the Police Authority is currently the principal of the three universities that carry out police training. With current order it is the Police Authority that has influence over which and how many higher education institutions, after a decision by the government, will be allowed to conduct basic education to the police officer. The government's intention is for police training to become a college education. In the spring of 2015 a study was therefore set up on how to transform police training into a higher education programme. The report of the investigation Police in the future – police education as a university education(SOU 2016:39) was submitted in May last year and is currently being prepared in the Government Office. It is too early to comment on the details of such a change. Opening up to more universities to conduct police training can in itself mean a strengthened ability to broaden recruitment across the country. If the future undergraduate education to a police officer becomes a higher education institution, all organisers of such education, regardless of geographical location, can apply to the University Chancellor's Office, UKÄ, for a degree certificate for the police education.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-174	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer, Minister of the Interior. It is quite clear that the view as to whether this issue is urgent or not separates us. I believe that nothing can be more important at the moment than to force in every way the work of increasing the number of police officers able to deal with the growing serious crime that is currently plaguing our big cities, destroying the faith of the future and destroying the daily lives of many people in Sweden. The difficulties encountered by the police in recruiting and retaining their staff have been the subject of discussion for a long time. Basically, it is a matter of two things. It is about pay, and it is about working conditions. On the first issue, we Moderates have clearly established the line that the skilled men and women who work and work daily to protect us must have wage conditions in relation to this work. The staff flight that the Police Authority has experienced in recent years is unprecedented and cannot be explained away, but is about working conditions. This situation must be dealt with above all by raising wages, and I believe that the Minister for the Interior should make a clear statement here today. The second issue concerns training opportunities. In the reply, the Minister for the Interior refers to the political authority's responsibility to decide which and how many higher education institutions there should be. It may be so, but in the government's obligation to govern its authorities, there is plenty of room to announce what direction it wishes. If you want a new police academy located in Malmö and Rosengård, this can be communicated within government dialogue and in regulatory letters. It is excellent to have a clear view as a minister – if you like. It is therefore worrying that the government does not seem to see the important link between the place of education and the place of residence of the police. In 2005, as a Member of Parliament for Malmö, I took the first major initiative to exercise here in the Riksdag about a police college in Rosengård because after several meetings with individual police officers and after meeting residents in the district I realized that the benefits of such a placement were very great. The proximity of the population could establish the relationship between those who protect and those to be protected, and the need to strengthen the ethnic background of the police force in order to increase its authority towards the population could also be filled more easily. In addition, Malmö is a city that more than many others can rightly claim special attention when recruiting new police officers. The latest, following the disastrous development of the shootings of young people who have plagued the city during the terrible 2016 should be evident. If the trend is to be reversed, the criminals are arrested and prosecuted and people regain security, more police are required. Nevertheless, it is clear in this reply that the Minister for the Interior hesitates and that he does not want to give a firm answer on the question of a new police college with placement in Malmö. That's not good, Minister. It gives the impression that despite promises and visits, the government's commitment is not there. It gives the impression of a lack of sincerity in the face of reality.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-181	Mr President, I would like to I must acknowledge to Tobias Billström that he is a good politician and a good rhetoricalist. It honors Tobias Billström. On the other hand, the tone may be slightly turned up in relation to what Tobias Billström himself has delivered. We find ourselves in an odd context that I sit on the same chair that Tobias Billström sat on for eight years and in the same room that Tobias Billström sat in for eight years. One might then wonder why it is that the police's wage development, which according to Tobias Billström has been so disastrous for so many years, was not worth doing anything about according to Tobias Billström during his eight years of government. Now, in opposition, he suddenly thinks it is an important issue. How is it that Tobias Billström, when he was a Member of Parliament, committed himself to diversity and a police college in Malmö but for eight years in government, was unable to do anything about it? During Tobias Billström's time in government, the diversity and intake of police officers from other ethnic backgrounds decreased dramatically in the Swedish police. Why is it that diversity is important every time Tobias Billström is in opposition but never when he is in government? If Tobias Billström or any of the bourgeois members of the government ten years ago, when they moved into Rosenbad, had taken the initiative on the number of police officers, wages, diversity and a police college in Rosengård, all that would have existed now. But that's not the case. On the other hand, I am pleased that we now have more police employees than we had in any year when Tobias Billström was in government. Today, we are investing more financial resources in the police and have a disrupting budget than any year when Tobias Billström was in government. So there is a positive development in that part. Then the results of the police are still too bad. The results of the police have fallen seven years in a row, and we are now doing our best to reverse that trend. In many parts of the country, this trend has also begun to reverse. We've got more cops in all the socially vulnerable areas, including Rosengård. We can see that in one of the Stockholm suburbs, Tensta, this has led to a 60% reduction in the number of reported crimes, as another moderate Member reported earlier in this House. Of course, we want to see this development also in other socially vulnerable areas. I'm not closing the door for police training anywhere in the country. But at the moment, the discussion is ongoing as to whether we should have police training as a higher education institution. The Moderates have so far not wanted to do that reform. Therefore, my question to Tobias Billström is: Does Tobias Billström think that police education should in future be a higher education course so that you can get credits for all parts of police education and thus also be able to research the subject of police science?
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-188	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your praise, Minister of the Interior. The chair and the room may be the same but not the tasks. I was not Minister of Justice in the previous government and was not responsible for police matters. I thought Anders Ygeman was done with that. There is no doubt that the previous government should have been able to do more. My personal view is that a fourth police academy should have been established earlier and that it should have been located in Malmö and Rosengård. It's an opinion that I've never been afraid to pronounce, nor in the years that I was a minister. But now it is not my party or the Alliance that rules Sweden. It is the Social Democrats and Anders Ygeman who are politically responsible for the police, the police's working conditions and the number of police officers who are available to solve the task of combating the growing crime, and the Social Democrats and Anders Ygeman are of course also politically responsible for the composition of the police force. When we discuss here today why there are no more policemen being trained, who are going on duty or who remain in the profession and why, in the admission of new students to police colleges, we see a declining trend in terms of ethnic composition, it is to the Minister for Home Affairs that this Parliament must turn to. I am convinced that a significant step towards increasing the number of people with foreign background seeking police training is to place new training courses in places where, for obvious reasons, recruitment is made easier. This belongs to Malmö and it definitely belongs to Rosengård. When we discuss how the young people who dream of becoming police and working in this country's police force will have the opportunity to do so, the admission statistics for police training must also play a role. It is clear that in the context of education, the geographical location of an institution plays a role. It affects who applies for the courses, and it affects who stays in the neighbourhood. This is another strong argument for Malmö as a new location, and I would once again like the Minister for the Interior to be much clearer in his support for this here today than he is. Then a lot is done. Yesterday, a letter from a united Presidium in Region Skåne with representatives of the Social Democrats, the Moderates and the Environmental Party was handed over to the Minister for Home Affairs calling for more police officers in Skåne and more and more heavy efforts to increase the number of people involved in police activities, so that crime prevention can be carried out in the region and increased security for the citizens there. In the long term, I think that the Minister for the Interior will have to get used to the demands of Malmö and Skåne for more and clearer active work by the government on police matters being broadened. Finally, I would like to answer the question I was asked. Yes, the Alliance government reformed police training and concentrated on the demands of police officers' skills. We assessed that new police officers do not have to have an education that meets all the requirements of the Higher Education Act. In our opinion, admission to police training should continue to be based on the specific needs of police operations and not on the Higher Education Ordinance. This assessment has not changed from the time when we ruled Sweden to now that we are in opposition and the country has a new government.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-197	Mr President, I would like to It honors Tobias Billström that he answers the question, and he answers clearly. He thus shows that I was right, not only because he is a skilled rhetoricist but also because he is a skilled politician. Today, one of the three police colleges is located at Södertörn University. It remains to be seen what positive effects it will have on recruitment. I share Tobias Billström's view that the location and location are important, if v i starts at that end. Unfortunately, I believe that if diversity is to increase, much more needs to be done than just having police college education in the area. I think we need to have preparatory training. And I think we need to be more visible in schools. Throughout the country, it must be in the imagination of young people that they can become police officers, that they can be part of security. I think we have a lot more to do there. That's also why we've given these assignments to the Police Department. I'm following developments for the police closely. So far, it's been too bad. But I think we're turning things around again. On the other hand, I will correct Tobias Billström that I have been unclear when it comes to a placement in Rosengård. That is because I want to take that discussion in a wider context. At present and with the order chosen by the bourgeois government for police training, it is the Police Authority itself who is responsible for it. I have noted that the Chief of Police would like to see an education in Rosengård. However, it remains to be seen whether such a proposal is returned to the government. Tobias Billström also takes up the letter from Region Skåne, as it should be said that I have only seen in the media. I fundamentally welcome that letter. My answer is that more police are needed in Skåne. We need more cops in Malmö. Further steps are needed to reverse developments. New tools are also needed for the police. We have announced that we want to see a doubling of the penalties for weapons offences, so that there will be a presumption of detention, what is called mandatory detention in the media. The government decided yesterday to double the penalty for unlawful handling of hand grenades. We will continue to double that penalty when we double the penalty for unlawful possession of firearms. In both cases, there shall be a presumption of detention. So if you walk away from home with a gun or a hand grenade, you risk not coming home for at least two years. If you are caught by the police, you will first be forced to be arrested and then sentenced to court. I think this is a very important signal. For there have been some worrying signs; people in organised crime have been arrested with sharp-charged weapons, have admitted the crime but have a few hours later been out on the street again. It's been a bad order, and it's sent a bad signal. Let's change that now. I assume and believe that this change will be supported by the Moderates and Tobias Billström.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-206	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for a good debate, although I note that, as usual, we must continue to run the government ahead of us. With the darkness that has sunk over Malmö, where young people are shot to death on the streets every week and the population begins to see violence as a natural part of everyday life, political action and courage are required. It is excellent to have strict penalties. But it takes police officers to arrest criminals so they can be prosecuted. Measures designed to create the conditions to remove the conditions for organised crime to work are excellent. But without more policemen and without police officers who have the right equipment, the right training and the right wages, that work will not succeed. Then the discussions must focus on how more police officers are to be recruited, in order to combat the crimes, and how those who continue to work and toil daily in this country will be able to remain in the profession. The resignation speeches are not encouraging on this point, as the Minister for the Interior is well aware after many debates here in Parliament. The question of a police college in Malmö must be given priority by the government. The issue of improved conditions for those who want to enter the profession must come higher up on the government's to-do list. I welcome the fact that the Minister for Home Affairs says the place plays a role. I believe that if we have only recognised this, we have also, for ourselves, taken the first step on the path that should end with the government finally saying, in one way or another, that it is a will-oriented approach to where we want to see an establishment. True and finally, however, this debate underlines the importance of one thing, namely a new government that is beginning to resolve Sweden's police crisis.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-212	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes the successful rhetoric stands in the way of what you wish to do. Tobias Billström says that the Moderates will continue to run the government ahead of them and that a new government is needed to achieve what Tobias Billström expresses, namely more educated police officers and a police university education in Malmö. That's what he says after he's been in the government for eight years. That was eight years, wasn't it? - without having succeeded in that. First, he runs the government in front of him in opposition. Then he is in government for eight years and runs the government ahead of him. Then he is back in opposition and continues to push the government ahead. It seems that Tobias Billström has the ability to run the government ahead of him whether he is in opposition or in the government, but unfortunately without achieving the results he wishes. I'm gonna sprinkle some more salt in the wounds. The number of training places is larger now than when Tobias Billström was in the government. The number admitted to police college education is greater now than when Tobias Billström was in the government. The number of police employees is larger now than when Tobias Billström was in the government. And the number of crowns invested in the police is larger now than when Tobias Billström was in the government. I therefore welcome Tobias Billström's work as a successful opposition politician. For in a government position he was not as successful.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-216	Mr President, I would like to Then we will see Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng and I again, for today's second debate. Lars-Arne Staxäng has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to restore confidence in the Swedish police. We are asking the interpellant if I and the government will take any initiatives to ensure that there is a change in the leadership of the Police Authority, to give the Swedish police a fresh start. The National Security Survey is an annual victim and security survey conducted by the Swedish Crime Prevention Council, Brå. The survey includes information on confidence in the police. The latest survey for 2016 shows that the share of high confidence in the police has decreased from 65% to 61%, which is a decrease of 4 percentage points compared to 2015. However, the change may be considered to be small in this context, and in a longer time frame, the result is an increase of 6 percentage points compared to 2006 when the measurements started. Thus, confidence in the police is at a relatively stable level over time. Sweden should be a safe country to live in. It requires a strong judicial system with an accessible and effective police. In order to improve the results of the police, the government will therefore decide on a joint government mission to the Police Authority and the Prosecutor's Office to further strengthen cooperation in the criminal investigation work. This means that a number of prosecutors are assigned to the Police Authority to assist the police's investigators and investigators for a certain period of time in concrete cases concerning large-scale crimes. In order to relieve the burden of investigation, it is also part of the mandate to set up special investigation teams dealing with older cases. The police authority will also be given a government mandate to develop the monitoring of results in the agency. The reorganisation of the Swedish police is one of the most extensive organisational changes within the state in many years and the biggest change in the police service since 1965. Experience from previous government reforms shows that implementation is often more complex and takes longer than anticipated. Leading Sweden's largest authority in the current circumstances is a complex task. I have continued to trust the Chief of Police's ability to handle this difficult task.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-222	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to thank you for your answer. However, to be quite honest, I do not think that it contains clear proposals for improvements in the near future, which is absolutely necessary. I'll get back to that. I'll try to explain why. You should be careful with statistics because it can be misused. You measure different things. It is also human to take in the statistics that suit you. Having said that, it is very clear that almost all the statistics and measurements that have been produced in recent times show that it is a disaster of confidence in the police. In addition, the statistics on solved offences and on cases going on to prosecution show that the figures are falling sharply, particularly over the past year. As if this were not enough, Brå conducted a security survey last year, 2016. It does not show how many crimes have been reported, as should be pointed out, but how people experience the situation and the experiences they have of crime. The number of sexual offences is increasing very strongly, while cases going to the prosecutor's office have decreased by 24 per cent over a year. This, together, should shake us all a lot and the radar pair, if I may call it that – Minister of Interior Ygeman and Chief of National Police Eliasson in particular. At least that worries me a lot. Overall, it is about the important trust in a society. When security disappears, it becomes a very hard and unsafe Sweden. That is why I want the government and the Minister for Home Affairs to come up with executive proposals for changes as soon as possible in order to restore confidence in the police and our judicial system. The number of reported crimes is now 1.5 million. The crime that is increasing is primarily cyber-fraud and other frauds, assaults, illegal threats and sexual harassment. Another problem raised in the previous interpellation debate is that the number of eligible applicants for police schools is reduced. Of 8 000 applicants to 800 seats, only 705 were eligible. One is now beginning to think about whether to lower the requirements, which is quite the wrong way to go. Of the 705 who passed the tests, only 649 showed up when the training was due to begin – this at a time when 867 police officers have left, although some of them may have retired. In other words, the number of police officers is currently going down – this at a time when we should increase the number considerably, not least because the population has increased in recent years. One might wonder why this is so. I don't think it's just a pay matter. It is above all about how law enforcement has worked in practice and the joy of working that an individual policeman feels when a criminal is released after an arrest and causes even more misery to ordinary people. It doesn't give you any job satisfaction.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-231	Mr President, I would like to I think you should be humble when you describe the situation. When expressing the tone that Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng makes, perhaps you should also present your own proposals for changes. Although Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng had four minutes at his disposal, he does not. The situation is partly very worrying in terms of macro-level performance being too poor. But looking at these statistics, it can be seen that although the results have fallen for seven consecutive years – in five of these years it was a moderate government – for the first time the results of one of the regions, Region East. The same thing happens in a number of counties in Sweden. So there are cautious signs of lightening. They are not good enough, and that was also the background to my having this conversation. We have taken a number of concrete measures. We have increased the police's budget and continue to increase it to over SEK 2 billion. Every year with a Social Democratic-led government, the police have been given a bigger budget than they have had for some year with a moderate-led government. Every year with a Social Democratic-led government, we've had more police employees than we've ever had with moderate-led government. The number of police employees will rise. We educate more policemen than they did during the time that the Moderates ruled Sweden. It's true that cops stop. Two thirds of those who have left have done so because they have retired or because they have instead been employed by the Security Service. Previously, the police and the Secret Service were an authority. According to the previous statistics, it was not considered that these police officers had ceased their activities. We have also carried out a wide range of legislative efforts which I believe will be effective. We have refined the police's work by moving away animal husbandry, transport and other things that are primarily not police activities. We have considerably tightened the penalties for gun crimes, hand grenades and explosives. We have made it possible to judge gang leaders for crime as it has known, but not by itself. We have made it easier to pick off criminal their watches, cash and cars that have been an effect of the criminal activity. We have reinforced the police presence in all socially vulnerable areas. Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng expressed in the previous interpellation debate how successful this seems to be in one of the socially vulnerable areas. We go on to build new police stations, for example in Rinkeby, with over 200 police employees. We go on to strengthen the police presence, not only in the socially vulnerable areas, but around Sweden. In order to strengthen this trend, national services are now putting an end to employment. The waist will become narrower and the police will be strongest closest to the citizens and absolutely strongest where it is needed most in the most criminal areas. We have also tightened the police's performance accounting system so that we can better monitor developments and also so that the opposition can better monitor developments and hold both the police and the government accountable for the developments taking place in the kingdom.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-248	Mr President, I would like to It cannot have escaped anyone that it is really difficult in many places in Sweden. Only in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö there are serious crimes every day, and far too often even fatal shootings. Nor is it a secret that one is beginning to have great problems with youth gangs gathering together and exposing both the public and police and other community services to both violence and public insecurity. And I'm not just talking about the alienation areas that are around Sweden, but now it's actually becoming problems in the city centres. In Nordstan, sometimes called Femman, in Gothenburg it is not uncommon that large youth gangs take over especially in the evening when most have gone home. On several occasions even the police themselves have had to call for reinforcements in order to be able to make peace. We can't have this. All of this, along with fire incidents and vandalism, which have become commonplace in many cities, causes security to fall steeply. Here, society together must clearly put an end to it as soon as possible. It can't go on anymore. This isn't just about cops, because it's not enough. The police are, however, an important part. Society cannot give in and we cannot wait until next year for action. In a society where this doesn't work, everyone is a loser. That is precisely why I would like to ask the Government once again to put in a higher gear and make proposals that we can put through here in Parliament. It's necessary. Eliasson and Ygeman say in a DN article that there will be a stoppage in the police headquarters, which I agree. But the management structure in the country has so far not been as planned. The main focus would be on the local level. In most police systems around the world, and where police services work well, the local police are quite strong. Often two thirds are on the local police and one third is on the state police. We have to move that way. This was the basis for launching police reform. It is in the local anchoring, when people know security to their police, that knowledge flows forth. The population usually has more knowledge than the police about what it looks like with both one and the other crime. This can, in cooperation with the police and society in general, meet the reality we have before us. I will therefore come back to the statistics of the last year that scare me – if we are going to hit statistics in the head. You can go back a few years and see that the curves go up and down, but a survey by Aftonbladet and Inizio for the past year shows that confidence has fallen from 56 to 31 percent – that is, in one year! I don't know what kind of power words to use about such numbers. In the case of those who have no confidence in the police at all, the figures have increased from 21 to 44 percent. We need to change this. I realize it's a real uphill, but there's no other solution but to change this 180 degrees – as soon as possible.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-259	Mr President, I would like to I'm getting a little bothered. Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng is an honourable Member of Parliament. He has good knowledge of statistics and knows that Sweden has perhaps the best crime and security statistics in the world. He has read the Crime Prevention Council's statistics and is aware of the results. Instead of quality assured statistics with a wide selection, extensive data and high reliability, he chooses to report statistics from Aftonbladet and Inizio. This is a statistical source based not on a representative sample but on self-recruited internet panels. Anyone who wishes to do so may attend. This source of statistics is so uncertain that serious media in Sweden, except Aftonbladet, usually choose not to report the results further. I need to ask Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng a few questions. When he has these two sources of statistics in front of him, I wonder why he chooses the source he knows has a lot of problems instead of the one he knows to be of a high level. Could it be that one source confirms the image that Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng wants to bring forward while the other does not? Is this behind the choice of statistical source rather than reliability, credibility and statistical relevance? In that case, I think that Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng is out on a slippery ice because of the unusualness. This is not how he usually uses statistical sources, and I regret this. Let me say something about Nordstan and Femman in Gothenburg, which is one of Sweden's most visited shopping centres. Last year there were 35 million visitors. There have been major problems, but after successful police work there have been significant improvements. I think that during week 3 this year the number of reported crimes in Nordstan in Gothenburg had to be taken into account for five years. Many hard-working policemen, with fairly modest compensation, have done great things in the prevention of crime in Nordstan. This does not mean that all problems are solved, but the police have actually done a magnificent job. I believe, however, that more needs to be done. We have problems with certain groups in which we must have more active work from social authorities. For their own safety and for the safety of others, we must ensure that they do not deviate from accommodation or the forms of care in which they have been given the opportunity to participate. To the extent that they do not have the right to reside in the country, they must return to their home country. To the extent that it is difficult to get them to return or expel them, we must be able to keep them locked up pending deportation.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-265	Mr President, I would like to The last thing the Government mentioned is very important things. We have a good order in Sweden with a legally secure system. Courts take into account all the factors that may exist if you are an asylum seeker or if it is someone else. In fact, if this system is to work, you have to submit to the court's decision. Therefore, in this area too, I expect improvements for the police – perhaps through legislative changes – so that they can do this. This is part of the whole thing. But I get a little scared when the government gets into statistics. It is quite right that statistics can be misused, as I have said in both this interpellation debate and in the past. However, I would like to give a signal. This is not just about Aftonbladet's statistics. If there are statistics showing a signal that people are becoming increasingly insecure and have become so over the past year, this signal must be taken very seriously. I'll be afraid if the government thinks you can just sit still in the boat and let it go on. I think you have to do a lot of things, and that's gonna happen pretty soon. For example, I can refer to Ola Sjöstrand, Chief Prosecutor of Malmö, who very clearly says that Malmö is on its way to collapse. Even if you were to transfer police officers to Malmö in a short perspective, this means that there will be a shortage of other places. We must not forget the rest of Sweden either. For example, I met the organisation Företagarna Uddevalla in Bohuslän on Monday. They were upset that they could not count on help if they had a break - in or something like that today. So here's the thing about our entrepreneurs. If it's not about physical violence, they often don't even get a cop out to them when they've had a break-in, which might spoil their entire operation. This must not happen. We have to do something.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-270	Mr President, I would like to We're taking action. I have expressed the measures taken by the government and those we are planning to take. These are a large number of measures. However, Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng must beware of making self-recruited panels his own picture of reality when there are good statistics available. You have to be careful not to choose statistics based on what image you want to spread or create rather than the one that has the best basis. We have taken a number of measures in Malmö after the Chief Prosecutor's statement. Now there is a new Regional Manager for Region South. We have contributed SEK 144 million. We have transferred a large number of police officers and special investigators. All this we have done to be Malmö helpful. I think it is significant for the debate that, after four speeches, Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng concludes by saying that something has to be done but does not himself express a single thing that should be done. I myself have put forward a number of measures taken by the government. I think that this is quite speaking about what the debate on security, order and security looks like in Sweden today. I am happy to be a minister in a government that spends more money on police and security police than any government has ever done before.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-275	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman has asked me what steps I am prepared to take to clarify the government's position on the responsibility of both society and individual citizens for food security in the event of a crisis or war. It is important that food security works both in times of crisis and in times of increased preparedness. Our capabilities in this area will be built on an analysis of today's needs, which are not necessarily the same as in the past. In the event of a crisis or increased preparedness, we shall cooperate as much as possible with our neighbours in order to exchange goods. Both private and public actors play important roles in this work. Among the public actors, the Swedish Food Safety Agency has a particularly important role to play, as the Authority has an overall responsibility for coordinating food security emergency and contingency planning. Among other things, the Authority leads a private-public consultation group. In order to ensure good food security, national production needs to be increased. Increasing food production in Sweden is part of the long-term goals of a coherent policy for the entire food chain that the government, together with the bourgeois parties and the Left Party, have agreed on. By making Sweden more self-sufficient in food, the vulnerability will decrease. People are also expected to take responsibility for their own food security in the event of crises and increased preparedness. The Civil Protection and Preparedness Authority, MSB, has stated that a benchmark for all households should be that they have food at home that is sufficient for at least three days. Awareness of this and of how to prepare in other ways for crises and increased preparedness needs to be increased. MSB has an important task in disseminating such information and, against this background, has taken the initiative of a crisis preparedness week aimed at attracting commitment to our common security and preparedness. Developments in the area of security policy, coupled with the consequences of a change in the climate, make it increasingly important to increase the conditions for good food supply preparedness and to raise people's awareness of how best to prepare. I will continue to monitor developments in this area closely and will be prepared to take further action.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-281	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister very much for the interpellation response. It was in Sälen at the National Conference of People and Defence in January that the Government received questions regarding our capacity for self-sufficiency in food. The answer – at least what was referred to in the mass media – was about something that the Government was also involved in its interpellation response, namely to try first and foremost to bring about trade with our close neighbours. Mr President, I would like to I have written my interpellation to give the Government an opportunity to present a more nuanced position in this – as I think – rather complex issue. This dealing with neighbours in the event of long-term crisis, increased preparedness or even military conflict affecting the country is something of a simplification. Firstly, it is highly uncertain whether there can be trade between countries in such a situation at all. It is enough to recall the first and second World Wars, when blockades were used diligently. Despite a much higher degree of self-sufficiency than we have today, during both these wars Sweden was forced to ration food. Secondly, it is in such a situation that not only Sweden will need it. If there were to be a military conflict in our neighbourhood, it will be assessed – as the current government also says – almost all countries will be involved, and the countries that Anders Ygeman wants to trade with will, of course, primarily look after their own needs. But it is not just about getting enough food. It is also about how we can handle the food that comes to Sweden in such a situation. It may be good to recall that the possibility of storing fresh fish in this country, for example, has been considerably reduced in recent decades. Should we say an entire vessel of farmed salmon from Norway, we will have great problems to ensure that this food is fit for use when it comes out to the consumer. Another problem with referring to dealing with our neighbours is probably that individual people who listen to that message breathe out a little, Mr President. They feel that society is going to fix this. It is good that the Government now emphasises that MSB, the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency, allows all citizens to have at least three days of security of supply themselves. I don't think there are so many refrigerators around this country that can't feed the respective family for 72 hours. My question to the Government is therefore: is it enough for the individual to be responsible for his own food supply for as little as 72 hours? Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Defence took the initiative two years ago to produce a brochure entitled "If the crisis or war is coming". There we problematise this very limited ambition as regards the responsibility of individuals for their own livelihoods. If it is the case that we are to switch our trade in a crisis situation, then the Government must also reasonably realise that the individual himself may be forced to take responsibility for a significantly longer than 72 hours.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-288	Mr President, I would like to I'm a little bothered by Allan Widman's contribution to this discussion. I may have remembered wrong, but was it not the case that Allan Widman was present in Sälen and was able to follow the discussion that followed my speech? Those who were able to follow my speech could hear me speaking on these issues. I have said nothing of what Mr Widman is now trying to call me to account for. I have no need to protect myself from it. Let me quickly recapitulate what I actually said and which I still mean. I said self-sufficiency is a bad measure to start from. This is because our consumption patterns have changed so greatly. Unlike at the time of the First World War, and indeed the Second World War, mentioned by Allan Widman, we are consuming both pineapple and wine in Sweden today. This has led to a decline in self-sufficiency. But I think most citizens will be able to cope with a crisis or war situation very well without consuming either pineapple or wine. The basis, of course, is that we should be able to support ourselves to a large extent in a crisis or a war situation. However, none of the scenarios the authorities or experts assume in their planning includes that we will be completely shielded from the outside world. The development of food production in Sweden and virtually all other countries, except perhaps North Korea, Moldova and some others, has meant a significant degree of specialisation. You get better at producing a number of goods. Then you trade them for other goods. It is not that I, Sweden or the EU have in any way claimed to be dependent on another country to cope with the livelihoods of a crisis or a war situation. On the other hand, we will need some exchange of goods. We are very good at producing some food. Other countries – Allan Widman mentioned Norway – are very good at producing salmon. Unfortunately, we do not do so as much as Norway. There I think there is a significant potential for improvement in Sweden. If we are to build up our capacity to cope with a crisis or a war situation in the food supply sector as well, it must focus on managing the supply of basic food. Then the degree of self-sufficiency becomes a bad measure to look at. What is essential must be our ability to produce and, not least, to distribute essential food. As little as it is certain that we will be cut off from the world around us, we can be sure that it will be possible to distribute food in all parts of our country. It may be that part of the country is cut off. So it is not entirely obvious that it is only the borders of the nation that should be crucial to our ability to cope with a crisis. Then it's about the inputs. Today we have a transport system that is very much dependent on fossil fuels that we import from other countries. If we want to increase our ability to cope with a crisis or a war situation, we should change large parts of our distribution system so that we become less dependent on fossil fuels from outside. While we are doing so, of course, we need to have a significant stock of fossil fuels. It doesn't matter if the whole nation is self-sufficient in, for example, pork through production in Skåne if we are unable to distribute pork over the country.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-294	Madam President, I would like I can initially reveal that I had unfortunately left the People and Defence Conference when the Government made its speech. Nevertheless, the Government's response in this House now refers to our dealings with other countries, and I tried to problematise this ambition. Sure, there may be some experts who make the assessment that we in Sweden do not need to be completely cut off. But when planning for the worst scenarios, crisis and war, one should also have plans that the worst outcome can become a reality, i.e. that Sweden is completely cut off and that the opportunities for trade are no longer available. The government says he'll care about my questions. I note that in his reply he refers both to trade with other countries and to increased production, which is within the framework of the recent food strategy. The Government believes that increased production will lead to a reduced vulnerability for Sweden. Now I think he is overinterpreting the food strategy. The objective that is there, which is by the way the only thing that the government has managed to reach agreement with the opposition, is to increase food production. But it is far from the same as improving self-sufficiency or reducing vulnerability. As the Government itself points out: Is it the production of mushrooms and asparagus that is increasing, or is it meat and milk that the increase applies? And where in the country is the increase – is it happening on Gotland or in northern Norrland? It is also important, not least in the light of this issue of fuel safety, which the Government also brings up to date. Again, what opportunities do we have to deal with a situation where it is a matter of keeping food fit for people, getting them transported to the right place, and so on? Madam President, I would like I put a very direct question to the Government about this with 72 hours, which MSB is working on. It is my assessment that most families can last 72 hours without any preparation. At least I think most of them do. Most families with children have quite a lot of food in their refrigerators, and the durability is probably such that 72 hours is not a big challenge. The Government refers to the fact that, in a crisis or a war situation, we are partly to change our trade. However, I get the impression that he realises that it can be a much longer timescale when individuals need to fend for themselves. Furthermore, if we emphasise the individual's own responsibility, for example in the case of food in a crisis or a war situation, it will also aim at reducing the pressure on society to deliver in such situations. I would have liked the Government to have chosen to react to this with the 72 hours. I note that he is prepared to do more, and the question is this: is this an area in which the government could become even clearer?
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-300	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by answering the last question directly: yes, and that is also the background to the re-establishment of total defence and civil defence planning. We can certainly become clearer, and there is certainly more to be done. I think this is a subject that deserves a good discussion. Allan Widman asked another specific question, to which I unfortunately failed to reply in my previous speech, about this by 72 hours. I'll try to answer it now. That is a good start, but unfortunately I am not as optimistic as Allan Widman about the ability of the normal family of children to do this. I am sure that a normal children's family has enough goods in the fridge, but it can be much worse, for example, that we do not have electricity and that there is no cooling in the refrigerator for more than six, seven or eight hours depending on the energy rating it has. Maybe it takes goods at home to warm up. You may need to fetch water or have water available. They may have a significant supply of dry goods but not enough water to convert them into fit food. I think 72 hours is a good start, but then you may need to build on. I also think it's about thinking patterns. You have to think about what you have at home, how to go to the toilet during the 72 hours, how to arrange heat supply, how to make sure there is light and so on. Let me come back to Allan Widman's main question. Yes, I mean that we should try to have trade in goods and that the Nordic and European declarations of solidarity mean that we will be part of a trade in goods with our surroundings if we are able to do so. The vast majority of scenarios suggest that we will be able to exchange goods. Doesn't Allan Widman mean the same thing? I have always seen the People's Party, now the Liberals, as a free trade-friendly party, which also believes in the specialisation that becomes the outlet of free trade, namely that certain goods are getting better and better and can be exchanged with each other. It makes us all richer. It also gives us a better production of goods. It also serves a security policy purpose in itself, because the person you are dealing with and who is interdependent with will find it very difficult to be involved in armed conflict with. Democracy and free trade are in themselves long-term security-enhancing. I do not think that is a good way to go to believe that one should be nationally independent of all other nations and that one can build walls against other countries. I believe in trade. Then we will increase our level of self-sufficiency so that we can survive for a long time. There will then be a rather small number of foods compared to all the foods included in the level of self-sufficiency. Like Allan Widman himself, many of those foods may have little or no effect on how we manage food security in a crisis or a war situation.
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-306	Madam President, I would like I do not know whether it is the Government's ambition to try to impose a protectionist stance on the Liberals when it comes to food and other goods. We have probably been on the right side in that fight for quite a few centuries, and we will continue to stand on the right side. I also believe that the Social Democrats and Liberals, in relation to the food strategy, share the view that there needs to be a clear consumer and market perspective and that there should be a specialisation that can stimulate free trade also with food. But it is not about this. It is about the crisis and the war and what we do if it should happen: what opportunities do we have? I am a little concerned that Anders Ygeman chooses to take protection behind the fact that many experts make the assessment that we will still have trade. There is no guarantee of that, although it may be likely. The question then is: what does the government intend to do in such a situation? In that context, Madam President, this comes in with the 72 hours. I wonder whether the Government is prepared to say: yes, that recommendation should be reviewed so that it will be a longer time for the individual. This increases awareness and reduces the pressure on society to deliver when the crisis or war is there. Madam President, I would like For a couple of years, I myself have a supply of food at home. It lasts considerably longer than 72 hours. We have published a brochure from the Committee on Defence – it is a follow-up to If the war comes, as we know from the 80s. We have sent it to the municipalities and to the state authorities. My question is: is the government prepared to take an initiative to ensure that individuals throughout the country are given corresponding information?
i-a3cf3a9c349d5905-312	Madam President, I would like There's a chance I'm gonna miss a question. It sounded like Mr Widman asked three questions, and I have only recorded two answers. I must therefore begin by apologising if I miss a question by Allan Widman. The first question is: what does the government intend to do if we are completely cut off and the worst happens? Then my answer is that we are going to increase the production of food in Sweden. And we have given orders to restore total defence planning and civilian defence planning. This, of course, includes the ability to supply the population with food, including water, in a crisis or a war situation. The second question is: does the government think it would be a good idea to give the same information to the whole public? Then the answer is yes. Now I came up with the third question: do I want to extend the time so that it is more than the 72 hours that the Swedish Civil Protection Agency has expressed? There I would say that the answer is no. At present, I think that too many people are too far from the 72 hours, so I think that is a very good foundation to start with. Once we get that awareness through, we may be able to discuss whether it needs to increase further, but at present I do not think so. With that, I hope I have answered Allan Widman's questions. I would also like to take this opportunity to stress that, regardless of the production within the country, it is important that production can be distributed and stored in such a way as to benefit from it. Perhaps we have such significant challenges there.
