i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-0	Mr President, I would like to The European Council agreed last Saturday on guidelines for the forthcoming negotiations on Britain's withdrawal from the EU. No changes were made to the proposal, so the guidelines could actually be clubbed in five minutes. I have rarely seen such determination and unity in the European Council. This is a sign of how much we all value our Union and that it holds together and has a good result. I also appreciate that we were six parties in the Swedish Parliament who supported the text and the arrangement for this meeting. On matters as important as this, we must try to stay together. Only the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats now seem to want to see a weaker Europe in these negotiations. We know where the Swedish Democrats stand in EU policy, but it is still surprising, to say the least, that the Moderates are in favour of a policy that does not put either the EU or Sweden's interests first. Mr President, I would like to However much we regret that Britain has chosen to leave the EU, it is good that we can now, ten months after the referendum, get started with the exit negotiations. It is clear that the British side was not quite clear what they wanted with Brexit. Time has been needed to gather, and now we are all eager to move forward in orderly ways. The step-by-step negotiation model is supported by everyone. We must start by getting an orderly exit in order to start in the next phase of defining the framework for the long-term relationship. We shall do so as soon as we believe that we agree with the British on how to deal with exit issues. The European Council decides when it is time to take that step. We shall have a firm and fair stance in the negotiations, and we on the European Union's side have agreed to put the interests of our citizens, companies and Member States first. With its large market, the EU is extremely important for Sweden and for Swedish jobs. When we decided last Saturday on our common direction in this first part of the negotiations, I highlighted three concrete areas. Firstly, the conditions for EU citizens in the UK and the British in the EU – those who have made life decisions based on their right to settle wherever they want in the EU but are now affected by the British's choice to leave the Union. They may not be made into trays at the hearing. We have now decided that this is the first priority. Secondly, the British must pay for the commitments they have made as a member of the European Union, and this is also a way of protecting the interests of Swedish taxpayers. It was not just me who highlighted the financial settlement. There will certainly be no easy negotiation with the British; it will rarely be when it comes to money. Thirdly, we are already going to create good conditions for a broad and comprehensive trade relationship. We simply stand up for growth and free trade. The importance of common ground rules was stressed by several. An ambitious free trade agreement must contain mechanisms to protect against the UK acquiring competitive advantages through dumped taxes, environmental requirements or working conditions. This, of course, is what both our citizens and our companies have a right to expect. Mr President, I would like to There is a misconception among some that we would be looking to punish Britain for choosing to leave the EU. This is mentioned from time to time here at home, but perhaps mainly from the British side. I do not see any such tendencies. We all want a good relationship with Britain even after they have left the Union. But of course there must be a difference between being a member and not being a member. The British have chosen to leave the EU, and we deeply regret that. But it's their choice. In the negotiations before us, it goes without saying that we have a duty to put first the interests of the European Union and, for my part, also of Sweden. The EU is now looking forward to having constructive negotiations with the UK in a spirit of mutual respect. We are prepared to work hard with the British – we simply owe each other that. A key role will, of course, be played by the Commission's Chief Negotiator Michel Barnier. We have great confidence in him, and we were many who took the opportunity last Saturday to wish him well in the hard work ahead. Finally, Mr President, I should like to mention that the European Council also received information from its President, Donald Tusk, and from the President of the Commission, Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker, about the process of determining the new homes of the European Medicines Agency and the European Banking Authority. The next step will be to reach agreement at the European Council in June on the process ahead, and it is to be hoped that decisions can be taken in the autumn. We will of course continue to work from the Swedish side to ensure that the Agency ends up in Sweden. As I said, Mr President, it is most important to us that we continue to stick together and that Europe continues to stand firm for the future. We have many important issues to deliver in. So, Mr President, my report is ready.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-14	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the European Council report. It seems to have been an unusually smooth decision-making process this time. With regard to the process of negotiating with the United Kingdom, it is of the utmost importance that the EU states that are to negotiate with the United Kingdom are united, so I think it showed a good direction. The guidelines say one thing I would like to ask the Prime Minister about when it comes to how you view the process. After all, it will be very complicated during the time when the EU is negotiating with the UK on what the divorce procedure should be and how to proceed as quickly as possible with the longer-term negotiations on the future agreement. During this process, the EU's ongoing work should also take place; it should be business-as-usual. A distinction should also be made between the processes. The work is going on as usual, and the UK is a full member until the date when you are no longer a member. If I remember correctly, the guidelines say that you should keep this separate and that everything should go on as normal, with Britain at the table. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if there are any specific areas that the government sees as a need to keep an eye on a little extra. We know that the UK is a strong partner to Sweden on several important issues: environmental issues, climate issues, budget issues – not least – and a lot of other issues. There we have needed Britain as a strong driving force. They will not reasonably be the same strong party even in terms of business as usual, at a time when the EU also needs to deal with many other major issues, not least in the arena of foreign policy, but also, as we often discuss in the EU Council, in matters of migration and other matters. How does the Prime Minister view this process while Britain is still in it? Will it really be business as usual?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-19	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that it was very good that we could reach agreement so quickly. It was a clear signal that this was worked out and thought through; we could publish it after just under five minutes. There was an enormous strength in this unity. Of course, when it comes to the discussion about what the terms of divorce and the future relationship should be, the balance is really delicate and difficult. We are also very clear that as long as the United Kingdom is a member of the European Union, until the date of de facto departure, you are a real member, with all the obligations and rights. This means that in all the issues that Åsa Romson lists – budgetary issues, environmental issues and other issues – we will continue to push forward as usual. In this respect, there should be no difference. What will be important is to decide when it is the EU-28 and when it is the EU-27, so that the situation is made clear at which point. That is why the President of the European Council and all the Member States are careful that we do not deal with other issues when, for example, we sit in the EU-27 than those to be dealt with by the EU-27. There were some requests for the European Council on Saturday also to put other issues on the agenda when we were there, but the President of the European Council was very careful about us being the EU-27 and that the issues that it wanted to raise must be dealt with when the EU-28 is gathered, because the UK is also a full member. Although difficulties may arise from time to time, I believe that we will be able to keep up the momentum between the EU-27 and the EU-28. It's important.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-24	Mr President, I would like to It is good to hear that the President-in-Office of the Council was also clear about this during the meeting. I believe that this will be a difficult balance, especially when it comes to the fact that the European Union must also start discussing a future budget. It is partly dependent on how the UK exit agreement becomes. I guess we'll just have to follow those questions. What I would like to send along and also ask a further question on the area of foreign policy. There I see it as extremely important that the European Union can continue, as strongly as possible, to maintain a united line in all the different relations and foreign conflicts that are currently taking place both in Europe's vicinity and further away. There, of course, the active participation and active force of the United Kingdom is of the utmost importance. The follow-up question to the Prime Minister is therefore: how does Britain feel about foreign policy issues? I know there was reason to maybe talk about Macedonia when you saw her now.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-27	Mr President, I would like to The United Kingdom, as the rest of us have said, also sees the relationship with the European Union after leaving it as important from this perspective. This applies both to foreign policy and how we fight terrorism, organised crime and so on. Some believe that the UK has not played such a crucial role in EU cooperation in these areas. Of course, you can count in different ways how much you have contributed financially in different collaborations and so on. But my view and that of the Swedish Government is that it is important that we maintain this relationship with the UK. It is clear that, overall, we in Europe are stronger if the EU and a future UK outside the EU can also cooperate on foreign policy issues. I think I still want us to see that potential, quite simply.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-29	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report from this short but effective meeting! With regard to the actual process of the withdrawal negotiations, we believe that it is a reasonable process that is being pointed out and that the government has handled it well. We have no objection to what it looks like to be done. The difficult issues come as we approach the political substance of the EU's exit. Then there is a series of difficult balances to make. For the Left Party, it is important not to unnecessarily raise barriers between Sweden and the EU on the one hand and the UK on the other. We want to make life easy for Swedes living in the UK and for British people living in Sweden. We want there to continue to be an opportunity to live in each other's countries. It should be possible to work and shop without raising unnecessary obstacles – simply what you call a soft Brexit. I think that the government has been very careful to express its own political vision of what cooperation should look like in the future. I think it's missing. It would be necessary for the government to express itself more politically. I do not think it is good to leave this to a conservative government in the UK and to the European Commission, which has some other interests. Nor has Sweden participated in preparatory meetings held by some other countries. We are now seeing in the UK how this issue sails up as one of the major issues in the forthcoming elections, when Labour actually has a much more reasonable position, as I see it, which does not want to raise obstacles to the possibility of working in each other's countries or trading with each other. Labour is very clear about that, which is a difference from Tories. I have full respect for the fact that the Prime Minister does not want to anticipate the British's decision, but what is Sweden's position? Is it not better for Sweden to have the line that Labour has in the UK, so that we should not unnecessarily create obstacles to cooperation between our countries? This must, of course, be the task of the Swedish Government to formulate.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-36	Mr President, I would like to This is precisely the political substance in which the balance will be struck between the terms of withdrawal and the future relationship. That is why it is so important that we have a negotiation divided into two phases, with the possibility for the European Council to decide when to take a decision on phase 2, i.e. the framework negotiations on future relations. I do not share the view that it has been unclear. Already very early in the debate, both we and the other Member States have made it clear that the first thing that needs to be clarified is the conditions for citizens. As I said in the report, it is important that there is as little difference as possible for those who have now made life decisions. It's number one. But the interests of businesses and the Member States are also important. That is why we need to clarify the exit conditions in a good way. We've always told the United Kingdom – I think the previous government – that we want a good relationship, and we have a good relationship with the United Kingdom. That's why we're gonna keep working for it. As soon as the debate on the referendum came up, I had talks with the then Prime Minister, David Cameron, on this subject. Sweden and the United Kingdom are similar on a number of issues. We regret the result of the referendum, but we must, of course, respect it. We have said at an early stage to the British Government that we want to contribute as a pragmatic partner in the discussion, and if we can do something to make things as good as possible, then we should do so. We in the Swedish Government have no ambition to complicate this in any way. However, we must be clear that there is a difference between being a member and not being a member. As I said at the EU Council on Friday, there is no other association where you can be a member and a non-member and still have the same conditions. There is no such association. In that sense, there must be a difference.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-41	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I would have liked the Swedish government to be more offensive and to have pointed out possible solutions. This is a political issue. It is not an administrative matter. In the Nordic countries, we have two countries that have chosen not to be in the EU and three countries that are in the EU. We have excellent cooperation with each other despite the different choices we have made. One possibility could be to open the door to renegotiating the EEA agreement that the EU has with Norway and Iceland into a common solution, which could be improved compared to today and opened up to the UK. It would solve many of the practical problems that exist. Then we would get a Nordic model, where the Nordic countries, so to speak, have the same forms of cooperation as the British and where we know what we are getting into. Then it can change gradually. I miss this kind of vision or ideas on the part of the government on how to find a system where we can work together as good neighbours. There is a risk that this will be messed up by those who do not have an interest in this transparency. I would therefore like a more offensive attitude from the government.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-45	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect, I believe that the greatest risk of screwing up is precisely the discussion that Jonas Sjöstedt is currently having. Britain has been very clear from the beginning: they do not want a solution that someone else has. They want their own solution, a solution à la United Kingdom. Then it is reasonable for them to define what this solution is. We can philosophize about all sorts of solutions and different models and devote a lot of time to this, but so far the UK itself has not decided how they want it. They have decided that they do not want any of the solutions that are now in place; they want one of their own. Then it is reasonable that we conduct the discussion with them. Then you can do whatever philosophical theories you want, but this is the case. We are there, and Britain knows it. We have spoken to both the former Prime Minister and the current one. Sweden wants and will seek the best possible relationship between the EU and the UK and between Sweden and the UK.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-47	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the reporting back from the EU Brexit Summit. From the Swedish Democrats' side, we think it is now important that the membership fee for Sweden does not increase due to the UK's withdrawal from the Union. As is well known, Sweden is already one of the largest net contributors to the EU per capita. With Brexit, there is every reason to fear that our already sky-high fee may increase even further, not least given that the UK has also been a major net donor and that the EU has previously planned to bring in more Member States with a very poor economy. Rather, this is an excellent opportunity to reduce the EU's overall budget and, for example, the number of Members of the European Parliament – or why not EU agricultural aid and other areas where there is a high saving potential? Sweden as a Member State has the right of veto on this issue. If the political will only exists, the Prime Minister can ensure that Sweden does not draw the rivet once again. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: how will Stefan Löfven guarantee that Sweden's EU membership fee will not increase even further today with Brexit? Mr President, I would like to I would also like to mention a few words about the two phases discussed at the European Council. We in the Swedish Democrats do not understand why we should wait to negotiate with the UK on future trade agreements. We see no reason to shoot it in front of us. On the contrary, it is important for all those involved, especially for the EU if it is to be taken seriously, to start negotiations on free trade agreements with the United Kingdom. Ultimately, the EU needs the UK more than it needs the EU. To then go into open conflict with Britain we see as directly counterproductive. In such a situation, the UK will only turn to other markets.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-53	Mr President, I would like to The government has been clear from the start. The UK's withdrawal means that the EU gets the right mouth for lunch. Then you just have to cut back on your ambitions. We believe that Sweden should not have a higher fee in the forthcoming budget. However, this is a discussion that is taking place within the framework of the new multiannual budget. It is not included in this, so we will have to come back to that. But it gets a little strange when the Swedish Democrats are very concerned about this principle and at the same time say that one should sit down and negotiate with the UK for a perhaps favourable free trade agreement, before the UK has fulfilled its financial commitments. It rhymes a little bit. If I sat on that side and negotiated I would be very happy – no commitments are required, but I still get a very good deal. It is for this reason, among other reasons, that we should first discuss the terms of withdrawal – it is about, among other things, the fulfilment of the financial commitments that are already in the UK. Then we come to a time when the European Council finds that these discussions are sufficiently advanced. Not all details need to be fulfilled. It is about the principles of this. We'll feel it, now we're wearing it. It is only then that we enter the next negotiation. It is about the framework conditions for the future relationship. Those conditions will not be made in detail until the United Kingdom is actually a third country. It is only when it is not there that such an agreement can be concluded. You can't make an agreement with a member like that. The strategy of the two phases is extremely important. It is a question of ensuring that the UK honours its commitments. There's no volunteer in that.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-58	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the answers to my questions. However, I can see that it is in fact the case that the European Union needs Britain more than the United Kingdom needs the European Union. Britain can turn to other markets if we now want to punish the British in this way and wait for negotiations on free trade agreements. I and my party see it as directly counterproductive that the EU wants to oppose and that the Prime Minister of Sweden, too, in this way, wants to oppose and possibly wait for several years with the negotiations on free trade agreements. It is absolutely a process that can run parallel to the exit process, as we see it. Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven doesn't want to use his veto right. The Swedish Prime Minister does not want to use his veto right to ensure that Sweden does not receive a higher membership fee. I know very well that there will be negotiations on the new budget. But Sweden still has a veto right, and Stefan Löfven can, if he wants, guarantee that Sweden's membership fee will not increase.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-61	Mr President, I would like to After the UK has left the EU, the EU will consist of some 450 million inhabitants. It's the biggest market. No one agrees that the EU needs the UK more than the UK needs the EU. The Commission tells us what happens after the discussion on Brexit and when the US is now acting differently. Well, all the other continents turn to Europe and say: You are interesting. It is with you that we want to do, and we want to expand our contacts. In addition, I believe that this is natural when the head of Sweden's government sits there among the other EU-27 and is about to start such a negotiation. Then we shall first and foremost look at the interests of the European Union and Sweden. It's my duty. Let's not look at the other side in the first place. But we are also very clear that we want a good relationship with Britain. We're going to have a future relationship that's as good as possible. But my main interest is Sweden and the EU.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-63	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for the reporting back from the European Council on Brexit. It is good that the negotiations are now really getting started, although it is very sad that it should have to be this way. It will probably take a very long time to negotiate this, because it is certainly not simple things. I think the priorities put forward by the government are very good. It also shows the complexity. It is about our citizens who live in Britain. It is about the EU budget. It is about trade policy and, of course, about much more. 100 000 Swedes live in the UK. We really need to protect them. They have settled there under completely different premises. Now you can read and hear about completely absurd things. They have to fill in 85-page forms and more. Some people don't feel welcome in Britain at all anymore. I suppose other nations also have problems with this.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-67	Then there is the budget. Of course it will be a very important, difficult and tough negotiation. In the case of the UK, it is estimated that they are out of €60 billion in terms of pension payments, commitments in the EU budget and so on. Was there any more detailed discussion on how to resolve it?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-68	Mr President, I would like to First, it concerns the 100 000 Swedes in the UK and, vice versa, the British in other EU countries. There was no more detailed discussion. But Theresa May said at an early stage – and the rest of us have also said this: it is now a matter of protecting these citizens. I believe that the UK has more than 1 million citizens around the EU countries. Both, then, have an interest in ensuring that these people are not hit hard and that the conditions are as similar to those we have now as possible. They have, as I said, made life decisions. I have also heard of 80 – 85-page applications. There was nothing we discussed there. But we have simply based on what both have said. Both the EU-27 and the UK have the ambition that citizens should be able to live as safely as possible and have the best possible conditions, similar to those currently in place. As regards the financial commitments, no new assessments were made. It's a figure that's been used on one occasion. After that one has been a little more careful to use an exact number. It is, however, a matter of principle as such. This is what has already been done, as it were, about commitments in the budget or commitments that have not been implemented but which are still commitments – and it is about the pensions of officials. These shall be completed. It is part of this negotiation.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-71	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. It is clear that what has once been decided on the budget must still apply. The Swedish Government's aim is also to keep the EU membership fee down, and then, as I said, the British must stand up for what they themselves have been involved in deciding on. The conclusions also contain wordings on social dumping. I think the issue is important, and I understand that the European community has discussed it in depth and said that this must not lead to trying to compete with such things. Was there any further discussion on this? Is there a broad consensus in the EU community also on combating social dumping?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-73	Mr President, I would like to Yes, that unity is monumental. No one questions this. It is extremely important that, at the moment when we are building a new trade relationship in an agreement with a new third country, it must be based on the fact that we do not dump each other's conditions. For a free trade agreement would allow the other party to do this threatened Swedish interests as well as the interests of all Member States of the EU-27. That wouldn't be very wise. Here we need to get an agreement that is good but also based on the fact that there is no possibility of dumping.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-75	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your accounting. At the meeting of the EU Board, I mentioned the importance of our holding together in Sweden as well as in the EU-27. However, it is also important that the EU-27 and the United Kingdom broadly agree, partly because of all the people who are on both sides of the future borders in Europe, which I regret in itself. The risk is that many of these people will end up in limbo. I say this in the light of the fact that a meeting between Prime Minister May and Commission President Juncker was reported in both the Swedish and international press on 26 April. According to press reports, after the meeting, Juncker should have stated that the chances of reaching an agreement with the UK are less than 50%. In this context, my question to the Prime Minister is: was the working meeting between the Commission's leadership and the British Prime Minister in any way mentioned at the European Council? I am referring to this in view, not least, of all the families living on both sides of a future border in Europe.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-78	Mr President, I would like to As far as citizens are concerned, both the EU-27 and the UK have clearly stated that we should certainly do what we can to ensure that the conditions are as similar today as possible, and preferably completely unengraved conditions. I have also received media coverage and comments about that meeting presented to me. I cannot comment on this very point. On the other hand, various images of how far Britain has come in its thoughts about Brexit and what it actually means and what it does not. That discussion exists, but nobody said anything about there being, for example, a probability of less than 50% to reach an agreement. It wasn't even up. We have now established these guidelines, and the Commission will continue to work on the directives with proposals to be decided by the General Council. Then the negotiations will start. We are determined to work hard to achieve a good result, and that is what the discussions touched upon. It wasn't about not being able to do it.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-81	Mr President, I would like to I assume that the Prime Minister will continue to work for everything in this context, but especially for those people who are on both sides of a future border in Europe. Let me turn to the taxes, on the subject of § 20. I am of the opinion that taxation is a means of competition between companies and countries. Where is the limit when something becomes dumping? We can agree that there should be no dumping and unfair conditions. But where, in the Prime Minister's view, is the line on how different tax levels can be between countries, for example?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-83	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that we will first and foremost work for the citizens. It is laid down in these guidelines, and so it will be. I do not think anyone can say exactly where or at what percentage of dumping is going. It mentions taxes, environmental requirements and other factors that could be the subject of dumping by saying aggressively that it will significantly reduce, for example, taxes, environmental requirements or working conditions in order to achieve a competitive advantage. It was Britain itself that spoke of this as an opportunity in the new relationship. But all this and what the new relationship should look like can be discussed in the negotiations just like everything else, and this includes not having dumping as a means of competition.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-86	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the presentation of this meeting, which obviously went very quickly! Apparently, it took only a few minutes, even though 27 leaders would make a decision on a document. I know for myself what it's like when you're sitting with a document and everyone's going to be there to think about it. But here it was well prepared and well attended, and the unity that was shown was important. At the same time, the document states that much of the issue of Brexit raises concerns about the future. What's gonna happen? Will more countries want to follow? I heard Macron the other day had said that it could be a frexit if we don't do the cards right. That is why it is important that we get good agreements and that we see that the European Union can keep this unity. Peace and prosperity, I believe, have been the guiding principles of the European Union and must continue to be so. However, the conditions for Britain cannot be the same as before; it is still a question of cooperation that requires membership. But we need each other. We Christian Democrats are in favour of the guidelines adopted on citizens' issues, the financial settlement and the trade agreement. At the same time, we must keep the EU levy down. One issue that was perhaps partly the reason for Brexit was migration. It is not part of this agreement, but what does the Prime Minister think now needs to be done so that more countries will not leave the EU and we will have additional Brexit countries in Europe?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-90	Mr President, I would like to It was only the formal meeting that probably took five minutes, but then, of course, we discussed in general and questions were asked on the subject that I have presented to Parliament. I was asked what else needs to be done. We've had it up before. I believe that the EU has been seen enough as something for the market and for capital and too little for people. After all, it is the people who really make a difference. They are the ones who deliver work and prosperity. I believe, for example, that we need to deal with the issue of migration and have an EU-27 which is now pooling around the distribution of responsibilities so that everyone takes responsibility, including for receiving them. We shall be able to deal with security issues, such as combating terrorism in real terms and organised crime. There is also a need for a social dimension in which people feel more clearly that Europe is also for their future well-being. It is the EU basically because membership is a huge economic opportunity for Sweden. It gives you access to the market. Basically this is the case, but there are too few people who feel that the social dimension is involved. That is why I am pleased that so many are in favour of the social pillar that the Commission is proposing that we start working on. Then, too, individual citizens in the different countries see that the issues of access to work, education, security when you are out of work and so on are included. It is time for that step, that is to say that Europe is not only for business and capital but is for the citizens of all Member States.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-95	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I would like to continue to raise the issue of migration. If we are to succeed and everyone is to stick together in this agreement too, migration issues will be important. It is also about the security policy aspect. We're going to need Britain. They have a strong defence force. It would be interesting to hear whether the Prime Minister can comment on whether the Brexit negotiations have security policy dimensions. Everyone's going to work transparently. We're gonna stick together. All preliminaries must be made with all countries together. How to monitor that different countries do not hold their own negotiations with the UK? It is about keeping Europe together for a good agreement that everyone can enjoy.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-98	Mr President, I would like to I share the view on the issue of migration. There is no doubt that it will be important. As far as defence and other issues are concerned, the guidelines say that we would like to see cooperation in addition to trade issues. In this respect, I believe that defence and security issues are of great importance. The more we can do for the citizens, the better it is. I am absolutely convinced that the EU and the United Kingdom have a mutual interest in developing such issues too. How to monitor individual countries? It's hard to answer. I genuinely feel when we sit together in the EU-27 that everyone is clear that a successful outcome presupposes that we act in agreement. It's the master key. Nevertheless, I think I can say with good reason that it is the ambition of all countries to negotiate together. It will become clear quickly if anything else happens.
i-9HusBMxJnnYpV7HdojDd2a	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. The Prime Minister criticised us as moderates in the past for having believed, but now I want to be clear about saying that for us Moderates, it is important to give citizens and businesses both in Sweden and in other EU countries and in the UK early answers to what is going to happen. We must not forget that the UK is one of Sweden's largest exporting countries, and 100 000 Swedes live there. Then it is important that we get started with quick answers so that people, businesses and trade are told what is going to happen. Can you live, can you live, can you work, and can you act in a way that you do today? The conditions for this are parallel processes. Immediately after the summit, the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, held a press conference. He said about parallel processes that it will not happen. This would mean that citizens and businesses will not get early answers. How does the Prime Minister view Donald Tusk's statement? In connection with the summit, did the Prime Minister raise the question of the importance of early answers and thus also parallel processes so that people can actually know what will happen in their lives?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-105	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I did it with a similar question. We needed to talk at the table about this issue. We agree that we should begin a negotiation on the actual terms of exit. It includes, not least, the financial commitments that I have spoken about, but it is also, of course, a question of the citizens' conditions. What will it look like for all citizens living in the UK and in the EU-27? There will be no parallel negotiations on these issues at all times. Britain wanted to put everything into a single negotiation. It won't happen. However, phase 1 will begin. That's where the exit terms are included. When those negotiations are so far advanced that we know where they will end up at the level of principle – the European Council will decide when that happens – we can begin work on the framework conditions for the future relationship. In this sense, two negotiations can be started, but phase 2 will not start until the first phase has reached the point where we feel secure in that part. I am absolutely convinced that it is right to do so. We have no reason to drag this out in time, but there should be order. We should not put ourselves in an unnecessarily difficult situation, given the complexity of the matter. That is also what Donald Tusk has said, namely that for the sake of complexity, it is best to sort out as much as needs to be done at principle level in phase 1 before phase 2. That is the right way to go.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-109	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. But I still did not get an answer to the question of how the Prime Minister views Donald Tusk's statement that it will not happen. It's sharp. This would mean that citizens and businesses would be in danger of being unanswered for a long time. The other week, British Prime Minister Theresa May had a meeting with Commission President Juncker to discuss the Brexit negotiations. We have received signals that that meeting did not end well. Juncker said, among other things, that May lives on another planet. How does the Prime Minister see his role of being able to influence and talk to the other EU leaders about the importance not only of a united EU-27 but also of a clear consensus on the importance of having good future relations between the EU-27 and the UK?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-112	Mr President, I would like to It will not happen means that there will not be two completely parallel negotiations, i.e. starting both phases at the same time and ending them at the same time. That's what Donald Tusk means by it will not happen. We agree that we will begin phase one. There we begin discussions on the terms of exit. Once they have been so solidly shaped that they carry and we know what they will be about, we can begin phase 2. That decision will be borne by the European Council. The role of the Prime Minister is, of course, to be, together with everyone else, a pragmatic Member State. We shall express the importance of the UK and the EU having as good a relationship as possible, well aware that if you are not a member it will not be the same as when you are a member. Sweden's opinion has been clear throughout the journey. We want a relationship as good as possible with Britain.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-116	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your statement, Prime Minister. I think the statement took longer than the meeting itself. Well, that was time invested! The Liberals fully support the Swedish line, that is, the importance of a united Sweden and a united EU-27. It's not that hard right now, but it's as you know in the details the devil sits. But so far, we agree, including prioritising citizens' rights – just as the Prime Minister has explained in many of the exchanges of words. Perhaps the most interesting thing about the whole exchange of words has been that the leader of the Left Party is arguing for a Europe without barriers and more cooperation. I thank Mr Sjöstedt for that. I will frame the notes and put them on the wall. I stick to the meeting between Theresa May and Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker, which the English media have described as a train crash, disaster and so on. Clearly, May believes that there are no financial commitments to the EU and that the EU cannot impose them on the UK either. Mr Juncker's answer has been no trade deal, that is, no trade agreement, if it is the starting point. Now this is at a speculative stage, but I would still like to hear how likely the Prime Minister – who must have thought as much as the rest of us over this – thinks it is that we end up in this kind of dead end. If so, what is the Prime Minister's plan to push it forward?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-121	Mr President, I would like to I do not want to speculate too much on what is portrayed in the British media. But it is clear that we know that the discussion about what financial commitment there is will be tough. When it comes to money, that discussion becomes very tough. That can, if correctly stated, be a position on the part of the British Government: we will start here, then, where there is no commitment, we will see. I believe it is important for the British to honour their commitments. You also do that as a member. This is what is used in the budget, but it is also commitments that have not yet been committed but that have been promised in the meantime when you are a member of the European Union. Then I think it is natural to stand by your commitments. There is another speculation as to whether or not the move of the two authorities is the subject of negotiations. There the EU-27 is clear that this is not the subject of negotiations, because the UK is not a member of the EU, it is not reasonable to have EU authorities in the UK. Sure, there will be some of these issues and topics that are up for discussion, but I do not want to speculate on what the chances are for it to be or not to be. Instead, let us sit down in peace and quiet when the chief negotiator gets this mandate decided by the Council and simply starts negotiations. We both owe it to each other, the United Kingdom and the European Union, to sort this out in a good way for the citizens, but also, in the longer term, to ensure that we have a relationship that is good for the citizens. That's a win-win for both of us.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-126	Mr President, I would like to I will pick up the thread that concerns the European authorities as another issue. I must also say that, as a liberal, I am an extreme free trade friend and a friend of the European Union. Not only the Prime Minister but the Heads of Government often talk about trade agreements that must be good for their own nation and for Europe, and I think that is where some of the EU's problems lie. The Head of State says that it must be good for Sweden and for the EU. In fact, it is both – what is good for the EU is good for Sweden, and what is good for Sweden is good for the EU. I think that is the approach that needs to be maintained. The pharmaceutical and banking authorities have been up for discussion. I know that the Prime Minister was in my beautiful part of Sweden yesterday and among other things was asked about the location of the Agency – that there might have been a better chance for Sweden to get it if we collaborated with Denmark to place it in Skåne.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-129	Mr President, I would like to Then it's going to Sweden. I am Prime Minister of Sweden, and I will work hard to get it to Sweden. Our offer includes Stockholm – Uppsala area. There is work going on to prepare for that possibility. We believe that we have a really strong case there with strong clustering, good opportunities on the travel and accommodation area and hotel nights. Some 40,000 visits a year are expected to be made to such an authority. Then it wants everything to work for us, so it will be Sweden's bid. That will be a very strong offer. I also like the southern parts of Sweden very much, but in this case, imagine me working for Sweden and the Swedish Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products. Then it is Stockholm – Uppsala area that applies.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-132	Mr President, I would like to At the meeting of the EU Board on Friday, the Prime Minister made it clear that he will not travel any more, as it is not necessary to find alliances or push through prioritised Swedish issues. From a moderate point of view, we see great potential for Sweden to act more strategically to push for a reformed EU in terms of substance, but also in terms of the EU budget. Member Åsa Romson used a parable earlier that I think fits well in this regard: It is a bit of a divorce. I don't have any personal experience in this area, but at least I think that when there's a divorce, you should think a little bit about whether you really did everything right in front of it. The debate on the future of Europe is very much under way, and it is one of the main issues for all EU leaders. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether it is necessary not to travel any more or to participate in discussions in order to push through Swedish positions. Does the Prime Minister not see that there is something that Sweden can really contribute to at this time, when many are standing and velving? Does the Prime Minister not see that Sweden has an important role to play now, during this year when the future of Europe is in any sense determined?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-137	Mr President, I would like to I always forget the name of it, but a highly renowned European think tank says that Sweden is probably the second most influential country in the EU. The second most – you can imagine which one is number one. But it's not so bad, so of course Sweden has a lot to contribute with. So do we. We participate a lot. We participate in meetings with our Nordic and Baltic neighbours and in bilateral meetings with Italy, Spain, Germany and France. I was in Slovenia a few weeks ago and will go to Poland. So it is not that I will not travel any more. Of course I'm leaving. I travel to other countries and meet others. Most of them I meet at European Council meetings. Sweden has a lot to contribute. We do so in a good spirit of consensus with the others and will continue to do so. The question was how much more I would travel. Then I say this: It's not the criticism I get – that I travel too little. I will travel in Sweden, in the EU and outside the EU because it provides good opportunities for direct contacts and to learn about other people's environments, experiences and history. It is very good for our ability to influence.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-142	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for that answer. I agree that Sweden has an important role to play. I think that Sweden should continue to push forward in a strategic spirit right now when it is blowing rather cold within the Union. We have 27 Member States that remain and do some different analyses of what is to come. I still think that for the Swedish part there is a great chance and opportunity to be a clear voice by the Swedish Prime Minister acting unitedly and pointing out where we are going when others are just trying to use this process for their own purposes. As the Prime Minister said, we are influential in Europe, and I think we should use that platform as best we can. The EU is our closest cooperation agency, and there we can influence much more than, for example, when we are a single little voice in the UN.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-145	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that! We're not just gonna try; we're gonna do it. We are. We are very much involved, and we are active. I think that is why we are regarded as the second most influential country in the European Union. It's not a bad position, and we're gonna keep it. We're constructive. We want to contribute and find solutions. We are doing so in this case at a very early stage, as I said in another correspondence here when this had happened. Just as it was about to happen with the referendum, we had a very good dialogue with the then English Government about what Sweden can do and contribute by being a pragmatist in the negotiations. We already do, and we intend to continue to do so. I do not agree that others are just talking about their own purposes. It's not really like that. It is there too, but many countries see the advantage of this cooperation. I think that's why we came to the fore, to decisions, so quickly with these guidelines.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-148	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for the report, but also note in this context that, just as we have the major EU decisions to make, when we have to join forces, we always succeed in creating a broad majority in the Swedish Parliament. I think that is a good thing. I must also say that sometimes you get déjà vu experiences when you work with politics. I had such a déjà vu experience now. The last time we discussed whether to have an EU agency in Sweden was just this discussion about Copenhagen and Skåne. Now it is again. It's amazing, isn't it? Mr President, I would like to When the Prime Minister, me and others here were of age, we had a war in Europe: the war in Northern Ireland between large parts of the British kingdom and Catholics in Northern Ireland. I was very concerned that it would go back to that order again. There is reason to consider how this is to be avoided. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: how can we ensure that we do not have such a cruel terrorist war as that which lasted not for one or two years, but for almost a few decades? Finally, I have another question. It will be difficult to negotiate for the reason that it is a huge regulatory framework in which every small paragraph must be touched. How does the Prime Minister think this will succeed in the long run? It is about the difficult negotiating work that needs to be started. Were there any thoughts about this at the summit?
i-eu5VRWHKw71hpsneMNNaQ	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to Ireland and Northern Ireland, there are a few words – one on Good Friday Agreement in the guidelines themselves and then an additional statement that we have adopted in connection with the meeting, where we say: ..................................................... Now there is much to be said for this to take time. It is clear that it is not only the action of the European Union that will determine whether we can maintain peace, so that there will be no unrest in Ireland. There are other things that matter too, but we believe that this is something that the Irish themselves have asked of the EU-27. They wished and had it catered. Ireland's leader, Enda Kenny, is satisfied with the writings, and we have come as far as we can at this stage. But there's more to do. As far as the results are concerned, it is difficult to speculate. As I have said before, there will be extremely complex negotiations. There is a lot at stake, but with the guidelines and directives that will be adopted later, there is a basis for one, as I judge it, skilful and experienced negotiator, namely Barnier. We need to give him and his team the best possible support. It will be difficult; there is no doubt about that. But now this is going to begin and rose ashore, and then we have to put all the pieces together.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-155	Mr President, I would like to Mr Barnier was a Trade Commissioner in the past and has a great deal of experience in negotiations. In this respect, I share the Prime Minister's view. I have had the privilege of working with several areas of European affairs, and there are huge regulations in every small area. I have usually worked on the big issues, but there are huge regulations in the small areas too, where the EU may not even have full competence. I therefore think that we need to think about this properly. What is to be done, and what will happen to the regulatory framework for, for example, financial market issues, which I currently have the privilege of working with? What will happen to the major competition law issues? I find this interesting.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-157	Mr President, I would like to I share that view. I can't speculate. There will be an incredible amount of substances in themselves, each one, complex. This suggests that we need to have an orderly negotiating structure, and that is why, in my opinion, these phases are absolutely right. I think we can go for phase one if we do what we've done now. Then, of course, all these issues and subjects will be monitored and the underlying regulatory framework implemented. That is why there is a wording in the guidelines on what cannot be foreseen. There will be such situations even after the divorce: Wow, that's not what we thought about-- how do we deal with it? It is important to have both suspenders and belt.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-159	Mr President, I would like to When you get far down the list of speakers, the wise things have been said, but I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the answers I have received on my questions. First of all, I would like to agree with the wise idea of Tina Acketoft – I would like to congratulate Jonas Sjöstedt on having come to an EU-positive position, which I hope will cover the whole Left Party in the future. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for upholding the principles of peace in Roskilde when it comes to who decides what. A Swedish Prime Minister will of course get an authority to Sweden and not to any other country, so thank you for that! I want two brief things clarified so that I understand the process and what is happening. In the past, the Prime Minister has made it clear that, as early as this autumn, we will be able to take decisions in principle on the future conditions for EU citizens, i.e. the 100 000 Swedes and all the British that exist in different countries. Now it floats a little bit. What's going on? Is there any possibility of reaching such a decision already this autumn? That's my first question. It's supposed to be short. The second question is: what meetings does the Prime Minister have with partners that we see as strategic, such as Denmark, Ireland and the Netherlands, for example in terms of conducting parallel processes? When can we get a message for all the Swedes in the UK? How do we select partners, and how do pre-meetings work with them?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-164	Mr President, I would like to Phase one will begin in June when the elections in the UK are completed. The negotiations will then begin on the exit conditions themselves, including what will apply to citizens. Then it is intended to go so far at the level of principle with regard to the main principles of this that phase two can begin. That's where the details come in. I think we both know the complexity of negotiating, for example, pension systems. In all the details it will take a little longer, but we shall be so far ahead that we can say: now it is as much as we think it can be for citizens, but there are a number of things to be made clear. We are therefore talking about autumn as a first step in terms of the principles of this. As I have said before, we have a number of different meetings. In these negotiations, I think it is important that we really stick to the EU-27. We had some pre-meetings with like-mind when it comes to negotiations with Turkey on migration issues. We were a group of about 15 countries that met. But here I think it is important that we stick to the EU-27 for real. However, there will then be discussions on various occasions – bilateral or other – on this matter, but I think it is extremely important that we always bring it back to the EU-27 so that we do not start to split up. One form of pre-meeting that we always have is with the Nordic and Baltic countries. We meet about half an hour before the European Council and go through the agenda and see if there is something we have a problem with or anyone wants support for. They will always be there, but then there will be other bilateral and sometimes multilateral meetings. However, I think that the main principle is always to bring the reasoning back to the EU-27.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-168	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. With regard to the first question about the Swedes in the UK, I think it is important to give a message as soon as possible and not make any promises that we can then not fulfil in terms of time. This is, if not, vital, so at least very crucial for their professional future and place of residence. As far as the second question on whom to meet is concerned, the Prime Minister, like me, has dealt with other things before we ended up here. We have worked with negotiating delegations, and we know that in such a way there will always be groupings. In this case, I think it would be particularly useful if the Prime Minister could tell us how things are going in cooperation with those close to us, such as Denmark, Ireland and the Netherlands.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-171	Mr President, I would like to I have absolutely nothing against such cooperation. It is about Denmark, the Netherlands, but also Germany, which is not an unimportant player. Cooperation with countries in southern Europe is also important. It's been my ambition the whole time. It is an experience from my time in the trade union world and in discussions between employers and unions to not only look at those who are just around you but also look a little further away. We have good relations with other countries further down in Europe. It is my ambition to have this network of contacts and these lines of discussion open so that we can have the maximum impact. However, on this very issue of the negotiation, we must always bring this back to the EU-27, so that we do not gradually begin to undermine it. Then I think we have a really dangerous journey ahead of us.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-173	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me if I and the government will present some new proposals for legislation in 2017 in order to facilitate hunting for people with disabilities. Women and men with disabilities should have the opportunity to work in everyday life on as equal terms as possible in terms of participation and accessibility. For me, this is an important issue. The Government Office therefore continues to prepare for the possibility of facilitating the hunting of people with disabilities. I am committed to this issue and look forward to the outcome.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-176	Mr President, I would like to Hunting and game conservation is an important opportunity for recreation and outdoor life in Sweden, while increasing understanding of animals and nature and how they interact. A Swedish model for hunting policy, where civil society through the Swedish Hunter Association cooperates with the relevant authorities, is in several ways successful. Through voluntary action by hunters, we have viable game tribes throughout the country. The sustainable predator policy ensures that our five large predators have favourable conservation status. This is an important and welcome step forward. But Swedish hunting is unfortunately not easily accessible to everyone. Hunters with disabilities often need to have an engine driven vehicle to make their way in the terrain. It's often a four-wheeler. In almost all cases, exemption from the cross-country driving law and the hunting regulation is required to use such a vehicle. This system of exemptions arranged by the County Administrative Board is quite time-consuming and quite costly. The duration of proceedings is long – often more than four weeks – and could be used for more priority cases, for example, by extending the duration of each derogation. Another problem experienced by many disabled hunters is that it is an unreasonable treatment that is imposed when you have to have several different permits for different places and also have to carry the physical condition everywhere to be able to show it to the police. This issue, which is important to Huntsverige, has been highlighted by many, including our Swedish Minister for Rural Development, Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. In December 2015, the Minister promised that a proposal for a change of law would be placed on Parliament's table during the year. But it didn't really happen that way. It was a welcome message when it came, because the ambition of the government should be for all people regardless of disability or not to be able to participate as much as possible in all parts of society. However, no such amendment or effective clarification of the current legislation has been presented and not implemented. The problem of different interpretations from different county boards remains. I know that it is difficult to reach agreement within the government with the Green Party on issues relating to hunting and game conservation. But given that the Government has already promised that this is a priority, and given that there is a broad consensus in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture and in the Swedish Parliament to implement this, I would still like to take the opportunity to ask Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht : Will this be put on the table of Parliament during this parliamentary term? What, in fact, is taking so much while we are in agreement?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-183	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Jesper Skalberg Karlsson is impatient. I am also impatient and want to take this issue forward because, as Minister for Rural Affairs, I am committed to hunting and game management. I also defend that disabled people should have access to society as much as possible. It is about that disabled people should of course be able to visit various public premises. But it is also about them being able to take part in culture and leisure activities, and hunting is an important leisure activity that the disabled should also be able to take part in. You can now, as a wheelchair user, hunt from motor vehicles in the case of moose, wild boar, doggy deer and deer, provided that the engine is switched off at the time of the hunt. What we are now discussing is the possibility of hunting wild birds and mammals protected by the Habitats Directives. We are now discussing this issue and looking at how we can adapt Swedish rules in hunting legislation to the EU Nature Conservation Directive to see what reliefs we can make. As Jesper Skalberg Karlsson here mentions, several legislations are concerned, and this is a rather complex matter. Therefore, the Government has planned to commission the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to propose a modernisation of the cross-country driving legislation. This task also includes reviewing the ability of people with permanent disabilities to hunt.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-187	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Rural Affairs, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, for his reply. As the Government mentions, it is now possible to use motor vehicles if you have exemptions when hunting elk, for example. However, many disabled people receive a derogation only for one transfer a day. You have a sow, and once you've hunted this seed, the hunt for the day is over. You might have to hunt for an hour, and then you just have to go home. It's very boring. It is worth considering whether this is appropriate. In addition to the fact that you often have the restriction of only one movement a day, it may also be that you can only carry out 15 movements of motor vehicles per year. In addition to making only these 15 movements, you must also have your own little tour table for the movements you intend to make before you go out. It should be carried throughout the hunt, so that nature keepers and police can read it. In addition, you must not always cross an antland or a small stream if it does not have a bridge. I have read a little about this subject before this debate, but I will admit that this is not a subject where I am omniscient. As the Government says, it's quite complicated matter. There are different legislations that you want to poke in. At Svensk Hunt I read about a guy named Alexander Eriksson, who is wheelchair-borne after a spinal cord injury that he got in a serious traffic accident. For him, it's about just being able to hunt beaver and maybe hare. It's strange that you can't get to the finish with those species when in some sense you've come to the finish with the moose hunt. The elk is a much larger animal. I would like to highlight two particular quotations in the article. One comes from the County Administrative Board itself, which has commented on an appeal from Alexander Eriksson after he has received a decision. It is written that the County Administrative Board believes that hunting legislation should be reviewed with regard to the equal rights of wheelchair users to small game hunting. I think that is a welcome message. I would also like to mention Alexander's last quote in the article, namely: I find that very telling in terms of this very complex matter. When it comes to a mission to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, I think it is welcome. I think it is good if the issue can continue to be prepared in the Government Office and perhaps prioritised there and at the Ministry of Industry. Even before you come to cases of complicated legislative changes, you can try to talk to the county boards that are problematic. Some county boards today have a perfectly good work based on the legislation the Riksdag has put on their table, but the county boards in Västerbotten and Norrbotten, for example, do completely different interpretations than the other county boards in the country. It is therefore possible, during a transitional period, to clarify to these county administrative boards how this is actually to be done, before coming to an end with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's review. It is perhaps not a task that lies primarily with the Government itself, because it would be ministerial government, but one can at least order it or put it in a regulatory letter to the responsible authorities – just clarifying what is in force in the current legislation.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-195	Mr President, I would like to As far as hunting is concerned, I see it as a question of rights and a question of justice for the disabled. That's why I'm just as keen as you to get new legislation in place, Jesper. However, as you say, the question is very complex. It is not simple, but should be adapted to EU level, where several different legislations are concerned. That is why it also takes time; that is unfortunately the case. The question is not new either, really. The League of Hunters highlighted this issue already in 2010. I became responsible for hunting at the end of 2014, i.e. after about four years. I still have to ask you, Jesper, why was nothing done before?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-197	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its short answer. I can only say, as a general comment on the intervention of the Government, that it is clear that I wish the Alliance had done more during its time in power. This applies to everything from job tax deductions to the labour market and the housing market. I believe that there was the possibility of more far-reaching reforms than we might have achieved in the last four years. I see no problem in acknowledging that in this House. On this issue and the fact that it takes time because it is complicated, I hope that the Government can have a little more ambition and show a little more commitment than just saying it is an old issue. There are still a number of hundreds of people working at the Government Office and the Ministry of Enterprise, and they are highly competent people. I think you should be honest about that. If there is a will from politics and broad support in the Swedish parliament and if the Government feels that he has support both from the parties and from Jägarsverige, it should be possible to get to the finish with this issue during his term of office. This is to be seen in the lukewarm view of the fact that Minister Sven ‐ Erik Bucht will soon have had four years. There is only one year left of the term of office, and if you do not see the light in the tunnel, perhaps you will not see it at all. I would like to say that hunting and game conservation are important. It is important for recreation and outdoor life. For some it is an interest, for some it is a passion and for some it is a profession. I think it's good that people come out into the land, and I think it's good that it increases the understanding of how animals and nature interact. I would like the Government and the Government to open the door to more groups in any case, and that would be a priority for the disabled. As I said, this is an old question, but perhaps now is the time for us to get to the finish.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-202	Mr President, I would like to I've been in business for two and a half years, Jesper. We have handled and arranged many hunting issues during these two and a half years, not least the moose hunt and the mountain hunt. I want to make a correction, Jesper: No condition is needed to hunt moose, boar, dovhjort and deer from motor vehicles if you have a disability. In January 2009, Sweden adopted the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and this is an important issue. It is a question of rights, and when I hear what Jesper says, it becomes clear that we agree on this issue. In any case, there is no disagreement between our parties on this issue. In fact, politics should have done something a long time earlier. I may well have some self-criticism in the fact that the Jägar eförbundet brought this up in 2010. Then we were in opposition, and we should probably have pushed the Alliance Government very hard to get it to grips with the issue. Unfortunately, the alliance government did nothing during the four years, and so it is. But okay-- now the question is here, and I'm dealing with it. It's a complex issue. I will do my utmost to bring about a change in the matter.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-205	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me what measures I will work for will be included in the proposed platform. The question also applies to what consequences at national and Union level I consider possible as a result of the platform's introduction. The interpellation also raises the question of how Sweden ensures important alliances within the Agriculture and Fisheries Council after Brexit. For over two years Sweden has been working closely together on animal welfare issues within the EU. Cooperation with Denmark, the Netherlands, Germany and for some time also with Belgium has been successful. A concrete result is that the Commission has decided in January this year to set up an EU Animal Welfare Platform. The platform is an initiative from us and has received the support of a clear majority of Member States and stakeholders. The purpose of the platform is to contribute to the strengthening of animal welfare. This will be done, inter alia, by facilitating communication and the exchange of experience and best practices between stakeholders. The platform will consist of about 75 people. They shall represent the competent authorities, different economic sectors and civil society. In addition, independent scientific experts will be included in the platform. A first meeting of the platform is scheduled for 6 June this year. As far as animal welfare at European level is concerned, I think it is of the utmost importance that we work together. Animal welfare in the EU needs to be strengthened, and we need to move forward on a broad front and make use of the whole toolbox. The platform will focus on the issue and raise awareness of the importance of good animal welfare. It is valuable and necessary to share each other's experiences. The platform will increase the possibility of cooperation between different actors. It is important to make use of the existing good forces and to disseminate information on successful initiatives and cooperation, whether at local, regional, national or EU level. I have proposed a number of concrete issues for the platform's work. Examples of this are work aimed at ending tail hives of pigs, beak trimming of poultry and undecided castration of piglets. Long animal transport is another key issue. Another important area is the development of systems for communicating the added value of animal husbandry to consumers. We have also taken steps to strengthen animal welfare cooperation within the country. To this end, the Ministry of Industry has invited stakeholders from authorities, academia, industry and relevant organisations active in the EU arena to a round table next week. The aim is for us to give extra weight to the Swedish voice within the EU by working together. Work with like-minded Member States in the field of animal welfare is well established and constantly evolving, while the ambition is to expand this circle all the time. The Swedish Government is working continuously and actively to extend and deepen EU cooperation in various areas, including animal welfare. Sweden has a good reputation and credibility in relation to animal welfare issues within the EU community. This shows at least the ongoing cooperation leading up to the creation of a platform for animal welfare. The formal withdrawal negotiations for the United Kingdom started on 29 March 2017. In many areas, the EU and Sweden will need to cooperate well with the UK even when it is outside the EU.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-214	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its intervention. Before we proceed with this interpellation, I would like to say something about the previous speech on hunting, to which I was unfortunately unable to respond. It is true that the government has come to an end with certain hunting issues during its term of office, but when Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht is in place and is so humble, I can take this opportunity to say that it is with mixed success that these hunting issues have been brought to an end. Enough about this – now is the time to talk about this interpellation, which concerns Swedish animal welfare and a possible EU animal welfare platform. I would like to begin by saying that Swedish animal welfare is extensive and of a high level. The consumer who chooses Swedish in the shelf or in the counter can feel confident that they have chosen sustainably produced food, and this applies whether you choose conventional food or organically grown food. This is important at the outset. At EU level, for lack of other words, there is a floor for animal welfare, and Sweden is quite high above this floor. Sometimes it is said that Sweden is a little too high above it and that we get a competitive disadvantage, because our food simply becomes more expensive. It is clear that it will cost more if we have demands for pigs to have a bigger box than in other countries, especially as we live in a country with high land and property prices, which plays a role in a competitive situation. As far as the future is concerned, I am convinced that the so-called European floor must be raised in the long term, which is also why I put this interpellation. Today's level of Swedish animal protection is good, and the shortcomings are not about regulations but about supervision. However, when raising the level of animal protection in the Union, I think we need to look at monitoring. The long animal transport, which was highlighted by several parties last summer, was simply not legal – not even with this European floor. It is therefore to be welcomed that the Government is taking the initiative on this EU platform. It has the potential to be something really good. I would also like to say that I am impressed by which countries are included – these are not countries that I typically associate with a high level of animal protection. I would therefore like to ask Mr Bucht how he views the future of this platform. Is this going to be a discussion forum, or does it get any legal status? How are the negotiations going with countries that may wish to join? The interpellation response mentions that there are good discussions with several countries – will this be formalised in any way? How does the Government ensure that good alliances are being built now that an important ally of EU cooperation, in the form of the UK, chooses to leave the EU? What lessons — if any — can be drawn from this?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-225	Mr President, I would like to It is a great success for Sweden that we have got this platform in place. It is a work that has been carried out intensively over the two and a half years that I have been a minister, and a great deal of effort has been put into getting to grips with this issue. Since Sweden entered the EU in the 1990s, we have been talking about the importance of animal welfare within the Union, but perhaps we have not really been heard until the last few years. This is a great thing to strengthen animal welfare throughout the EU, and it is also an arena for collaboration. The proposal received strong support in the EU. It obtained a broad majority, and that is precisely why, as I see it, it will be a very important instrument with a high status. This is not something that will be neglected by the EU countries. We have had high ambitions when we have worked on our national strategy in this area. We have had the ambition not only to work within Sweden but also to carry out the work and strengthen animal welfare in the EU, which we have been clear about there too. We have proposed concrete measures to the Commission. It's a very big list. I will not list them all, but the proposals concern, among other things, pet trade, animal transport, castration of piglets, tail hives and beak trimming. Animal transport is a very important part, as mentioned by Jesper Skalberg Karlsson. The EU Chief Veterinary Officers have identified the problems of animal transport and forwarded the information to the Commission, which has received a number of proposals for measures to be taken in connection with this platform. I have also raised the issue of animal transport at a previous ministerial meeting.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-231	Mr President, I would like to Let us take the hilling of pigs, as the Government itself mentioned, as a symbolic and good example of animal welfare and what it really costs. In some countries you have very small boxes with many pigs in them. This causes the pigs to get crowded and stressed, so much so that they bite off the tail of their siblings. Many solve this by cupping the tail so that there is nothing to bite off. This allows you to have more pigs in smaller space. The pigs suffer more but take less space. Sweden has requirements for larger boxes than other countries, which means that more square meters of barn are needed. If we were to fully harmonise our animal law rules with the EU, we would still have some competitive disadvantages, precisely because we already have high land and property prices in Sweden. That part remains, and as long as we do not radically change our agricultural tax policy and our ownership policy, Swedish products will cost at least a little more than others. With regard to the new European platform and to do things in Union format, I would like to say that the agreements that have been concluded and the rules that we have in the Union must be followed by everyone. I do not think that the problem in the long term is that the EU will not dare to pass animal welfare laws, but rather that the problem is that we have some southern European friends who interpret these laws quite freely and perhaps do not implement things that the rest of us here in the Nordic countries do. I do not believe that it is desirable or that there is any added value in us running ahead blindly to the point where we phase out our food production and instead import all food from those who are not doing well. The whole floor needs to be moved up before we start thinking about trying to reach the roof. As we operate in an EU market, I would say that there is absolutely added value in Swedish food, but it is quite difficult to get paid for this added value. Here one can be honest with the fact that Swedish food producers today do not always get what their products are really worth. It is doubtful whether we in Sweden should continue with our own gold-plating and contribute to adding new charges to the Swedish food producers' burdens. Then a reasonable follow-up question – when we talk about new initiatives at EU level and things coming from above – is whether this EU platform will affect Swedish agriculture and Swedish food producers. Can the Government guarantee that this will not lead to new regulatory problems? Is it, as it were, a forum for new rules for us too, or is it more of a discussion group for best practice? This would be good to sort out.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-239	Mr President, I would like to I want to make it clear that it is not a question of impairing Swedish animal welfare or animal health. It is about improving it at European level. We are the world leader in this area. We are not going to get worse, but we are going to influence Europe to get better. There is a great popular support for these issues throughout the Union. The Commission is making its Euro barometers, which show a dramatic change of attitude towards animal welfare in the EU. 82% believe that the animals of agriculture should have stronger protection. 59% say that they are willing to pay more for the products if they have good animal welfare. This is also true of our Swedish products and foodstuffs. The Swedish label has become a formidable success. People are asking for them, even though they may cost a little more, because you know what you get. You connect food with health. Then I agree that there are countries that do not really comply with existing legislation. That is also something I have pointed out at ministerial meetings. It is not possible to introduce legislation prohibiting tail hives on pigs which some countries are then careless to comply with. Then there must be a means of sanction. We are continuing work with like-minded countries such as Denmark, the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium on, for example, welfare for pigs and animal welfare rules for pullets. We also work closely with these countries at the level of officials, and we will continue to do so. This week is a European delegation on study visits here to watch Swedish pig farming, and the Germans are interested in coming here to study pig castration during stunning. So there is a great deal of interest in these issues from many other countries, which may not have existed before. In recent years we have raised awareness in many other countries and received a very good response.
i-YbTPnUuVqkmkbUVya1kgws	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Then I still interpret the Government as saying that this platform will not mean that any Swedish rules or laws need to be rewritten, but rather that it is about bringing the EU standard up to the Swedish level. There will therefore be no change for Swedish agriculture or for Swedish food production. If so, it would be welcome. In this context, I would like to say that it is important for supervision throughout the Union to step up a bit, because, as I said, it is not always followed even the current legislation. Perhaps the problem is mainly supervision and not the regulatory framework. It is important to have with you when raising the bar. I would like to conclude by thanking you for the debate and stating that Swedish animal welfare is of high quality. The consumer who chooses Swedish in the store can feel confident that you choose sustainable food, regardless of whether you choose conventional or organic. That is something we should protect and develop. I think that in future we should also be honest about environmental and production objectives being equal. It won't be good if it lines too much one way or the other. If we do not have that balance, I think we can lose both the opportunity to achieve the environmental quality objective of open landscapes and important jobs in green industries. That is why I hope that the Government and the Government will pool the courage and strength to pursue an ambitious line in the proposed EU platform. It can be really good if it is done the right way. But with MP in the government there is a concern that it will end up on edge or completely derail. Let's see if there are any more interpellation debates. I think it's going to be. I thank you for that today.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-251	Mr President, I would like to The EU platform is very important for us to be able to raise animal welfare throughout the EU. It is also important that we exchange experiences with each other. Nevertheless, today we are 28 but almost 27 countries, and there are many different experiences there. This is a very good arena for cooperation and cooperation. I am convinced that we can learn from each other. I am also convinced that even we in Sweden can learn something from someone else, so I do not think that it should be completely excluded that there can be legislative changes. I don't want to go that far, because we still don't really know what it looks like. But I think it is very important that we work together on these issues. It is primarily about increasing animal welfare in the EU where they are after us. Sweden is a world leader. Another reform in the field of animal welfare is the establishment of a reference centre for animal welfare. There I hope that SLU will be able to take a position in a good way. There is a great deal of interest from the Commission in this matter, and it is addressed to Sweden. Let me conclude by reminding you that the work on strengthening animal welfare in the EU is an important part of the national food strategy as well, and the platform is a significant step along this path. To Mr Jesper: Thank you for a good debate on an important area such as animal welfare.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-256	Mr President, I would like to I thank Erik Andersson for the interpellation. Erik Andersson has asked me what measures I intend to take to prevent outdated standards from gaining a foothold and to ensure that equality also prevails in the suburbs. I have recently replied to a similar interpellation from Elisabeth Svantesson and would therefore like to remind you of the answer I gave at the time. The government takes seriously information that women's opportunities are limited and that women report that they cannot move freely in the public space. It is a violation of the personal safety and physical integrity of the victims. Out-of-date norms and inequalities in certain residential areas are often linked to honorary standards and honour-related repression, which primarily affects girls and women, but also boys and men and particularly LGBTQ people. The Government's budget proposal for 2017 makes it clear that, among other things, a gender perspective is needed to solve the challenges of segregation. The government has so far implemented comprehensive measures that can eventually contribute to reduced segregation, such as grants to municipalities and other efforts to strengthen schools, health care, social services and the police and to reduce unemployment. The Employment Service has also recently presented, on behalf of the Government, an action plan for more foreign-born women to be employed in work or studies. In order to further strengthen the long-term and preventive efforts to tackle segregation problems, the Government decided on 23 March this year to instruct a special investigator to prepare and form a new authority – the Delegation against segregation. The task of the Authority shall be to contribute to lifting socially vulnerable areas and breaking segregation mechanisms structurally. The directives state that gender equality must be consistently taken into account in the work and that honour-related violence and repression must be countered. The delegation is part of a long-term reform programme for the reduction of segregation. The programme covers the period 2017 – 2025. The government has also decided on a ten-year national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women, including honour-related violence and repression. The strategy shows that the Government intends to strengthen the work against honour-related violence, including preventive measures aimed at young men living in an honorary context. The strategy also stresses the need to continue to develop violence prevention work with a focus on masculinity standards. In addition, the National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with, among other things, carrying out a national survey of honour-related violence and repression and investigating the extent to which vulnerable persons have received support and assistance. In addition, the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society has a mission, in collaboration with the national web-based youth reception Umo, to carry out information actions on health and gender equality for newly arrived and asylum seekers children and young people aged 13 to 20 linked to the new target group-specific info Youmo Youma. The Government has also implemented efforts to strengthen the gender perspective in social information for asylum seekers and persons who have been granted a residence permit but who remain in the Finnish Immigration Service's housing facilities. In accordance with the Regulation(2016:1363) on the County Administrative Board's mission regarding interventions for asylum seekers and certain newly arrived immigrants, the County Administrative Boards must work to ensure that there are actions that promote, among other things, knowledge of Swedish society and the Swedish labour market. In this work, the county administrative boards will work to ensure that women and men can participate in actions on equal terms and to the same extent. The Government has also decided on measures to combat gender segregation in education, including by commissioning the National Board of Education to develop work on the school's core values and to clarify the school's mission to counteract traditional gender patterns, to portray and convey values such as equality between women and men, and to actively and consciously promote their equal rights and opportunities. There is a great deal of commitment among women in suburbs and many active in associations that are already working to strengthen the position of girls and women. It is important to emphasise that women in the suburbs are themselves active on these issues and that we support their work. In the light of the efforts that have been mentioned here, I would like to emphasise that I and the Government believe that it is still important to protect the position and rights of women and children throughout Sweden.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-266	Mr President, I would like to I have written this interpellation because I am concerned about developments in Sweden, not least in some of our suburbs. I am concerned about the existing oppression of women. I am also very concerned about the criminality that is spreading. I know Elisabeth Svantesson asked a similar question, but this question is worth discussing all the time. Although I received a used answer, as I understood it, it is important that we discuss this issue every day. It is always possible to discuss what was done 30, 10 or 5 years ago, but I am more interested in what we are going to do today. I received a detailed reply from the Government, but I believe that a little more concrete action is needed. I've been talking to residents, entrepreneurs, the police and the municipality, and it's not a beautiful picture that emerges. In TV4's Cold Facts programme, we could see how the problems were confirmed. We saw, for example, how girls and boys were systematically separated when they were on a school bus. What signal does it give to these children? School is important in teaching children about democracy and everyone's equal value. If the school fails to do so, it should not continue to operate. This is where the school inspectorate needs to be clearer. It is important that the civil servants working in the state and the municipality stand firm and dare to talk about what applies and do not accept systematic gender apartheid, for example in sport. In the program we could also see a woman who could not walk dressed as she wanted. She was accused of being dressed in a wrong way, and there was a stone's throw at her home. That is totally unacceptable. Since I live in Stockholm County, I have visited many Stockholm suburbs, and I believe that we must take a strong stance on several levels if we are to succeed in reversing this development. First of all, we need to have a police officer present. We must also be clear about what applies in Sweden. Otherwise, these problems will continue generation after generation, and then we have won nothing with the equality struggle that has been so important to our country. We also have the problem of crime. We have drug sales 24 hours a day in the squares in some of our suburbs. When the police or ambulance arrive at the scene, they are hit by stone stones because those who sell drugs do not want the authorities there but want to act undisturbed. Most of the people who live there think that this is bad. They don't want it like this, but they don't have the guts to act. They do not want to live in an area where law and order do not prevail, but they do not dare intervene. Sometimes the police don't even dare to go into the square. I was very surprised to see a report about a Norwegian TV team visiting Rinkeby. The police showed where the square was but did not dare to go there themselves because it would be perceived as provocative. I couldn't find words. Then we have failed completely in maintaining law and order in our suburbs. I just get pissed off. It feels like the state has surrendered to these problems. Isn't Rinkeby, Fittja and Tensta, for example, part of the Swedish rule of law? In addition, entrepreneurs flee the suburbs because there is no law and order. This trend must be reversed.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-280	Mr President, I would like to I did not intend to get up in this debate, but I feel compelled because I am being so provoked. I have not visited these suburbs; I have lived in these suburbs for over 20 years, and I can see that this is not a new problem. I am not going to say that it is one or the other majority that is the villain in the drama, because in Stockholm we have had different majorities for many years. I'd say it's just as much our own fault. We've closed our eyes, and now the matter is urgent. What to do? If you're moderate, you talk police. Always. Of course we need a police service. We must, of course, ensure that those who commit crimes are put behind bars. But then what? What do we do with the authorities and administrations that have moved away over the years? I have had the privilege of being active in both Rinkeby and Kista for many years. What's it look like there? At one time there were two district administrations, one in Rinkeby and one in Husby. Does Erik Andersson know where it is today? Yes, in the skinful Kista mall. Progress has gone the wrong way. I do not want to have a debate on this, but let me just mention that in these areas there is despair over the possibility of choosing a school. It has also contributed to a great segregation. I'm not saying it's the whole explanation, but I'm saying it's part of it. I think we need to go back to this work. I believe that this is about honest, old-fashioned cross-border cooperation. It's about the police, the school and social services. When I was chairman of the District Council in Kista in the late 90s, we had field assistants out all the time. Many of them are now rationalized. The only thing that's the same is that they look the same as when I was chairman of the district council. There is no need for action here. As far as women are concerned, several times they have been filmed from a café in Husby. Twenty years ago, there were also only men there. We didn't react at the time. We have a big homework to do. We need to gather. It does not help to say: It is your fault; you must do something. Everyone has done something in this context, but no one has done enough. It is therefore particularly important that we gather from all over society, state, municipalities and county councils. Speaking of the county council, there were former health centres in each area: one in Husby, one in Akalla, one in Kista and one in Rinkeby. Several of these have been closed or amended. There were retirement homes in each area, but they have also been closed down. It's about a lot of different things. It is not about what has happened over the last two or three years, but about what has happened over the last 20 to 30 years.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-292	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Andersson and Börje Vestlund! This is the second time in a short time that we have a debate where more people jump into these issues and where it is also men who participate in a debate on gender equality, which I think is very important. It's really important. It may seem to be more of a conversation than a debate, and I am happy to do so. I agree with Mr Börje that we need to address this issue on the table and see how we can make the best of the tools we have. I don't think you got a used answer, Erik. We've been working on these issues a lot, and we do it all the time. The fact that we are repeating the same things is probably because we are simply trying to work with the efforts we are making, and there are quite a lot of them. Fortunately, there's a whole row more. I often meet women's, girls' and certain male organisations that are active in these issues and who live in vulnerable residential areas. They have also asked the government for a number of efforts that we have tried to make, which I did not mention in the answer. This includes reviewing support for religious communities and identifying honour-related violence, as well as wanting honorary motives to form the basis for punishment. For example, we review the law on child marriage. But you also want to know what it looks like here. In the light of what Mr Börje said, we have seen this development since before. But when it comes to honour-related violence and repression, which is to some extent the matter of interpellation, one wants – and I agree with them – to know what has happened since 2009. Erik raises several questions about the police. The government has announced that we want to strengthen it. That is not my area of responsibility, but of course I agree with that. On the other hand, there are communities where there are many police officers, but where there is little awareness of gender equality issues, injustices or oppression, and where the police can even participate in such repression. That is why more needs to be done than simply increasing the number of police officers, although I think they are doing a very good job together with other authorities to integrate their activities, as has been done since the introduction of women's peace legislation. But you always have to do more. HIM, for example, is an issue where there is a need for a boost in knowledge. That is why I and the Ministers at the Ministry of Justice have also called to a meeting all the Directors-General of the authorities, who are primarily concerned by efforts in the field of honour-related violence. We had such a meeting about a month ago. We wanted to see what they are doing to implement the strategy to prevent violence against women and what other measures they have taken to combat violence against women. The roles of men, boys and parents are important here. They also need to be included in the work. We want the battle not to be dealt, the rape not to be committed and the repression not to happen. We should not restrict the lives of women and girls as we know. I'm in charge of social services. There we have reinforced the staffing, and as far as I am aware, this has not happened in modern times. We have strengthened social services by over 1 billion precisely because there is a need for staff both inside and outside who can make good use of the skills that socionomists actually have. It can usefully be implemented in these particular areas.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-302	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Mr Börje for his contribution to the debate. I largely agree with Mr Börje's view, but not everything. In the end, it is actually about the values of women. Then it doesn't matter whether you have a health center as a neighbour or not. When it comes to health centres, we have to have another debate. I do not really believe that what Mr Börje says is true, that they have decreased in numbers in the western part of the world. Börje, I also live in a suburb. But there has been a completely different development than in the suburbs that we are talking about today. This thing with signals from the state and the municipality is very important. What signals are we giving to women, to criminals and to the oppressors of women? I can also wonder how the government acted in relation to the UN Commission on Women. We did not vote 'no' today. Perhaps they abstained or voted in favour of Saudi Arabia. What signals does it give if you now picture yourself as a feminist government? What can Saudi Arabia add to the women's issue? As we all know, women in Saudi Arabia cannot do anything without the consent of the man. She can't study, she can't get health care, she can't get married, she can't run a business. The signals that authorities send to the inhabitants are extremely important. I wonder: how is it possible that a feminist government can act in such a way? Another signal is when you represent the state as a passport police, and you work for the state, then you should be able to shake hands with everyone. This applies to both women and men who work for a democratic employer. In Sweden, we are equal regardless of gender. Religion is a private matter. And it shall not reflect itself in the performance of its duties. I do not understand that the state as an employer can accept this. To believe that it is a matter of tolerance to accept different bathing times for women and men also gives opposite signals. As far as I understand, Stockholm has gone in the wrong direction here. In that case, men's poor values are accepted that it is a question of protecting men from temptation. In Sweden, a woman should be able to walk easily dressed without it being an invitation. Here we are free, and we shall continue to be free. I will fight for that, Mr President! The other day, I attended a seminar on honor-related violence. Then there were examples of families who didn't want a man working at preschool to change diapers on their boy. They thought a woman would. It was also found that a boy was not allowed to play with girls in preschool. Mr President, I would like to Personally, it is horrible that this question even comes up. Then it is important that the staff and preschool management feel confident that everyone should be treated equally and dare to resist such requests. If you live in Sweden and use tax-funded services, you have to adapt to your new country. That's just the way it is. Women should be allowed to dress as they wish throughout Sweden, and this also applies in Rinkeby, Tensta or Fittja.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-313	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with Erik Andersson that this concerns the values of women. It is very important that we stand up for them; we all agree on that. But the problem is that we've been on a sloping plane for so long. That's what I'm reacting to. This has not happened overnight. It did not start two, three or four years ago, but I dare say that these signals already existed ten years ago. Then one saw the tendencies clearly. I will mention some further examples of something that is not in the Järva area. When I moved there there was an active Red Cross circuit, KFUM, outdoor organizations and several sports organizations on site. Where are they today? Today, organisations come there because they will then receive extra money from the state, the municipality or someone else to run a project. If there's something you shouldn't be doing, it's just projects. You've seen enough projects. Then you can lie down happy to lay down the work. It is possible to do something, but it also requires that both civil society and the state, with various efforts – not least from the police, as well as municipalities and county councils take their joint responsibility. Therefore, a collection of many different initiatives is urgently needed. That is the way forward. Then we can take in an even greater gender perspective. We may not have had that before, nor can we blame anyone but ourselves for that.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-318	Mr President, I would like to The issue of gender equality in our areas of exclusion is a challenge, and I think a lot about what Fadime said when she was here in Parliament and gave her speech two months before she was killed by her father. It was an appeal to all of us not to turn their backs on them, as she put it. It is now 15 years ago, but it is difficult to say that the situation in these areas has improved significantly. What I think is serious and about which I have also exercised is that we do not really know what the situation is. We have seen cold facts, we have anecdotal evidence from people who tell how they are doing and how they are experiencing the situation, but the only mapping that is actually done is the one that Neither whore nor hive did, the so-called Eleven Hundred Mapping, and it is very limited. I would like to know a little bit how the Government sees this ignorance of what it really looks like and whether there are any plans on the part of the Government to do a proper survey.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-321	Mr President, I would like to I can start with Maria Stockhaus's question. We have just talked about this here before, that we are going to carry out a survey, and there is already such a mission. The latest and more comprehensive survey was carried out in 2009, although I have taken note of the one mentioned by Maria Stockhaus. I fully agree with this, and we have started such work. Of course, the fact that we talk a lot about the gender dimension when it comes to vulnerable areas is a good thing. We are always going to talk about the gender dimension, and I really think there is one here. This is an issue that many people with great knowledge talk about. I would like to say, however, that knowledge has increased among authorities and professionals dealing with such matters, such as social services, through the county administrative board in Östergötland and by the fact that the police have more knowledge than before. However, we must continue to ask the right questions and keep an eye on this, and that is why we are also continuing with a number of efforts towards authorities and organisations, as we have also mentioned before, which meet both perpetrators and victims of crime. I would like to say to Erik Andersson that it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who deals with the question he raises about the Women's Commission, and he can of course ask them questions about how this is done. As far as I am concerned, this issue has not been raised for political reconciliation. On the other hand, I have a lot to say about the Women's Commission and what I am responsible for. I have mentioned it a number of times in these debates, not least with Erik Andersson and his party colleagues, and I am incredibly worried, above all, that there are so many countries right now that are opposed to women's and girls' rights. Many have come to Sweden from these areas in recent years, but it is also about other parts of the world where women's rights activists live a life that is dangerous, rather lonely, because nobody cares about them. Many countries oppose the lives of women and girls in these negotiations. It was at CSW in March that the negotiations broke down. No one noticed at the time, but that's the way it was. I have mentioned it many times in these debates, and then representatives of the opposition have said yes, but now we are talking about what is happening here. I think the Women's Commission is very important, but above all I think that what is important is what happens in the negotiations, when we are there, and how we support or do not support women's rights activists who sometimes actually sacrifice their lives to get to the very issues we are talking about here today. I think that Erik Andersson should raise the issue with the Ministry for Foreign Affairs if he has more detailed questions about the process. Furthermore, I cannot help but ask Erik Andersson a question. I think he seems very committed to gender equality methods and the issue of gender equality, and I think that's great. But now it is true that his party has opened up to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats, and they are against most of the reforms that have led to what we call equality in Sweden today or that have made us have the degree of equality that we have. For example, the Swedish democrats are against special taxation, they are against the abortion legislation we have, they are against gender pedagogy and they are for custody allowance. About what of this is the Moderates prepared to negotiate? None of this will promote good development in relation to the issues we are discussing here today.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-333	Mr President, I would like to Now I have to talk very quickly because I only have two minutes. Yet Sweden voted in favour of Saudi Arabia, or we abstained. We don't know that. We have no idea, even if the Minister stands here and says how important these issues are. As far as the Swedish Democrats are concerned, I can only say that the first people who used them in the Swedish Parliament were the Social Democrats, who ensured that 100 000 employees received increased tax. It was you who used the Swedish Democrats. If so, what proposals do you intend to adopt from the Swedish Democrats? Other things, the Swedish Democrats are allowed to answer. There is no area where the state and the municipality pour as much money as in schools and recreation centres in our outlying areas and suburbs. Yet it looks like it does. So it is not a question of money, but a question of commitment and values. We all know how Sweden was built up about a hundred years ago. We had associations, civil society was built from below and each other was educated. In these vulnerable suburbs we need a women's struggle that comes from below so that women also dare to stand up for what is right and right and does not feel forgotten and oppressed. We need a women's struggle that comes from below, and I am prepared to help. From a moderate point of view, we have pushed for issues such as compulsory social orientation, and we have also advocated, for example, home visits from social services, for example, to catch up with women living on subsistence support. It's very important. It is not uncommon for men to prevent these women from attending an education or any activity.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-341	Mr President, I would like to Thanks to the Alliance, it was stopped to move the competence centre around honorary culture from the county administrative board in Östergötland. The government had planned to merge this with the Equality Agency, and although it can be said that this is a gender equality issue in general, it is nevertheless the case that what affects these women is something very specific. It is about that they cannot have their human rights satisfied and also that Swedish law does not apply in some of these areas. That is why it is important that we were able to put an end to these plans so that the skills do not run the risk of disappearing and the work that has been done is lost. It is very serious when people feel that they cannot take up space in the public space, that they have no room for their own personal freedom at all and are not able to marry anyone they want, socialize with anyone they want or move freely in society in general. The Moderates have therefore raised the issue of social orientation. It is extremely important that those who come to Sweden and also those who live in the excluded areas know what legislation applies in Sweden. It is absolutely about equality, but we still need to get back to the ground, and it is about human rights and Swedish legislation. For many of the women in these areas it does not apply, and we must therefore be clear about what rights we have.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-345	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, all of you who have been involved in this debate, and thank you in particular to Erik Andersson, who put the interpellation! We will certainly come back to these subjects. We have also had several discussions about the county administrative board in Östergötland. I still wonder why the Alliance did not permanence this activity that they are now concerned about, but perhaps we can talk about that another time. I think that this activity is very valuable, and that is why I think that the compromise that we made with the Liberals in the end was much better than what our two proposals were from the beginning. It's a negotiation at its best, I think. I would like to thank Mr Erik for his commitment. He's talking about it being unequal 100 years ago. Yes, but the fact that it became more equal... even if we don't have an equal society yet... was due to political decisions being made. I think all the research shows that. We've talked about that before, too. I firmly believe that equality does not suddenly arise on a Tuesday if it did not exist on Monday. You have to make decisions to get there. The party that you have opened up to cooperation with, Erik – it is your party that has done so – has a completely different view of this. They want to go against all the reforms that have been proposed by women and which have been pushed forward by some political parties, including my own. For me, this is a very serious issue, and I therefore think that the voters have the right to know what you are prepared to negotiate on. The issue of honour-related violence and oppression and women whose lives are restricted in vulnerable residential areas I am happy to discuss again.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-351	Mr President, I would like to Bengt Eliasson has asked me if I intend to work to make it possible for so-called self-care to form the basis for decisions on personal assistance and whether I intend to deal with the matter urgently. Furthermore, Bengt Eliasson has asked if I know that the Social Insurance Fund's payments are very late and what I do to ensure that assistance providers receive compensation on time, so that they can pay salaries to personal assistants. I would like to begin by emphasising that I understand the very stressful situation faced by relatives, parents and siblings when a child is born with major disabilities and has great needs that need to be met. I would also like to make it clear that all women, men, girls and boys in need of support and service are entitled to this through the legislation in place in our country. Just as Bengt Eliasson points out and as I in an interpellation response earlier this year have answered Bengt Eliasson, two preliminary rulings from the Supreme Administrative Court concerning supervision as basic needs and so-called self-care as basic needs have had an impact in Försäkringskassan's application of the legislation in 2016. An individual's need for support can be met and financed by society in several ways. With regard to the legislation in place to meet needs for support and service, the main staff are now divided between the state, county councils and municipalities. The municipalities are responsible for interventions under the Social Services Act(2001:453) and LSS(1993:387). For personal assistance there is a shared headship between the state and the municipality. When it comes to interventions under the Health Care Act(2017:30), municipalities and county councils are responsible for different parts. It is also legitimate health care personnel who make the assessment whether an intervention can be carried out as a self-care operation or not. The responsibility for providing adequate support for children and adults is thus shared between the three principals municipality, county council and state. What has happened is that the judgments of the Supreme Administrative Court have clarified the division of responsibilities between the principals. However, the overall responsibility for providing adequate support has not diminished. It is the government's responsibility to monitor the consequences for users of these practice-forming judgments. The Government has therefore submitted a number of assignments to Försäkringskassan and Socialstyrelsen to deepen knowledge of the effects of the new case law on persons with assistance compensation or with personal assistance according to LSS, how the judges affect the municipalities' granting of other measures under the LSS and the Social Services Act, and to what extent municipalities and county councils cooperate in matters relating to self-care. The government has also initiated a review of the entire LSS legislation. The directives for the LSS investigation show, among other things, that the investigator has the task of reviewing the shared responsibility for personal assistance and the consequences it has had for other actions for which the municipality is responsible, and of analysing the borderline of the Health Care Act, against supervision due to medical needs and against other municipal efforts. As I said before, the shared responsibility of society to provide adequate support has not been reduced by the judges. There is therefore no need for a change of law for municipalities and county councils here and now to deal with these situations. I expect these principals to assume their responsibilities so that children receive the support they need. It is not possible to take action on a judgment that you do not know the effects of, and therefore the government has acted in the short term to increase knowledge of the issue. However, I am aware that there are shortcomings in the efforts made under the LSS and in the deficiencies contained in the assistance allowance. In order to deal with these issues in the long term, I have commissioned the LSS investigation to conduct a review of the efforts under LSS and the assistance compensation. As regards the issue of payment of the assistance allowance, from 1 October 2016, the Social Insurance Agency has introduced a late payment procedure. This means that Försäkringskassan pays assistance compensation after the assistance has been carried out and reported. However, those who employ their assistants themselves will continue to receive the compensation paid in advance. The purpose of the Social Insurance Agency's decision to pay the compensation in arrears is to ensure a better control and a more legally secure management of the assistance compensation. The initiative for change comes from the bourgeois government. It is also a natural order for most businesses to be paid when a service has been performed and reported. I have an ongoing dialogue with Försäkringskassan on matters relating to assistance compensation. The Social Insurance Agency states that the supporting documents provided by assistance providers need to be supplemented to a relatively large extent. The effect of incomplete documentation from organisers is a delayed handling and payment both in individual cases and overall. Where payments have been delayed for a long time, this is because the supporting documents have not been complete. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency makes the assessment that in most cases payment takes place within one month from the date of receipt of the data and that the problems have been reduced over time.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-361	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. I'm going to say hello to my colleague Bengt Eliasson, who is the one who has set the interpellations. Unfortunately, he had to be in another place today – in fact, on the same issue. But this is one of the Liberals' heart issues, so I'm glad I'm allowed to stand here instead. At the same time, we stand here again today, a Liberal and the Government, debating something that we should not really have to debate. I'm not at all happy about that. Mr President, I would like to The government and the Government, like us liberals, claim to stand for a society that is equal, non-discriminatory and inclusive. At the same time, one of Sweden's most important reforms for equality, namely LSS with personal assistance as its core, is being postponed. We Liberals are not really making this right. In the interpellation response, the Government initially describes its commitment, which I have no doubt at all, and its understanding of the very stressful situation faced by relatives, parents and siblings. In a debate article this weekend, the Government writes:"The Government has simultaneously commissioned several authorities to carefully review how the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's assessments change as a result of a number of judgments in the Supreme Administrative Court that affect how LSS should be applied. This review will be completed in September this year. But following the trend is not enough. The intentions behind the LSS legislation shall apply and if the application of the law fails to reach its intentions, the law must be amended. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to The judgments that are always at the heart of the debate and that run the government's policy in this area are two. One is from 2015 and began to be applied by Försäkringskassan directly, which is normal. The second is from 2012 and began to be applied by Försäkringskassan 2016, which can be seen as a direct consequence of the government's call in the regulation letter to break the hourly development. In fact, authorities are supposed to follow the government's instructions. Mr President, I would like to However, the interpretation of the judgment by the Social Insurance Agency is doubtful. It is not said in the judgment that self-care can never be fundamental needs, but only that in the present case it was not. This is also the interpretation of the judgment by the Administrative Court of Appeal in Gothenburg. But the Social Insurance Agency is not convinced of the correctness of this, but has appealed. Let's see what you find out. Furthermore, if the government – as the Government says in the interpellation response, this weekend's debate article and as the S Congress clearly stated in its decision – is not satisfied with the judgments that have been passed, the government can quickly propose legislative changes or at least initially ask for an investigation that makes proposals. The government hasn't. There have been too many other legislations during the term of office, but not here. At best, an investigation will be pending in 2019. How do the government and the government intend not only to follow up the consequences of the changes in practice, but actually to halt and make adjustments? Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say a few words about the late payments, because we are debating two issues here today. According to Försäkringskassan itself, the main shortcomings have been in the municipalities. However, healthcare providers have been contacted by many desperate entrepreneurs who have handled the reporting correctly and still have not received their money due to administrative deficiencies at Försäkringskassan. Whichever is the practice in all other cases when it does not work, it always gets wrong, time is not kept and third parties suffer from opening dialogues, development work and simplified procedures. This has been the case for sick leave procedures, certification writing, rehabilitation plans and so on. Why is this not the case in these areas? In concrete terms, what is the government doing in its dialogues with the authorities? Will a request be made, for example, for a deadline for payment when compensation has to be paid out?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-370	Mr President, I would like to This issue is really big and important, and I have been involved in it. I think it is very important that the right person gets the right input. That is also why the Social Insurance Agency has the task of ensuring that this happens. I am also very keen that the fairly substantial funds allocated to the reform should be used precisely for those who have the right to action in the sense of the law. Since we think so, we have not changed the legislation either. We have not made any changes to the rules or legislation. However, we have asked Försäkringskassan to ensure that the processing is legally secure and equal across the country. We have been criticised by the United Nations among others that it is possible to be dealt with in different ways depending on where you live in the country. We want to correct that. We want the funds to be used for what it was intended and that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency should therefore tighten up the control. We must agree that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency should apply judgments that fall. The alternative that I would somehow say that this particular judgment should you not care about cannot reasonably exist. I hope that is not what the honourable Member means. What we have done, and as I say in my reply, is that we have given assignments to the National Board of Health and Welfare and other authorities. We will have the first in September. It's relatively soon. It's just to follow up on the effects of the judges. I want to know, and I want to know if there is anything I can do in the short term to change. It could be legislation or something else. At the same time, we have the longer-term investigation. There are more judgments that have fallen. Among other things, there is one from 2012. I really wonder: Why did the bourgeois government do nothing? We've had so many conversations about this. You did not follow up on those judgments, and especially the one from 2012. Why? I wonder. If that had happened, we would now have been ahead. I will also say that we received a report from the December Social Security Inspection, which was also an attempt by the government to follow up the judges. Maybe it wasn't quite as clear as I'd hoped. I have great respect for it because it's a very complex matter. You draw conclusions from it. I may have been naive, but I would have wished for even more concrete proposals: this is exactly what we can do now. I hope it will come. That is why I have ordered the documentation that begins to fall out in September, and I will follow it closely. When it comes to dialogue with the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, we have one with regard to the payments. I also tried to account for it.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-379	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying to the Government that the 2012 judgment did not apply until 2016. That's why we didn't do so much crazy about it. Otherwise, I would like to thank you for your answer. The only reasonable starting point for the investigation of the law that we are facing should really be: Can the new investigation mean improvements for aid beneficiaries, and why are the LSS goals of equality and full participation in society never achieved? That's where I think we're on the same page. Is the question that is at the heart of today, the so-called self-care, a common social responsibility, as the state council it describes it? It is health care that assesses whether an intervention can be carried out as self-care. However, once this is the case, it is no longer the responsibility of the health service but of the individual, possibly by means of personal assistance. Those judgments did not at all clarify the division of responsibilities. They are only about what can be considered as basic needs and thus about who is entitled to personal assistance. They say nothing about the division of responsibilities between the principals. Mr President, I would like to It is clear to us Liberals and most parties in Parliament that some kind of change of law is needed after all. The law has come to be interpreted as excluding personal assistance in practice, for example, for many people with medical problems or need for probe feeding. Is it reasonable that the most accurate operation should be excluded? In the nterpellation response, the Government speaks of shortcomings in the LSS efforts. The most important shortcoming that we Liberals see is that the effort must not be used when it is most accurate. That's what we need to change. Mr President, I would like to It is simply not reasonable for children to be forced to stay in hospital because they do not receive assistance. I think there were many people who saw SVT's news yesterday about Matilda, who had to come home. Children must be allowed to play and live with their parents and siblings. This policy and the way in which laws are interpreted simply make life terrible for the families involved. It is also unreasonable from a socio-economic point of view. Hospital care is by far the most expensive thing we have. Even if you imagine that children receive home care or home care, it is both more expensive per hour compared to assistance, and the basic idea of the assistance reform was to get away from the patchwork of various interventions, where different people came at different times and made different point interventions. As usual, reference is made to the LSS investigation. Maybe it's not that strange. But the Government knows very well that it will not present its proposals until October 2018. With normal speed of processing, this means that there is a change of law at best a year later. Mr President, I would like to I don't think Matilda or other children should have to stay in hospital until October 2019. Additional directives can be put forward and the matter speeded up. I'd really like it to be done.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-389	Mr President, I would like to As for the report that I ordered quite early from the ISF, it has been submitted to the investigation. Perhaps it was not quite as clear as might have been useful. But I have great respect for the work that had to be done. As far as the impact of the judges is concerned, this is the third time that I have said that I have commissioned documentation to produce something more specific about it. I won't laugh at anything but that sometimes you talk past each other. It is precisely to speed up or clarify the situation that it should aim at. Nevertheless, as the element also showed, if there is a court ruling saying that it is not the responsibility of the state in the individual case – and I cannot interfere with that – municipalities and county councils must decide how it should be done. You can't say it's nobody's responsibility. That's not what the court has said. The Court has not said that responsibility has ceased or that there is no need. It has just said that it should not be in this reform. That the consequences are great for a family that had expected and that it is entitled to this help, I have great respect for. I understand that. That's why I've also ordered the files. The fact that the previous government did not review the impact of the 2012 judgment because nothing happened is not correct. This debate has existed since then. It's a well-known question. I think that would have really helped. Now I'm in charge. I want the intentions of the law to apply. If it is the case that the effects of the judges take us away from them, we must do something about it. But I must have some basis to know: What exactly is the change to be made?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-396	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for your commitment! The LSS Act is an important reform of freedom. The intention behind the law is valid until this House says otherwise. Actually, the law is amazingly simple: It is simply about people with disabilities being able to live just like everyone else. When people who lose all or part of their assistance, have fewer opportunities or lose the opportunity to enjoy their civil rights, whether political or economic, social or cultural, I think we can all see that there are problems. The liberal goal for Sweden is a society where people meet with respect regardless of age, gender and background and regardless of functional ability and d is each individual seen as a resource and costs are seen as an investment in each citizen's unique potential. I thank the Government for the debate. We will certainly come back and continue to nag about and lift this until it is resolved. I would like to conclude by quoting the debate article of the State Council, because we agree on what it says. We think it is good and important that the Social Democrats take a clear stand on the issue of LSS and that people with disabilities should be able to live an independent life. Work on improving legislation is under way and we are ready to take further action to achieve the objectives of strong support for people with disabilities adopted by us Social Democrats. The intentions behind the LSS legislation should apply – we Social Democrats agree on that. ..................................................... We Liberals also agree on this. This basis is good, but we are aware of many of the effects of the judgment of 2015 and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's interpretation of the judgment of 2012. Some people with, for example, medical problems or the need for probe feeding cannot get personal assistance even if the most accurate effort is just this. This is something you should be able to look at right away. It should be possible to do this now, without waiting for the entire investigation to be completed. We know the effects of this, the Government knows the effects, Matilda knows the effects and I know the effects. It is time to react and act.
i-Mg7BEcyxhnzjPkXGV1JcZo	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Christina Örnebjär and Bengt Eliasson, for the interpellations and for the debate! Yes, that is precisely why we have requested all these bases where we also want to look at how to make it easier so that people do not end up between the chairs. And what does the effect of these judgments really mean in relation to the intentions of the law? I feel like I've said this a number of times now. The debate will continue. The investigation is under way because it has a broad mission. It reviews all bets. We are talking about personal assistance because it is an important reform of freedom, but there are also a number of other efforts. There is a gender perspective in the investigation, and it is about the issue of dual headship or not. These are big questions. The investigator is a Member of Parliament from the Christian Democrats. She has the task of talking to the other parties to discuss how we can move forward and how we can carry the reform together, which I think is important.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-404	Mr President, I would like to Mats Green has asked me, on the one hand, what I meant by my statement on horseback riding and on personal living expenses, and, on the other hand, how I distinguish between horseback riding and ice hockey in this regard, for example. The limit for the type of exercise that should be a personal care benefit and thus be tax-free for employees means today that it should be a matter of simpler exercise sports that can be practiced by almost everyone. Sports requiring more expensive facilities, tools and peripherals have not been considered to be simpler forms of exercise. The costs of such activities shall instead be considered as personal living expenses in accordance with the applicable regulations. What is simpler sports is ultimately a matter for the Swedish Tax Agency and our courts. Riding by the Swedish Tax Agency, unlike ice hockey among others, has not been considered to meet the requirement for it to be a simple exercise sport. The scope of the wellness benefit is something that engages many, and as I have answered in previous interpellation debates, the question will be the subject of consideration during the term of office. There are many aspects, such as equality and equality, that need to be analysed.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-408	Mr President, I would like to The title of interpellation one could actually obey Magdalena Andersson's prejudices about equestrianism. One should not be able to deduct for personal living expenses, said the Minister of Finance in a parliamentary debate with me on 2 February this year about why horseback riding should not be eligible for health benefits as opposed to other sports. This rather remarkable statement raises a number of questions about the Minister for Finance and the Government's view of the Swedish equestrian sport in general but above all about the view of equestrian sport in relation to other sports. Within the current framework, there is scope for employers to contribute to different health care options for their staff. There are a number of areas that according to the Swedish Tax Agency are classified as tax-free exercise or fitness benefits. Strength training, football and ice hockey are classified as deductible benefits. So far all is well, Mr President, especially since my municipality's hockey team HV71 became Swedish champions this weekend. But laughter gymnasium, choral singing in the workplace, salt rooms, Feldenkrais pedagogy, guitar lessons, reflexology, herbal baths, Rosentherapy, cold baths and sauna baths are some notable examples of wellness that employers can offer their employees. Despite the medically recognized good effects on body and health, the Swedish Tax Agency refuses to classify it as a tax-free exercise or wellness benefit. In addition to the health effects, horseback riding provides an important exercise for employees with, for example, various functional and mobility problems, balance difficulties, back problems and visual impairments to name but a few. Mr President, I would like to Riding is Sweden's second largest disability sport. Some 4 000 riders with disabilities are given the opportunity to engage in meaningful and health-promoting leisure activities by horseback riding. It can also be added that thanks to our large number of riding schools in Sweden, horseback riding is a form of training you don't have to be rich – because that's what the Finance Minister says – or live cheaply in the country in order to be able to practice. I therefore put two questions to the Minister for Finance in response to her statements. I have been able to read the answer read here today too. I'm sure that's an answer to something but not to the questions I asked. I therefore ask the questions again and hope instead for answers in the debate. Firstly, what does the Minister of Finance mean by his statement that horseback riding is a personal cost of living? Secondly, how does Magdalena Andersson distinguish between horseback riding and ice hockey, for example, in this regard? Thirdly, Mr President, what makes horseback riding, but not hockey, personal living expenses in the world of the Minister for Finance? I would like to see an answer to this in the forthcoming debate.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-415	Mr President, I would like to I would like to refer to a debate in the media last week, which was very much about how mental illness is increasing rapidly in Sweden and about the fact that we have problems with high sickness rates. The government has made it clear that the employer needs to take greater responsibility to prevent stress, among other things. Although more research is needed to draw far-reaching conclusions, there are several studies that show positive results of horseback riding in terms of rehabilitation and recovery, such as depression, anxiety and stress, which are some of the disease symptoms that increase avalanches. We benefit from association with animals and stay in nature and outdoor environments. It has also been possible to measure decreases in heart rate, blood pressure and stress hormones in participants. The horse is a mobile base, so horse riding is good when it comes to coordination and also back problems, which is also a common cause of sick leave in Sweden today. I think it's a little strange that the government can't let go of the prestige and attitude that horseback riding is a rich man's sport that should not be subject to health care deductions when the evidence is so incredibly clear that horseback riding could be a powerful tool in preventing high sickness rates, which is something that we have problems with and that affects Sweden's economy a lot. The evidence is clear that horseback riding is positive when it comes to stress, so I wonder why employers should not have the opportunity to subsidise horseback riding as part of their preventive health care work.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-420	Mr President, I would like to I think Mats Green is making himself more stupid than I think he is. If I had spoken about what is personal living cheeses and not said that horseback riding is or is not, I would have intervened in the exercise of authority. As a result, we would not have had this debate in this House, but in the Constitutional Committee, because then Mats Green would have signed up to the Constitutional Committee instead of me interfering in law enforcement and exercising ministerial rule in a way that I cannot do. That, of course, was not what I said either, because I am well aware of the limitations of the ministry. I said that what is being done in tax legislation is to try to find the balance between what is justified for the employer to deduct and what can be personal living expenses. That is exactly what this type of legislation is all about. A formulation has been found, and that is the wording on which this is based. The Swedish Tax Agency then applies that legislation, and they have done so by doing this list, among other things. So I'm not in charge of this list, but it's the IRS that does. However, we are currently looking at the wording of the legislation. Therefore, I cannot distinguish between horseback riding and ice hockey, for then I interfere in the exercise of authority. It is perhaps unnecessary for Members of Parliament to ask questions that, if I answer them, may lead to the same MPs being able to register me with the KU.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-424	Mr President, I would like to Yes, but it is now the Minister for Finance who has said this. Anyone who does not believe it can read in the Chamber Minutes and watch the Parliament's web-television on the debate that we had on 2 February. The Minister for Finance made it clear that the government does not want to be able to deduct personal living expenses. We can, of course, have a debate here on health care deductions. We will, I promise, have a number of times here until the government has implemented its electoral promise. But here it is about the distinction made by the Minister for Finance herself when she said that horseback riding risks leading to a deduction of personal living expenses. Then I would like to ask again: why are personal living expenses deducted in terms of horseback riding but not in terms of ice hockey, for example? That's what I want to know. Mr President, I would like to I may also find it a little strange that the most women-dominated sport of all is dismissed by the Minister of Finance as an upper-class port – because that's what she does – to be discriminated against in relation to male-dominated sports. That, however, is the conclusion of the argument, and I strongly oppose it. To claim or suggest that in my own stable, the 4H farm Vissmålarna outside Huskvarna, is a special social layering or that only people with very good income can afford to use it is directly wrong. In addition, horseback riding is Sweden's second largest disability sport, and we must not forget that. People with disabilities are generally not, Mr President, those in our society who have the best economic conditions. I do not see any defence whatsoever for this, but I would still like the Minister of Finance to comment on what she herself said. It is not the Swedish Tax Agency that has established this, but she herself who said it in the interpellation debate on 2 February. What is the difference between riding and ice hockey in terms of personal living expenses? We are also talking about an election promise given by the current public health minister Gabriel Wikström and Magdalena Andersson's party secretary in the previous election movement. If the Swedish Tax Agency says one or the other is rather uninteresting, because we are not sitting here just to establish what the tax authorities or other authorities say. We are sitting here to change the directives that exist and the errors that we see in Swedish society. That is why we are elected representatives and not to go through what some state authorities might have said. And here, in fact, it is Magdalena Andersson who has said this. What does the Minister of Finance mean by the fact that deduction for riding would be deduction for personal living expenses but strength training, ice hockey, Rosentherapy or all you can get deductions for is not? I understand that the Minister of Finance is annoyed, and she will probably have to remain irritated until you keep your promise. What's the difference between riding and hockey? And are you going to keep the promise you made in the last election campaign? I want answers to that.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-432	Mr President, I would like to There are few sports where it is so clearly documented as when it comes to equestrian sports that the activities actually affect even mental health positively. This is something that we need to work with a lot in Sweden when the number of people who are on sick leave due to mental illness is galloping away. The association with the horse and the presence it requires as well as the possibility to stay in the forest and land, even if you are not able to walk and walk there, may have a great impact on both mental and physical health. Why does the government not want to take on board this information and the results of the studies that exist? Why is it that employers are required to prevent, not least, mental illness while not wanting to review the regulatory framework and provide them with a tool that could be powerful in preventing mental illness? When will we see a review of the legislation on health care deductions so that horseback riding can also be included?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-435	Mr President, I would like to It is difficult to take part in a debate in which Mats Green puts words in my mouth. When I read through the whole record, I find it hard to understand where Mats Green finds what I allegedly said. In the case of different deductions, tax legislation is generally based on the fact that private living expenses should not be deducted. This is generally the case in the tax legislation, for the various deductions that may be made for the acquisition of work. What I said in that interpellation debate about the possibility of making a health allowance was: a balance between what might be justified by the employer's deduction for the staff to stay healthy and what is personal living expenses. Finding this balance in legislation is complicated. ..................................................... I am not saying that one is personal living expenses but that the other is not. I take a general view of the structure of the tax legislation. It will be difficult to hold a debate. And I do not think the voters are the servants of this kind of debate.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-440	Mr President, I would like to I can assure you that everyone who reads the minutes of this House, who watches the television recording of this debate and a large part of Ridsverige, has interpreted the Finance Minister in that way. In fact, the Minister of Finance said that a deduction in terms of horseback riding would be a deduction for personal living expenses. That she is now trying to get out of it is strange to say the least. But that means that we will have a number of new debates here on that particular issue. Let me return to my core question: what in the world of finance is it that makes horseback riding but not ice hockey seen as personal living expenses? When it comes to referring to the Tax Agency, we in this Assembly are after all chosen to change what we consider to be wrong in Sweden. Yesterday was the great day of the labour movement. In squares around Sweden they explained what in Sweden's legislation about a number of different conditions that they want to change. I did not at any time hear any Socialist speaker say, No, first of all we will see how the Swedish Tax Agency interprets our approach. In particular, it is said that we will act here in the Swedish parliament. ..................................................... I don't think I'm asking for anything tremendous. The only thing I really want is to implement the election promise that the Social Democrats gave in the election movement in 2014. In the past, I have asked the Minister for Finance to tell me whether he intends to keep that promise. She refused to answer then, and she refuses to answer now. Mr President, I would like to We will probably have this debate a number of more times. For I and a number of my colleagues will continue until the promise made to the voters in the elections in 2014 has been fulfilled.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-446	Mr President, I would like to I've never said what Mats Green says I've said. And I have the record in front of me. I've read the whole record. It cannot be seen what Mats Green claims I have said. If I had said so, I am absolutely sure that any of the Moderates sitting in this House today would have notified me of the KU. It would have been ministerial rule. Let's hold a small basic political science course for Mats Green! It is the government that submits a bill to the Riksdag. The Riksdag then decides on that bill. It's the law. In the field of taxation, legislation is often quite general. As far as the health care allowance is concerned, it is a question of finding an appropriate balance in the legislation between where it is appropriate for the employer to be able to make deductions and not. This is precisely the legislation we have and which, incidentally, existed for eight years when the Moderates ruled at the Ministry of Finance. The Tax Agency then interprets the legislation and makes tax decisions based on it. As part of their official practice, they have made a list to help employers know what to deduct or not. That list is not something that the government or parliament has decided on. It is not something that I, as a minister, can interfere with either. I would then be dealing with ministerial rule, which is not allowed. If someone is dissatisfied with how the legislation has been interpreted, you can appeal the decision of the Tax Agency. Then it is the courts that are allowed to interpret the legislation. That's what it looks like. What Parliament and the Government can do is change the law. In order to do so, a review must be carried out. That is exactly what I have said in several interpellational debates that we are now working on at the Ministry of Finance. If this question is so important to the Moderates, the question remains: Why was nothing done during the eight years that they ruled at the Ministry of Finance?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-454	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked the Minister for Labour and Establishment if she believes that strong tax increases on job creation are compatible with the goal of reducing the dualization of the Swedish labour market. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the question. After the previous government's terms of office, we saw a situation of large government deficits, unemployment that had stuck to high levels and falling results in school. In order to reduce deficits and, at the same time, implement urgent efforts to increase employment and reduce unemployment, increased taxes are needed. The government has therefore changed its policy from unfunded tax cuts to investment and stronger welfare, and this has produced results. Since the government took office, unemployment has fallen by 1 percentage point and employment has increased by some 200 000 people. Sixty-seven per cent of the employment growth was recorded among foreign born children. The unemployment rate for young people is the lowest in 13 years, and the forecast shows continued strong development. At the same time, unemployment remains high and more people need to get to work. One particular challenge is to make it easier for all newcomers who have come to Sweden to enter the labour market. Everyone's willingness and ability to work must be safeguarded. The government will continue to pursue a policy of lower unemployment and increased employment and has a clear job agenda. In order to facilitate the recruitment and retention of key employees by small start-ups, the government proposes some relief in the taxation of employee stock options. The government has also introduced growth support in order for more companies to dare to take the step of hiring their first employee. For an individual trader, the aid involves a reduction in employers' contributions during the first 12 months to the first employee. A memorandum proposing to extend the support for growth to certain limited companies and partnerships has been consulted. The proposal together with the referee is now being prepared within the Government Office. Through initiatives like these, we increase opportunities for employment and thus take advantage of everyone's willingness to work. The development since the government's accession shows that Sweden is on the right track. Through investments like those mentioned earlier and with investments in our common welfare, Sweden becomes a more attractive country to live and work in.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-461	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a committed answer, Minister of Finance. Today, many of us, not just those of us who live here in Stockholm but all over Sweden, have had a nice day. I went early to a meeting with the National Board of Education and Training and felt that for the first time it was warm and comfortable outside. It is such a day when our country, Sweden, is a place you can love to work and live in. Many people are doing well here, just like around the world where more and more people are getting better and better. At the same time, it is fragile and troubled. We also have to take into account many of the problems around us. Even here in our country there are problems. The sun also has spots; there is darkness in the light too – or whatever you choose to call it. One of the spots is definitely that more and more people are standing further and further away from the labour market. Mr President, I would like to According to, for example, Arbetsförmedlingen and d es s assessments, those who are far from the labour market are even further away from it than they have done in the past. It is a steep uphill for many people to enter the labour market. Mr President, I would like to The number of people who are far from the labour market has grown, partly because the school has not kept the quality it should, but also because many people have come to Sweden who do not have the prior knowledge that is often required in the labour market here. Of course, when people are far removed from the labour market for a long time, their quality of life falls and their health deteriorates. Then crime also bites a firm, and more and more people are recruited to gang crime or serious crime, which in turn leads to people feeling a greater insecurity and feeling less at home in our society. Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Foreign Affairs has done a number of things that I think are very good for strengthening integration in Sweden. It was right to remove the custody allowance; it is much better to work than to be at home and live on benefits. I think that the initiatives announced at schools in exclusion areas are promising, albeit somewhat unclear so far. It has been a good thing that the Minister for Finance and the Government have retained the job tax deductions, which are probably the most job-creating reform that has been implemented in Sweden. There are many good things about what Magdalena Andersson does. The Moderates want to move forward with more investments in compulsory preschools, extended school hours and first teachers. There are many things that could further contribute to breaking the exclusion. This could involve strengthening the employment tax credit or taking down marginal taxes. That this would be very good has among others LO, Bertil Holmlund and several times over, so a little more of this would of course be good. Another spot in all light is equilibrium unemployment, which is expected to bite or even increase slightly according to the Institute of Economic Development's forecasts, from 6.7 to 6.8 percent. Equality unemployment is about the unemployment that politics, not economic activity, governs. If you remove the economic cycle, you get a balanced unemployment, and it rises marginally with the government's policy according to the Institute of Economic Development. The Moderates have set employment targets: half a million more jobs and halving the job gap. My question to the Minister for Finance is: how does the Minister of Finance view these objectives, and does she think they can be valuable to Sweden?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-471	Mr President, I would like to I think it might be useful to set targets for the labour market. That is exactly what the government has done. There I can think that the most important thing is not exactly how to formulate the objectives, but that you have a clear target for the labour market and let it be a steering year for politics. That is exactly how the government has worked when we have set ourselves the goal of having the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. My assessment after these years is that this has been a valuable instrument for guiding policy and having a clear job focus on the measures implemented by the government. This is why, among other things, we have carried out a new major knowledge boost with up to 70 000 more jobs and training places. Already this year 50 000 are growing. This is partly because we see that the big gap in the labour market in Sweden is between people who have an education and people who do not have it. If you do not have upper secondary education, unemployment is high, regardless of where you were born in the world. Therefore, it is important to carry out the knowledge transfer, not to limit it, not least because many new arrivals come to Sweden at an age when it may be appropriate to replenish with education. I share Niklas Wykman's view that it was important to remove the custody allowance. After eight years of Alliance policy, we saw that far too many were not helped by job tax deductions. These did not help people who were far removed from the labour market to enter it, but we saw that too many people were far removed from the labour market. The care allowance actually left women further away from the labour market, and therefore the government has abolished the custody allowance. We are now also implementing a change in parental insurance in such a way that newly arrived women will enter the labour market more quickly. I appreciate Niklas Wykman's commitment to this issue, but when five job tax deductions – 140 billion in tax cuts – have not solved these problems, one naturally wonders why a sixth would solve them. It is in principle designed as the previous job tax deductions. Niklas Wykman and the Moderates want to cut down 3.6 billion precisely on efforts to get these people into work through labour market policies. How will these cuts create more jobs for these people? We have abolished the possibility of double allowances and grants as new arrivals, i.e. to receive both start-up and start-up benefits. We have removed this, but the Moderates want to reinstate it. I understand that the Moderates want the grants to be reduced, but then I wonder why they want new arrivals to have double contributions in a way that people who have lived in Sweden for a long time are not able to because the grant is deducted from the unemployment fund. However, this does not take place against the start-up allowance.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-479	Mr President, I would like to Unlike the various Amprojects that the government has rolled out, new start jobs have a very good effect. They are not only tenfold better than the government's proposal, but a hundredfold better if you look at outcomes. That is why we are looking after new start jobs, and Magdalena Andersson knows that very well. I'm not going to speculate on romance, but I'd like to say that the Minister of Finance has a secret romance with the job tax deductions. There is always a lot of criticism of the job tax deductions, but the government leaves the five loathsome deductions in the budget after the budget. You wonder why they leave something behind that they dislike, but of course it's because they don't dislike them. The Minister of Finance knows that job tax deductions create 120 000 – 130 000 more jobs in the Swedish economy. Mr President, I would like to It is about the people who are the furthest from the labour market. The Minister of Finance himself mentioned the new jobs. It is a type of action that the Alliance appreciates. There is a need for more measures of this kind, measures that create many jobs. We heard the Minister of Finance talking about the government creating places in different systems. One day there will be 1,000 new jobs, and the next there will be 5,000 or 10,000 new jobs. But it always stops at places in theory, because when you look at the reality of the programmes, it is not about 1 000 or 10 000 people. Often there are 10 or sometimes 100 people who get real employment in such measures. It is not enough to inflate the number of places when there are no people doing anything in the systems. The Minister of Finance is content with the strong economic wind that is blowing, not only over Sweden but over large parts of the world, not least in our regions. This takes credit for the growth of employment, but this is not due to the policies that are being implemented, but to the fact that the economy in the outside world and therefore Sweden is doing better at the moment. Mr President, I would like to There is great concern among the people who are far from the labour market now that there is a boom. What will happen to them when there is a recession and the Riksbank has the gas in the bottom even though it is downhill? In addition, the Minister for Finance, as she has been doing for years, presses the gas pedal at the bottom of the steep downhill but still does not think that the car goes fast enough. I'll tell the Minister of Finance a secret that every little child knows, and that's that for every downhill there's exactly one uphill. When this downhill or boom is over, there will be an uphill, and we are now sitting in a car that already has the accelerator in the bottom and will not have any fuel left when the uphill comes. In a boom of fire, where we are now, nearly 1 million people are alienated. We are faced with a commitment that these people should enter the labour market in a situation where the economic situation will apparently be in a weaker situation but where the Finance Minister has contented himself with the fact that we have a rising equilibrium unemployment. Why has the Minister of Finance not taken a single measure to reduce equilibrium unemployment in Sweden?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-488	Mr President, I would like to There is one who sat at the Ministry of Finance and gassed downhill. It was Niklas Wykman. It was in Niklas Wykman's time at the Ministry of Finance that gassed. During Moderates' time at the Ministry of Finance, public finances deteriorated every year. The fact that they did so during the financial crisis itself was not strange; it was quite the right policy. However, the continued deterioration of public finances as the economic cycle turned upwards in 2013 and 2014 in such a way that we ended up extremely far from the path of the surplus target that we have to follow was very inappropriate. That is also why I changed the policy when I took over from Niklas Wykman in the Ministry of Finance and made sure to tighten up public finances. As a result, we now have order. We had almost 1% surplus in public finances last year, and the estimate is that we will have surpluses this year as well and in the coming years. During the last parliamentary term, with a moderate leadership, we had growing deficits each year. During this term of office, we have had surpluses over all the years under my leadership. This is not only about economic activity, but also about structural savings that have been significantly strengthened since Niklas Wykman's time at the Ministry of Finance. That is because we take responsibility for public finances, just as Social Democraticly-led governments have always done, while the Moderates leave behind large deficits just as moderate governments have always done. That's what Swedish modern history looks like. Niklas Wykman says you care about the new start jobs. So do we. That is why we have retained new jobs, and they are an important part of labour market policy. My question to Niklas Wykman is: why should you have the opportunity to have start-up and subsidised employment at the same time, so that you can get double benefits and get double benefits when you are new arrivals but not when you are an ordinary unemployed person? That is to say, if you receive a subsidy through subsidised employment. This is something that we removed, because we do not think that you should be able to have double benefits, whether you are a Swedish unemployed or if you are a newly arrived unemployed. But the Moderates want you to be able to get double contributions. I find that hard to understand. It is quite correct that we have not abolished job tax deductions. We went to elections that we should not abolish them. This is not because we believe that they have such amazing effects and will solve exclusion in the way that Niklas Wykman believes, but because we see no reason to increase the tax on ordinary employees. We had this as a clear electoral promise, and of course we will live up to it. On the other hand, I do not believe that a sixth job tax deduction will solve the problems pointed out by Niklas Wykman. I believe, however, that the government's active employment and labour market policy will do so. We have taken a series of measures to strengthen access to the labour market for people who are further away from it. There is not least the great leap in knowledge that the government has carried out a very important piece of the puzzle.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-494	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Finance here takes a line of reasoning in which she says roughly that there are unemployed Swedes who do not receive the same benefits as unemployed immigrants. It is a kind of rhetoric that I do not intend to relate to or respond to. It has been tried in a number of countries with terrible results. I think the Minister of Finance should take a stand against this kind of rhetoric. Really so far Sweden hasn't sunk yet, has it? Mr President, I would like to Rather, it is a matter of seeing what is actually producing results, what economic research says and what experience brings. New start jobs are effective. Then let's have them. Establishment compensation has been a way of trying to break the exclusion that unfortunately many times – more often in Sweden than in many other countries – emerges for people who come here, partly because the thresholds into the Swedish labour market are so high. The Minister for Finance does not want to answer why she has not proposed a single reform that, according to the overall evaluators, reduces equilibrium unemployment in Sweden. It may fall at a margin for a few years because it is estimated that it is able to reduce labour force participation slightly. However, not a single measure to reduce equilibrium unemployment is proposed. This means that people in a vulnerable situation will get even worse when the recession strikes. It is not a job-creating policy. But it is clear that if one can say that a feminist foreign policy is in line with voting Saudi Arabia to take responsibility for gender equality, then perhaps it is also a job-creating policy not to want to reduce equilibrium unemployment.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-498	Mr President, I would like to The problem is that the Moderates are actually proposing in their budget exercise that new arrivals should be able to have double benefits in a way that people who receive unemployment benefits do not have. I find it difficult to understand, and I have not received a single explanation from Niklas Wykman as to why he thinks that people with start-up benefits should be able to receive double benefits when people with unemployment benefits should not be able to get it. That's what happened when we stepped into government. We have removed this possibility of double contributions. We think it should be the same as for others. But the Moderates propose in their budget exercise that you should be able to have double contributions when you are new arrivals. I think it's strange, and I've been trying to get an explanation from Niklas Wykman. However, he does not want to take the debate but says that this debate is at a low level. I'm just trying to understand this. It makes no sense to me. Today, the Moderates have had a big move that they do not think you should have more funding. At the same time, they are proposing double contributions for new arrivals. It's hard to understand. The government is pursuing a very active policy for more people to get to work. Of course, the important tasks that we do in terms of, for example, more people being able to receive upper secondary education also affect equilibrium unemployment. Then it is also the case that a group of people who are going to the labour market stand further away from it, which affects equilibrium unemployment in the coming years. This is because the composition of the population is different from it in the past. I have had many interpellation debates with Niklas Wykman. Every time it usually sounds like the government's policy will have disastrous effects on Sweden, the Swedish economy, employment and unemployment. So far, however, we see the results that look pretty good. We have high growth, we have 200 000 more employed, unemployment is falling and youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years, which had not been thought two and a half years ago when me and Niklas Wykman stood and debated youth unemployment contributions.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-501	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me if I will work to ensure that Gotland receives an exemption from the airline tax or is compensated in other ways. The Paris climate agreement means that global emissions must be drastically reduced. The flight is needed and is important for jobs, growth and good accessibility throughout the country. However, today's low taxation is not in line with the climate impact of aviation, and the systems in place in the EU and globally to reduce emissions are not enough. The Government's ambition is to introduce a tax on air travel. The Government therefore set up an investigation to review how a tax on air travel can be designed, so that the climate impact of aviation can be reduced in line with Sweden's environmental objectives. The proposals of the investigation have been referred and analysed. Many valuable referrals have been received. These are currently being prepared in the Government Office, and I do not want to anticipate that work. The Government will come back to the details of the proposal.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-504	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is an elongated country, which is why transport is required both within regions and more far away. Then you need the train, the plane and the car. A mix is required if you are to be able to plan and carry out your travels in the best possible way. The red-green parties have in recent years chosen to focus a lot on aviation and the car through new taxes, by raising taxes and by stalling certain infrastructure investments. One of these taxes is the announced airline tax. It is proposed that the tax be SEK 80 for flights within Europe and SEK 280 – 430 for flights outside Europe. This is opposed both to eight out of ten referrals and to us from the Moderates. The experts point out that a national aviation tax is hampering both growth and accessibility. Furthermore, aviation is already included in the European emissions trading system, an area in which the Moderates and the Alliance have pursued a more ambitious line than the Red-Green parties have done. A national aviation tax would in some sense become a dual instrument. If we go the same way as other countries that test a national airline tax, Kastrup Airport has really found its niche and something to cheer for, because the international flight from Sweden will move there. Some Social Democrats are aware of this; even if it is about airplanes, it is not rocket science. From Gotland to Umeå it is raging that this is a concession to the Green Party to get the government together, and I can agree with that to a large extent. In the next breath, however, it is mentioned that it is working actively for the government to introduce an exception for its own region. On Gotland, from which I come, social democrats assure voters that they are working for a regional exemption from the tax and that Gotland as a destination should not be affected when the tax is introduced. But the question is whether there have been any such requests at all to the Government Office or the Ministry of Finance – and perhaps even more if such wishes or ideas are at all feasible if they should come. Or are they contrary to the European Union's state aid rules? Therefore, I have asked this interpellation – to ask Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson if there is any proposal or work within the department that includes an exemption from the national air tax for any of Sweden's regions, or any other financial compensation. This is perhaps more specifically the case with Gotland, which one can say is unique because we are a region that cannot be reached by train.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-511	Mr President, I would like to As the matter is being prepared in the Government Office at the moment, the interpellation debate will be a little scarce. I'll start by commenting on a few things. As far as emissions trading is concerned, it is quite correct that aviation is part of emissions trading, and this has been taken into account when determining the level of aviation tax. It's important to have with you. It is also the case that quite a number of countries in Europe have a flight tax, and the background to the fact that many countries have chosen to have it is, of course, the fact that aviation is one of the modes of transport that is most dangerous to the environment but in relation to many other modes of transport lowly taxed in terms of climate emissions. It is difficult to justify now that we have a major climate agreement from Paris. Of course, we need to live up to it in one way or another, and that is the context in which we are discussing air tax. With regard to regional derogations, it is the study's assessment that the proposed level of taxation should not provide for any form of regional exemption. The study estimates that the tax will have very limited regional policy effects. Perhaps you can understand that – on Gotland, the cost of parking a day is greater than the flight tax, if I remember correctly. Taking the bus to or from the airport costs about SEK 20 less than the airline tax. I can therefore understand that, from this point of view, the investigation considers that it will have no significant impact on regional development. If some form of regional derogation is to be made, it is most likely something that would have to be approved by the European Commission. Of course, this depends on how it would be designed, but in all likelihood it would require state aid approval by the EU.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-516	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. The Minister of Finance mentions two things that I think it is worth addressing when it comes to air tax. Firstly, the Paris Agreement is a global agreement on something, and it makes sense when the environmental issue is just so global. One simply needs to agree between countries and not have one's own control systems, but a common goal and common tools. This has also been taken up by Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. She said only at the end of last year that she would like to see solutions within ICAO to meet aviation's emissions challenges, and now it is on the way. I very much welcome the conclusion of such international agreements for aviation. Secondly, when it comes to comparisons with parking, I can only say that the local red-green rule increases the parking fees on Gotland, so we will see how long they are above what the airline tax will cost. I will take some concrete examples of what actually happens to Gotland as a destination and place to travel with a flight tax. First of all, the air tax means that a fully operational route can be forced to close at Visby airport on Gotland. One of the companies operating the route between Arlanda and Visby has already announced that several departures can disappear and, in the long run, that the entire traffic to Arlanda is threatened, in favour of the traffic to Bromma. This would seriously impair accessibility to Gotland, as we do not have the option of taking the train. Another concrete example is that Gotland as a destination and conference opportunity is affected. Of course, it can be recognized from other social democratic rhetoric that the airline tax is only a few extra crowns and not so much to complain about, but then you should remember that it is already quite expensive to travel to Gotland. Tell them that a company is having a conference and wants to send 25 people – for them it is about several thousand SEK extra with the new airline tax. If three or four such trips disappear, hotel nights and restaurant revenues will also disappear. There'll be rings on the water. In addition, as a final input, we should be honest that Gotland's role as a national destination is not a natural law in any way. The so-called Stockholm Week has lost visitors and reputations in recent times, simply because it is cheaper to go to Ayia Napa than to Gotland. Almedalsveckan, which is another popular week, is threatened because local social democrats have raised land rents significantly. Many Gotlanders testify that local bookings and hotel reservations are not at the same level as before, and in addition, the Prime Minister chooses to spend the week elsewhere. All in all, the government is pursuing a policy that risks Gotland's development and competitiveness. Therefore, I would like answers a little more black in white: has the possibility of introducing any regional derogations been completely excluded? I think, of course, that it would be better if the whole proposal were thrown into the trash basket, but I suppose that would be the death blow of an already crisising Green Party. I would also like to ask whether there are any other possibilities for financial compensation for Gotland. It may be that you introduce the airline tax but find other charges that you exempt Gotland from. There are a number of examples of this, and I believe that the Minister for Finance is more knowledgeable than I am in terms of how to make it purely bookkeeping.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-525	Mr President, I would like to Gotland as a tourist destination is incredibly important for Gotland. It is also a fantastic tourist destination for the rest of Sweden, and there are many around the country who long for the opportunity to go to Gotland and take part of the beautiful nature and the wonderful calm that is there. Gotland has really managed to profile itself as a holiday resort, but also through the fantastic events that exist – it is not only Almedalen and Stockholm Week, but also Medieval Week is something that generates a lot of tourist revenue for Gotland. Gotland is an important tourist destination for Gotlanders and others in Sweden, but it is also important that there are good opportunities to live and work on Gotland during the other parts of the year, when tourists may not be as many. It is of course important that there are good opportunities to educate and work on Gotland, and the cooperation with Uppsala University that exists on Gotland is extremely important. It also increases the opportunities to operate on Gotland as a whole; for example, the opportunities to expand broadband and the major investments the government makes on this will of course be important for the job opportunities on Gotland as a whole. As regards regional exceptions and how the government works, it is of course an internal work carried out in the Government Office. We are sitting right now and going through the referrals we have received, and we have received many valuable comments. In that case, making regional exceptions requires further work, and there is a risk that it will take time to send something like this to the Commission. However, the government is working on the issue now and will come back with a position when we are finished with the analyses we are conducting in relation to the referrals.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-528	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Finance mentions Campus Gotland as an important player, and it cannot be overemphasised how much it does for future faith in Gotland that one of Sweden's youngest universities will become part of one of Sweden's oldest universities. It is very welcome. If the government wants to do something to ensure that there is work on Gotland all year round, it can start by releasing the proposals to make File Sharks Natura 2000 site. This is our big question right now, because if you go along the line that the Green Party wants, it is over with 400 jobs in the cement manufacturing industry, which provides jobs for almost the whole of northern Gotland and related to cement production. With regard to the air tax more specifically, the Government chooses to move forward with the proposal for a new national air tax, despite criticisms from eight out of ten consultation bodies, despite the lack of support in Parliament for the proposal and the fact that aviation is already part of the emission system. In addition to the fact that this proposal, which I mentioned earlier, represents a significant deterioration in opportunities for growth and accessibility, it can also contribute to a negative impact on GDP. For Gotland, the airline tax is a no-brainer – it should not be introduced at all. Nevertheless, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply that it does not seem impossible, so at least it is very difficult to make any exceptions. I hope that, for once, local social democrats can stop speaking with a split tongue. It is strange to say that this air tax is to be introduced, but not for us, not for us and not for us. If the social democrats of the whole country each get an exception, the question is whether the tax exists at all.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-533	Mr President, I would like to As I said, the government has not yet taken a position on the airline tax, but we will come back with a message. We've set up an investigation and sent it out for a referral, and now we're compiling the referrals. We will then come back with information about the airline tax. It is important that we do what we can to reduce climate emissions. 2016 was the hottest year ever, and it is extremely important that we take action and take responsibility for our children and grandchildren. Of course, it is also important that there are good conditions to live and work throughout Sweden. We have often heard Moderates say in this pulpit that government policy will have devastating effects on jobs and growth, but so far it is going quite well. As far as the air tax is concerned, as I said, the government will return.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-537	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me what measures I have taken or intend to take to ensure the safety of the airports that will be controlled remotely. He has also asked me whether I believe that the security process has been right and, if not, what measures I plan to take. Edward Riedl has also asked me whether I intend to review the security challenges of simultaneous operations in Sweden. He has also asked me whether I intend to review the financial calculation for remote control and take action if it is not a profitable business. Finally, Edward Riedl has asked me – regarding a deal between the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration and Saab Digital Air Traffic Solutions AB – whether I believe that the deal has been right and, if not, whether I will take steps to correct this. Since the five interpellations concern different aspects of remote control, I choose to respond to them in a context. I replied on 28 February this year Edward Riedl to an interpellation on the same subject that it is the state-owned company Swedavia AB and its management that makes decisions on how the company's operations are to be conducted, which therefore applies to the company's airports. The overall answer is therefore that it is Swedavia AB that takes a position on its operations, its infrastructure and its investments. The Government reports annually in a letter to the Riksdag how the administration of state-owned companies has been handled during the year. The Swedish Civil Aviation Authority is a provider of air traffic services to Swedavia AB. The discussion between Swedavia AB and the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration on remote air traffic control is therefore not the subject of a government decision but an agreement between the client and the supplier. As regards the role of the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration in Saab Digital Air Traffic Solutions AB, I can conclude that the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority is a partner in the company. By virtue of its ownership, the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority has representation on the company's board of directors. According to oral information provided by the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration, it will be ensured that the same persons who have a role in the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration's procurements of the relevant technology on behalf of the Authority are not also on the board of the associated company. The company has been operating long-distance air traffic control from Sundsvall Central Station for Örnsköldsvik Airport for a year. The centre of Sundsvall is the first in the world where remote control air traffic control can be conducted, after the Swedish Transport Agency's approval. There is also a great international interest in the new Swedish technology for remote-controlled air traffic management, which can mean new jobs in Sweden, linked to remote-controlled air traffic management. The Aviation Administration's management is responsible for ensuring that the operations are carried out in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. This applies both to procurements carried out by the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority and to the safe conduct of operations. New technologies must, of course, be introduced safely and in dialogue with those concerned. The responsibility for the safe introduction of remote air traffic control lies with the companies and authorities concerned. The introduction takes place within the framework of current regulations and is subject to the Swedish Transport Agency's approval and supervision. As Edward Riedl himself states in the background to his question, remote control can only be introduced after the Swedish Transport Agency's approval. Such an examination is carried out for each individual case. Remotely controlled air traffic management means that operations at an airport are made more efficient and that conditions are provided for increased safety and coordination. This can strengthen and develop the airport. The technology also provides a significant potential for redundancy capacity and creates better conditions to cope with possible disruptions. There are therefore great advantages to the new technology, but it is of course the airport concerned that decides which technology to use. I have also received oral information that the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority is conducting a continuous dialogue both with the personnel organisations and with local authorities and stakeholders on the issue of remote air traffic management.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-552	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. I have to start by saying that I regret that there is now a rather short period of debate on quite a few issues. What it is about is that during this government we have state-owned Swedavia and the state-owned LFV, which will make a deal that involves moving 50 air traffic control services away from locations such as Umeå, Östersund and Kiruna and moving them down to Stockholm. Although this government has said that it should move jobs out of Stockholm and out of the country, it does exactly the opposite. Mr President, I would like to I usually ask all the ministers I debate about how many jobs this government has moved to Västerbotten. I know the answer: until now, no minister has told us about any government job that has been moved to Västerbotten. Perhaps, however, the Minister for Infrastructure can do so in this debate. If, with the help of technology, it is now possible to do so, the reasonable question is why we do not move this type of job out of Stockholm and out into the country. That should be the point. There are a lot of questions. One of them is: Is it really cheaper? There is also widespread criticism of safety. The example mentioned by the Minister comes from last week. The Sundsvall air traffic control system, which operates the Örnsköldsvik airport air traffic control system, has had a malfunctioning operation and was therefore unable to receive aircraft. What happens when you roll this out at more airports? What happens if you shut down Umeå Airport for an hour, two hours or a day? This applies to sea rescue for a large part of Sweden, and ambulance flights and ambulance helicopters will come from all over Norrland to the University Hospital in Umeå.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-561	Sometimes, Mr President, we have to remind ourselves of what Sweden actually looks like. The airports in Umeå and Luleå are comparable to Bromma in terms of the number of passengers annually. Sometimes we have to see the size of this – if malfunctions occur, it becomes extensive. Swedish Television did a review of this and looked at how much savings would be made. At best we are talking about 1 per mille in savings. An arrangement where the state takes the risk of possible costs if this does not work out well while the private company that you create can make money if it becomes good is not an arrangement that I think is good. Mr President, I would like to I have two simple yes-or-no questions for the Minister to whom I hope I can get an answer today. Does the Minister feel confident about how this deal has been done, despite the review that SVT has done? The second yes or no question is: does the Minister see that this leads to cheaper air traffic management and maintaining safety? Finally, I have a bonus question. Why don't you move this kind of job from Stockholm to the country? If it is now possible with technology's help to sit in principle anywhere and air traffic flow, there is no point in moving that kind of job to Stockholm, where it is a higher salary and higher cost in terms of premises. There's no sense in moving jobs that way. I hope, Mr President, that I can find answers to these questions.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-569	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with the last question. I am quite sure that I have responded earlier in this House. Where Swedavia wants to conduct its business and in what way they choose to organise it is something that Swedavia must respond to, and it is not subject to government decisions. What Swedavia itself states on this issue is that they can benefit from further digitalization in this case Arlanda Airport, where remotely controlled air traffic control towers are only part of a major digitisation project that is intended to be pursued. I can't judge whether it's a good way to do it or not, but I trust Swedavia knows what they're doing with their business. It is a bit the same with regard to the other issues. I must say that I am extremely proud that we have a climate in Sweden where public authorities, public companies and private companies jointly develop new technologies. It can create better conditions for accessibility, efficiency, increased security and redundancy and also be a very good deal, which can mean more new jobs in Sweden and contribute to a positive development. I am very much in favour of new technologies and the opportunities that new technologies create for us people, for example, to operate air navigation services for a greater part of today's hours and the days of the week at airports where the traffic data may not really allow it today. This provides, for example, conditions for medical transport and rescue services for a greater part of the week's hours than is currently the case. It is possible that Edward Riedl has a different view of technology development, and if so, he will be happy to explain it. When new technology emerges, it should of course be ensured that it works safely. It is therefore positive that the Swedish Transport Agency has had such an active part in ensuring that, at every stage of the process, the new technology complies with the requirements for air traffic management safety and that it has received the necessary permits to operate. I trust that the expert authority will make exactly all the demands that are to be made that this is a safe operation. Whether this will save money or not, there are slightly different opinions about it. What the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority describes is that this development can provide a more efficient air traffic management system that can coordinate its operations, does not need to keep airports open as before and can thus offer better service at a lower cost. I have no reason to make a different assessment than either Swedavia or the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration in that part. All in all, I can say that there are of course always risks with new technologies, and we shall take these into account, counteract and manage in such a way that security and order can be ensured. But to question, as Edward Riedl, in interpellation after interpellation, whether the new technology is good is a little defensive, I would say. I would like to put some counter-questions to Edward Riedl. What does Edward Riedl think the government should do with the new technology? Should we throw it in the trash bin and let other countries run ahead? Should we tell our state-owned companies that they should not exploit the possibilities of technology? Or what is Edward Riedl's proposal?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-577	Mr President, I would like to It sounds to the Minister like all this is self-evident, but it is highly questioned by quite a lot of heavy players in aviation, both in Sweden and outside Sweden. It is not that this is something entirely unproblematic. It is simply ultimately a matter of aviation safety. There are expert organisations in Europe that go so far as to even ban this type of activity, which is the basis for implementing these savings. One thing that the Minister does not mention, Mr President, is that the new technology should not only be able to take care of an airport, but should have simultaneous functions. That is to say, the savings of 1 per mille on the business are an infinitely small saving that one can do best. This requires that an air traffic controller can control more than one air navigation tower. Most experts in the industry – pilot unions, pilots, expert authorities and – organisations in and outside Sweden related to aviation – say that they are a little hesitant about this, for good reason, because they want to maintain safety. This is therefore the basis for the savings of 1 per mille. If you are not allowed to make the simultaneous landings, it will actually be more expensive. SVT's review showed that with LFV's figures, it will be more expensive in the end if they are allowed to carry out what few think they should be able to do. Mr President, I would like to You should move a lot of jobs from the country to Stockholm and take a lot of risks, even though a variety of organisations, pilots, air traffic controllers and others say: This doesn't make us feel comfortable. It wants to implement this without, in the end, likely to lead to savings. I find that very hard to understand. As far as the Minister's question is concerned, I have nothing against technology. I think it's good. This technology began during the alliance period. I basically have nothing against technology and testing it. But this is not about rolling it out at smaller airports to try out, it is about quite large airports in Sweden. It's about Malmö and it's about Umeå. I sometimes believe, Mr President, that it is good to remind you of what it actually looks like in Sweden. Umeå airport is about half of Bromma airport. Malmö is a giant airport. Operational disruptions similar to those we had last week in Örnsköldsvik, with this technology at such airports, would have a major impact on sea rescue, ambulance transport and thousands of daily commuters. It will have enormous consequences if you roll out this technology before it is completely finished. In fact, there is reasonableness in that criticism. The Minister said a lot of things in his last speech, which, unfortunately, I will not be able to respond to during this brief debate. But be assured that I will come back with more interpellations, because I think we should debate this at length. One of the things I am thinking about, Mr President, is that the Minister says that she feels confident that there will be frequent shots between LFV, Swedavia and the new company. But the one at LFV who has driven through this deal is now in the new company and is on the board there. I do not think so, Mr President, but I and the Minister may have different views on this. One can question some of the benefits of this. At best it will be a saving of 1 per mille, but it is based on that it is simultaneous landings. I would like to know the Minister's views on this.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-586	Mr President, I would like to I haven't said anything about watertight bulkheads. I have said that the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration has reported orally that the same people who are in the purchasing function at the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration should not be on the board of directors of the company. This means that if you are responsible for purchasing at the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration, you should not at the same time have an interest in the company. I think that is a perfectly reasonable order. But watertight bulkheads are difficult to have because the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority is a partner in the company. That would be a completely unreasonable position to take, and it does not have this minister either. It's great that Edward Riedl is in favour of technology. But the interpellations and the spirit in which they are set and the insinuations that come from both the speaker's chair and the interpellations suggest that Edward Riedl wants the new technology to exist but not to be used, which is a rather strange attitude. It is also insinuated in these issues that the Swedish Transport Agency has failed to set the right safety requirements and that the work has not been carried out properly because this activity is currently conducted with the permission of the Swedish Transport Agency and because the Swedish Transport Agency has been involved in ensuring that all the regulations that exist in this area are complied with – and they are numerous and comprehensive, and it has been an enormous amount of work. Claims Edward Riedl that the Swedish Transport Agency has not done its job of ensuring safety before allowing this, I think Edward Riedl should say so. In that case, it is a serious criticism of the authority, which in that case needs to be dealt with in special order. My view is that the Swedish Transport Agency has worked with this seriously, that the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration has handled it seriously and that Swedavia is now looking at opportunities to use the new technology to streamline its operations, for the benefit and benefit of air passengers and airlines throughout Sweden. I think that's good. It goes without saying that we must set high standards of compliance with safety and that the calculations you make are of the same standard. I assume that the boards of Swedavia and the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration do so. They hardly have an interest in doing bad business. However, there is nothing to substantiate what Edward Riedl suggests: that this could be much more expensive. It is a submission from an organization that thinks so, but here there are different opinions. I find it hard to see how Edward Riedl's statement would be more right than anyone else's.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-593	Mr President, I would like to We will probably have reason to return to this debate. Basically, it is about the government going to elections to move jobs from Stockholm out of the country. Government agency work was to be carried out in the country, but in fact it was the other way round. The government can actually influence the state companies. If you want to move jobs in the country, it's quite possible. If technology enables what the Minister says, then you can move the jobs from Stockholm out into the country instead of doing exactly the opposite. Let me return to the scrutiny that Swedish Television did. Some reasonable questions were raised here, and some concerns were raised. I think that the criticism is reasonable and that it should be taken to heart. In fact, the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration's own figures, not those that SVT produced, show a saving potential of 1 per mille. I do not refer to any salary consultant, as SVT did and could point out that it would even be negative, but the assessment is reasonably the same. If the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration's calculations are based on having simultaneous landings, i.e. one traffic controller can handle several airports, thereby saving a whole per mill of the costs of the operation and most people think that one absolutely should not do this, I am thinking about whether there really is a saving in the end. The Minister does not give a reasonable answer here. There are also criticisms of the business plan itself, but I do not have time to take that.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-599	Mr President, I would like to If I were moderate, I might have been a little cautious about criticising government corporate affairs, but we can take that another time. I note again that Edward Riedl is insinuating and spreading concern unnecessarily. In the last speech, Edward Riedl had the chance to say if there is a criticism that the Swedish Transport Agency has not fulfilled its mandate as a licensing and supervisory authority. There will be no such criticism, and I therefore assume that Edward Riedl agrees with me that the Transport Agency has fulfilled its mission well. As regards the saving potential of this project, it is of course the management of the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration and Swedavia that must assess and determine whether this is beneficial for their operations. Finally, the relocation of government jobs is part of administrative policy. It does not include companies, as Edward Riedl knows. More importantly, it is a total of 50 to 60 jobs in the whole country that can possibly be transferred to Arlanda. At the same time, this technology enables more expanded and better accessibility at airports located in other parts of Sweden by enabling them to have better opening times and thus be able to handle more take-offs and landings. It is in itself a good prerequisite for more jobs throughout the country, which I think is well matched by the few jobs that are directly affected. We are not just working on government jobs, we are creating jobs and growth throughout the country. We intend to continue to do so. We also intend to continue to be positive about new technologies that create new opportunities and better conditions for jobs and growth.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-604	Mr President, I would like to Erik Ottoson has asked me what measures I intend to take to enable the central bridge to be placed in a tunnel solution. A burial of the Central Bridge in Stockholm is an issue that has been the subject of proposals and discussions for many years, as also noted by the Moderates in Stockholm City when they recently presented the vision for a sustainable city that Erik Ottoson refers to. The advantages that such a solution would bring in terms of a more attractive urban environment in the central parts of Stockholm are, of course, clear. However, it is important to make it clear that measures linked to the Central Bridge in Stockholm in order to improve the urban environment are essentially a municipal responsibility. The Government's work on infrastructure planning is guided, among other things, by the goal that Sweden will achieve the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. At the same time, Sweden will be a global role model in the climate transition, and the national environmental objectives will be achieved. Important issues that the government prioritises are therefore better functioning, sustainable and socially efficient freight and passenger transport throughout the country and reduced environmental and climate impact. In autumn 2016, the Government submitted an infrastructure proposal to the Riksdag with proposals for a historically large investment in Sweden's infrastructure. In the bill, the Government proposed that the financial framework for the next twelve-year planning period, 2018 – 2029, increase by more than SEK 100 billion to a total of SEK 622.5 billion. The Riksdag has also decided in accordance with the Government's direction. On 23 March 2017, the Government decided on a directive for action plans. This means that Trafikverket and the county planners have been commissioned to develop a proposal for a national traffic law-crossing plan for the development of the transport system respecti ve county plans for the period 2018-2029. Trafikverket will present a proposal for a new national plan to the Government by 31 August 2017 and the county planners will present their proposals for county plans by 15 December 2017. The action plan identifies the actions to be prioritised. This work will examine and analyse new projects and measures at both national and regional level. Regional and local considerations therefore need to be made to see how the issue of measures relating to the Central Bridge can be taken into account in the context of this work. I do not, therefore, wish to anticipate this process and to comment on individual measures.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-610	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. The issue of placing the Central Bridge in a tunnel solution under the city has, as the Government says, been discussed in different contexts. The reason for this is that there are obvious advantages to such a solution. Not least, large spaces are released in the inner city of Stockholm that could be used for better things than driving a car, for example to homes and workplaces. This would create a better environment and better conditions for growth in central Stockholm. But, as the Government says, the development of the urban space is essentially a municipal responsibility. It is a little against this background that the question has been put to the Government about what action she is willing to take. On a preliminary note, I think that the Government's initial response left some interesting openings to which I have some supplementary questions. It does not completely dismiss state participation in such a project, I interpret it as. The Government may either confirm or deny it. It is stated in the interpellation response that this is not only a municipal responsibility, but also the work on the national plan that is now under way. Both the Government and I are familiar with it, but for safety's sake can stand the formalia repeated. It also describes the work on the county plan in Stockholm and that there could be openings there. I would therefore like to ask the Government: is this to be interpreted as an opening for state aid in the work of placing the Central Bridge in a tunnel solution? If so, does the Government believe that it is primarily a matter of national aid or is it simply a matter of aid through the county plan?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-616	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my reply, this is primarily a municipal responsibility. This is mainly because it is a municipal, and not a state, road. The measure as such, to bury the road, would be primarily an urban development project rather than a traffic project. The measure would not therefore improve the conditions for traffic, but it would provide better conditions for a living city. This means that it is primarily the municipality that is responsible. The county planners have some possibilities to co-finance measures also in the municipal road network provided that it is agreed within the region that these measures fall within the scope of the law. If the issue arises, it will primarily be dealt with by the county planners. This should then be set against other needs in the infrastructure of this region.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-619	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for the additional answer that contained an important clarification! The county planners – the county administrative board and the county governor – have a good knowledge of the area. There are certainly many discussions about what needs to be done in the county in question. Although I agree that the foundations of the acquis are fully in line with what the Government says, there are more and more initiatives in different contexts that loosen the boundaries between what is state, what is municipal and what is regional. An example of this is something that this government has initiated, the so-called urban agreements with state co-financing to take urban measures that in various ways create benefits, for example through public transport and cycling routes. It's not that black and white anyway. In this case, it is black and white, if I interpret the Government correctly and there is no need for any kind of help or support in the national plan. It should also be added that measures within Sweden's negotiations and Stockholm's negotiations, which are essentially county councils' responsibilities, have been helped through both state and municipal co-financing. However, the borders are loosened and agreements are concluded, or how one now chooses to describe it. However, I take it that there is no opening in this case to enter into dialogue or talks on agreements on a tunnel station. Is that correct?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-624	Mr President, I would like to I maintain my view since many interpellation debates and in many other contexts that we do not anticipate the work that the Finnish Transport Administration is now going to do to develop the national plan. However, I note that the urban environment agreements, Stockholm negotiations and the urban negotiations have focused on improving the conditions for public transport and bicycle measures. This applies in particular to the Swedish negotiations. In this case, it is more purely an urban development project. There are no real links to either improved public transport or improved cycling possibilities, at least not as I could see from the interpellation. It is, of course, possible for the City of Stockholm to apply for state-of-the-art money or to see if there are other solutions within the framework of the county planning work. On the other hand, Sweden's negotiations and the metropolitan negotiations concerning Stockholm recently ended. This issue has not been raised there. That, in the context of that negotiation, it would be possible to fill up further afterwards, I would consider it rather unwitting. At an earlier stage of the process, which has been rather lengthy – it has been going on not only for several years but for several decades, if you want to be careful – you had a choice between the burial of the Central Bridge and the City Line. After mature consideration, the Citybane option was chosen to create better conditions for accessibility for public transport. In that road selection they chose a little away the burial of the Central Bridge. But, as I said, if we agree on this priority within the region and think it is urgent to use county planning funds for this, I suppose it is free for the county planner to come forward with such a proposal. However, I am doubtful that it will have that dimension when it comes to other urgent measures in the region aimed, for example, at improving accessibility and increasing the share of public transport.
i-6c9EwsJqsqNMTgzjy25yty	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for the supplementary answer. Part of the proposal that has come from the Moderates in the City of Stockholm is that in approximately the same place a new cycle path from central Stockholm to Södermalm should be located to create better connections and better conditions to safely transport by bike in Stockholm – something that we all who have tried to cycle in the inner city of Stockholm appreciate. How far you can go with that is not something that I and the Government can find out during the one and a half minutes remaining of my speaking time. It is interesting to hear the Government's reasoning. I also do not believe that this can be pushed into any Swedish negotiation at this late stage. Nor do I think that it is possible to get it into anything else, except if a courageous government were to initiate a project in this direction that other governments have tried to find forms of interaction between the different divisions nationally, regionally and municipally in order to find synergies and common financing solutions. However, I take it that there is no such opening today in addition to the conventional processes, and that is in fact an answer enough to the question.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-634	Mr President, I would like to The state is entering with quite a lot of co-financing in infrastructure objects in this region and in the other metropolitan regions within the framework of the Swedish negotiations. It also violates the limits of responsibility, i.e. it co-finances public transport solutions. There are good reasons for this because this is a region that needs much more investment, not least in rail infrastructure, than regional and local authorities can bear. Then it is reasonable for the state to enter. If no initiative has been taken when the hearing was on the table and comes just after the hearing is concluded, the question may be asked why it was not raised a few weeks earlier. Then the question might have been taken into account in that hearing. Or it was realized that it might not have worked. If you plan for extensive measures to increase cycling and cycling opportunities in Stockholm, there are all the conditions for applying for funding from the urban environment agreements. On the other hand, it is doubtful whether a burial for 10–20 billion – depending on who you ask – stands in parity with the increased cycling that could be achieved with those efforts. The money could possibly be used more efficiently precisely for increased cycling. But I wish Erik Ottoson good luck in this work.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-638	Mr President, I would like to Olof Lavesson has asked me how I intend to act on the proposal for an event list and the comments that have come from the relevant consultation bodies. The Press, Radio and Television Authority has proposed which events should be included on an event list and how to define essential elements of the public and free television respectively. The Authority has not had the task of considering whether or not to draw up an event list. As I pointed out earlier, the referee gives a very divided picture of the need to introduce an event list, with votes both in favour and against. Analysis and careful consideration of this issue are needed in order to strike the right balance between, on the one hand, the freedom to conduct a business, the right to intellectual property, the importance of free competition and the autonomy of sport and, on the other hand, the fundamental right of citizens to receive information.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-641	Mr President, I would like to I want to start by apologizing for some limited voting resources, but I will do my best. This is the time when I usually go up and thank the Minister for Culture and Democracy for the answer, but such a thank you also presupposes that there is a clear answer. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for being here and therefore also having the opportunity to explain and clarify the government's position. For the audience, it may be interesting to know what question we are discussing today. I would therefore like to start by quoting the Minister for Culture and Democracy from a debate in this House last June. She then said: An event list is a list of events deemed to be of such particular importance to society that it must be possible to take measures, if necessary, to protect the right to information and ensure wide public access to television broadcasts. In other words, an event list provides an opportunity for the State to restrict rights of rightholders in favour of citizens' need for information. That is what this serious restriction should include that we are going to debate here today. Already when the Broadcasting Act was established in 1998, there was the possibility of introducing a list of major events that could be seen by a larger part of the population. Such a list means that the state determines which events are to be covered and the conditions under which they may be broadcast. So we are talking about quite a lot of interference in the free flow of information and free competition, something that I think we can all agree that the state should be rather restrictive with, especially in times like these. The then S-government considered that there was no need to use that opportunity, and the alliance government had the same view. Moreover, today the television market is more differentiated than before. Swedish TV viewers have a significantly larger range of channels to watch and more platforms to access the range. However, this did not prevent the Green Party from settling with Swedish democrats, Left Partyists and Social Democrats about announcing something quite different in 2014. I think we all remember how the Left's party leader Jonas Sjöstedt complained that he could not turn the Olympics into the summer house. I don't know how much this affected the whole thing, but now you're sitting with the announcement on your own lap. In February 2016, the Swedish Agency for Press, Radio and Television presented its proposal for an event list. This means, in principle, that events of national interest should only be able to be broadcast in channels that reach at least 90 per cent of the population and that do not incur any additional costs other than the radio and television fee. After the consultation round, the criticism is fairly consistent from sports players and independent broadcasters who are now at risk of having their chance to broadcast major events severely limited. The new, higher coverage requirement – 90% – risks shutting out a number of TV operators apart from SVT and TV4. The Swedish Sports Federation's objection is clear: the proposal for an event list would mean a significant departure from the autonomy of sport. Whether the list itself is relevant can be discussed, and the proposal made by the authorities is rather arbitrary. Most cultural events are not included at all. In a few weeks' time, the world's largest award for children's and young adult literature will be awarded here in Stockholm in the form of the Astrid Lindgren Memorial Award. Shortly thereafter it's time for the Polar Prize and then the Birgit Nilsson Prize, two of the world's largest music prizes. Are these events not relevant, or for that matter royal weddings or, in the worst case, funerals, something that is also not considered to be of national interest? Mr President, I would like to I think we can see that the proposal for an event list may have seemed fun at one time in opposition, but now it has survived itself. That is what the Minister himself suggests in his reply. I therefore have one direct question for the Minister: is it not time for us to put an end to this nonsense?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-655	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Olof Lavesson, for the debate, the constant one! It has been kept alive, not least because of the two announcements made by the Swedish Parliament. After all, an event list would restrict the freedom to provide services, as well as freedom of establishment, free competition and property rights. Ensuring that our many different media players have good conditions to operate under is one of my most important tasks and something that I have emphasised in the two and a half years that I have been responsible for media policy in our country. At the same time, there are many strong voices that speak for an event list. Lavesson lists some of the strong and large players who have spoken against, but there is also a list of players who are positive, including Teracom, the Swedish Parasports Federation, the Swedish Sports Federation and SVT. They clearly explain how an event list could mean some insurance against the fact that only those with pay-TV can see these important events that many want to share feelings for and around. More people see the events if they are shown on free television, and wide access to major sporting and cultural events could tie us together. There are also many counter-arguments. The Competition Authority advises against introducing an event list. TV4 and several of the major media companies are also negative and point out that the market itself is capable of meeting the needs. Moreover, the rapid change that is currently taking place in the media area means that the regulation of a fixed list could quickly become out of date. Another and perhaps one of the strongest arguments against an event list is the consultation of the Administrative Court, in which they question the government's competence to define by regulations the props of the law, essential part of the public. The court is also doubtful whether the government can decide from when the list will take effect without a specific delegation clause. It would therefore take a long process to listen to what the Administrative Court says. In order to make a good decision on this matter, despite the two announcements that we shall obviously respect in the order in which we have it, we need careful evidence and further preparation. We're not there yet.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-664	Mr President, I would like to I think that the issue of an event list quite clearly demonstrates the problems that may arise when opposition is quick to decide on announcements which must then be dealt with by themselves after a change of power. The tone here in Parliament was quite high when the minister's own party pushed through the proposal with an event list. We are now a little more humble in the face of the problem posed by the proposal, and I am grateful for that. The Minister for Culture navigates with some caution in the debate, and I understand that. In other contexts she has been more clear about the problems, and I am also happy about the last post where she really describes the problems that a list would entail. Sometimes it feels like the Minister for Culture would be an excellent debater against his own proposal. In a written answer to a question from Rossana Dinamarca earlier this spring, the Minister of Culture notes that technological development has started and that more and more television services are being distributed via broadband and received on other screens. The population coverage requirement can therefore already be considered to be met. Here again today, the Minister is talking about freedom of trade, the right to intellectual property, the importance of free competition and also the autonomy of sport. To this can be added the financial consequences for the broadcasters excluded from broadcasting the events and thus miss out on large advertising revenues. In addition, it would risk significantly increasing the costs of Swedish Television, which would be expected to broadcast considerably more events and thus bear higher rights costs. An invoice to the Ministry of Culture is to be expected. The introduction of an event list would therefore not only interfere with the freedom of trade and the possibility of effective competition, but also risk further interference in the independence of public services, as it would raise demands and expectations about what and what programmes need to be broadcast in one of the national channels. It is also remarkable, Mr President, that with the proposal for an event list, the government chooses to depart from a long tradition: that the independence of the sports movement be respected and defended. It is not only about the right to experience major events, but also about the opportunity for the sports movement to receive fair compensation for its rights. If the government were to decide to severely limit the possibility for more players to compete if the events would also risk the revenue of the sports movement. The fact that the state then lists which events and programmes the Swedish people should see is a fairy tale in itself. Just look at the list proposed. It is a number of sporting events that prompt the state to make these vigorous interventions in the freedom to conduct a business. But there does not seem to be anything else that would be of national interest. The Minister for Culture mentions that there could be cultural events. The only non-sports activity on the list is the Nobel Festival – not the Nobel Prize Ceremony, Mr President, but the Nobel Celebration. To see some of the world's greatest brains come to Stockholm and receive prize from the king's hand is obviously less important than watching the Prime Minister eat ice cream. Please, Minister of Culture and Democracy! The Minister calls for wise decisions. Surely the most sensible decision is to close this. Drop the motion! In fact, there are excellent regulations today that achieve exactly what the Minister wants to achieve. It is better to devote oneself to and focus on creating good conditions for public service and good conditions for technology that allows you to experience this throughout the country than adding additional hours and time to an event list that will never become a reality.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-674	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Member of Parliament, Olof Lavesson, for his commitment to this issue. He also wants to give me a call when it comes to not meeting Parliament's announcements. The fact that the chairman of the Committee on Culture is speaking in front of this makes me wonder a little bit. Is it something that Olof Lavesson and his party colleagues often point out to me on many other issues – not least when we stood here a year ago and debated film policy – it is really important to respect Parliament's announcements. With force, Olof Lavesson describes how I now have the egg in my own nest from the two announcements made by the Riksdag. My question to Olof Lavesson is simply whether he means that I should not accommodate them. I would like to hear a little comment on that. For the rest, I would just like to highlight the challenges that lie ahead with the proposals before us. This applies not least to what many of the consultative bodies describe. There's a lot to talk about. But there are also, one should remember, several consultation bodies that strongly speak for this and see the importance of satisfying that many people can share the experiences that are proposed. But I would like an answer to the question of not responding to Parliament's announcements, something that Olof Lavesson often talks about warmly and widely in many other cases.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-677	Mr President, I would like to Announcements can have causes in many ways. You can avoid them by thinking ahead. The previous government did so when it came to the event list. That is why that government was such a powerful opponent of it, as previous S-governments have been. Announcements can also lead to reflection, and that is what the Minister of Culture is now allowed to do when she has to deal with this ill-thought-out announcement that her own party has pushed through. I am not just chairman of the Culture Committee. I am also a cultural political spokesperson for the Moderates. There can be no doubt whatsoever about where we have always stood on this issue. I think it must feel safe and comfortable for the Minister of Culture to know where she has the opposition – that you do not waver and turn your coat after the wind, but stand by what you have said. But I am grateful for the answer today. I hear what the minister says, between the lines. This is not something she wants herself. I can tell. Since I now think I know the Minister for Culture quite well, I must say that it would surprise me if it were her proposal to pursue the kind of socialist policy that an event list would entail. I just wish she could have been even clearer in the debate today. But, as I said, I hear between the lines, and I expect that we will not have proposals on Parliament's table for the introduction of an event list.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-680	Mr President, I would like to I thank Olof Lavesson for the debate and for his commitment. There's an investigation. There are referrals. There are many questions to weigh. We need the right balance between the need for free competition and citizens' fundamental rights to receive information. In other words, there are many questions that need to be straightened out, and the question of whether an event list requires further careful preparation. We will come back to the matter.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-682	Mr President, I would like to Anti Avsan has asked me about the terrorist threat and the return of terrorist fighters and asked for my view of the fact that many municipalities lack action plans to work with returning terrorist fighters. I have also been asked what initiatives the government intends to take to ensure that all municipalities have action plans and guidelines for the work of returning terrorist fighters and what initiatives the government will take to ensure that returnees are followed up by individual de-radicalisation action plans. Let me begin by emphasising that the work against violent extremism and terrorism is a very high priority of the government. After the terrible attack on 7 April in central Stockholm, the work continues with full force. There are many of us who are deeply affected by the number of people who joined in support of open and democratic society and how our authorities and central social functions acted in connection with the attack. We must continue to do everything we can to ensure that it does not happen again. Preventive work is long-term and must be constantly developed. The work against violent extremism is based on the agreement the government has with the Moderates, Center Party, Liberals and Christian Democrats. The obvious starting point is that the person who committed terrorist crime should be prosecuted and punished. A criminal investigation shall be initiated when there are grounds for suspecting a criminal offence. It is the judiciary and the Swedish Security Service who are responsible for dealing with people who pose threats to Sweden and who are suspected of crimes. The government has taken initiatives to strengthen the legislation and strongly strengthen the judicial capacity in these matters. If the Swedish Security Service and the Police Authority judge that there is no reason to suspect that a returnee has been guilty of a crime, it does not mean that society should step back. The municipalities have different conditions for dealing with this type of situation. When municipal activities, through the Swedish Security Service or the Police Authority, receive information about returnees, it is important that there is support and expertise to guide the municipal activities correctly. Most municipalities have developed guidelines and action plans as well as a readiness to address these issues. It notes the actors who have to support the municipalities in this work. In most municipalities and districts, however, work needs to be continuously updated and improved. As the Political Authority's report on vulnerable areas shows, many of the areas that have had problems with recruitment to combat abroad also have other very serious problems. Continuous knowledge development and follow-up are required in order for the work against extremism to be prioritised in the municipalities. The National Coordinator will meet all municipalities in 2017 together with the County Administrative Boards. In the near future, the coordinator will also provide guidance on how municipalities can develop situational images and revise the guidance for action plans. In July, the coordinator will publish situational images of violent extremism in Sweden and what is being done at municipal level to counteract such extremism. In order to clarify the chain of responsibility and the responsibilities of the respective authorities and municipalities, the Government intends to instruct the National Board of Health and Welfare to develop national guidance in collaboration with the relevant authorities, such as the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Police Authority. The guidance will, among other things, clarify the division of responsibilities and forms of cooperation for returnees from fighting abroad. The Government also intends to set up an investigation looking at the confidentiality legislation regarding the exchange of information between the cooperating authorities in the prevention of violent extremism and terrorism. When the activities of the national coordinator are made permanent in early 2018, at an existing authority, the intention is also to make the work towards the municipalities more operational. The Government prioritises preventive work against violent extremism and terrorism. We can't protect ourselves from everything, but we're gonna do everything we can to protect ourselves.
i-Qgw9GauP9Ki2ABRvpefiYY	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Initially, I would like to say that often when you talk about how things are, you tell us what it should be like and not how it really is. I do not disagree with much of what the Minister for Culture and Democracy says in his response. But I don't think I've got an answer to my first question. My first question was that it is probably a well-known fact that many municipalities lack action plans to work with returning terrorist fighters. Nor has the Minister for Culture and Democracy objected to this. But there is no explicit view of that fact. I myself find it sad, sad and sad given that these are shortcomings in the public administration of the problem that is very multi-faceted. In my interpellation, I mention some of the starting points for this. The reason I am talking about prosecution is that I think that a reasonable reintegration into society of people who have been away and may have committed crimes must begin with prosecution. You are not supposed to be able to get away with serious crime and then continue just as if nothing has happened when you have come back to Sweden. At present, prevention is also more diverse than the fact that it is just a matter of returning terrorist fighters. Returning terrorist fighters are people who have probably been radicalized, because that is why they have gone away and come back. We know from international research that about 15% of those who have left around 120 of the world today are prepared to carry out terrorist attacks at home in their own countries or in other countries to which they have gone after participating in various activities with terrorist organisations. Although they themselves are not prepared to make attacks or participate in them, they may be involved in radicalising others. They then spread the violence ideology that has such fatal effects for other people not only in Sweden but in very many of the world's countries. This interpellation is not an interpellation because of the terrible thing that happened on Drottninggatan in Stockholm. I asked it because I have been concerned about these questions since before. We know that many municipalities lack action plans. The national coordinator, too, is actually calling for what I am asking, namely municipal action plans and guidelines for the work of returning terrorist fighters. We have also had a criticism of the government for having a counter-terrorism strategy but not any concrete action plans. What I am pleased to note here is that what is in the reply from the Minister for Culture and Democracy is in practice a national action plan. It does not help to just work with individual municipalities or try to coordinate municipalities. We need to coordinate all the activities that bear on the problem that we are trying to solve. It's about the police, the Security Service, other government agencies and municipalities. Again, please come with an answer to question one!
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-697	Mr President, I would like to I can only endorse what Mrs Avsan says. Coordination and much broader and greater coordination are needed than has been the case. In the two-and-a-half years that I have been a minister and have had the national coordinator's office under me, we have greatly strengthened their work. As early as June last year, I commissioned them to come up with proposals on how to make our operations national, permanent and more operational. It was clear that that is what is needed. They've worked out a proposal. It's been out for a referral. Soon we will come back to how the business will develop and how to continue working on a permanent existing operating structure from the end of the year. With regard to the return team that Säpo, the security police, is responsible for, we have had talks with the Säpo manager about it. Like the defector group, it's a heterogeneous group. That makes the challenge of these groups great. There are individuals here, as the Member of Parliament describes, who are likely or at least potentially able to do great harm in society. Precisely because it is a heterogeneous group, many different efforts are needed against these individuals in order to be effective. They need to be almost tailor-made in some cases. You need to have many different skills to really reach and work with these individuals. The coordinator has a clear mission to support the work against these individuals. The government has committed funds to this work. But more will be needed. Säpo describes how they work with these groups and with individuals in the groups. It can be reminded that both the returnees and the defectors according to Säpo are identified. What the security police describe as a major threat are those who are radicalized on their own, perhaps behind their computer, which we find difficult to find and which we therefore need to work very broadly and purposefully on in order to identify and implement as early as possible. There I see that we need to further strengthen resources. It is therefore extremely positive that we have the agreement that exists between our parties and that there are talks going on in this now after the terrorist attack that happened in Stockholm. It will hopefully further reinforce not only the efforts but also the common view that this is a major threat to our well-being and woe for all of us in our society. These threats need to be vigorously combated.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-704	Mr President, I would like to I can agree with what was said about individual de-radicalisation action plans because it is not a homogeneous group. Of course, people have different motives for why they go off to fight for a terrorist organisation or participate in its activities in some other way. That is also what I have been asking you. In view of what the Government said about people being radicalized on their own at the computer, international research shows that it is not so common after all. The starting point is some form of personal contact. Then what is available on social media and the Internet in general is a sales support for the message they have received in some way. It is also possible that we may not be aware of all the people who have been radicalised or who have been radicalized. You cannot reasonably have that control of people. What is a bit interesting about today's discussion is that in Svenska Dagbladet at Brännpunkt, the party colleague of the Government, Gustav Fridolin, writes today about this particular theme. What the article points out is that, in order to have confidence in the open society that we all want to maintain, people should be confident that those who hold political power are doing what is possible to prevent and prevent acts. This includes legislative efforts to ensure that we can identify and address the violence groups before they reach their goal. I do not disagree with that. But my question, no matter what has happened in Sweden before, is: Do you really do that? Does the government do what it takes? We have known about the shortcomings for a certain period of time, and that it has become more topical to discuss them must not be dependent on the fact that individuals have suffered very badly because of the terrible thing that happened on Drottninggatan. This threat exists all the time. Does the Minister for Culture and Democracy think that the government has done enough? Or can we say at this very moment that we still need to do a little more and change up? The Moderates have quite a wide-ranging motion on powerful counter-terrorism measures. There we point to the need for a concrete action plan that coordinates all the authorities and all the activities involved in this. That is what the Minister for Culture and Democracy has confirmed. But there are also a lot of other things that we point to as extremely important. This also applies to the responsibility of municipalities. Is it enough to have a conversation with the municipalities? What is being done with those municipalities that do not address the problems? Does the Minister for Culture and Democracy consider that there is reason to consider legislation? How else are you going to force municipalities to do different things – or rather, make municipalities do different things? Most municipalities do today are government activities that they carry out because the Riksdag has decided on legislation on what municipalities are obliged to do. Is that not something that is so urgent that consideration must be given to speeding up and legislating on it?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-711	Mr President, I would like to The short answer is that we obviously need to do more – constantly. I have been repeating this for almost two and a half years. We have also increased resources in the field of prevention and in the field of counter-terrorism. We have changed the legislation in a number of areas. As regards the details of the legislation – what has happened and what is going on – I can refer to the responsible Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. With regard to the work on terrorism and the details of it, I can refer to Minister of Home Affairs Anders Ygeman. I will talk about the work to protect democracy against violent extremism, i.e. the work that needs to be done in the early stages and where we need more cooperation. To answer the honourable Member's question, it has become clear that municipalities need much more support and pressure. We need operational work. Let me repeat that that is why, as early as June last year, I gave this particular task to the coordinator. We now need to ensure that the operations are put in place with the necessary resources and with a definition of how to work. I very much welcome the fact that we have a common view of the importance of this work so as to ensure that the resources required also exist. Let me exemplify what has been done until now. The coordinator will provide a description of this in a few months' time. But we have also given both the State Department Board and the Prison Service and the National Board of Health and Welfare assignments that were not there from the beginning. This is because we have seen examples both from our country and from many other countries in Europe and the world of how people have been radicalised in our prisons. These are some important missions. We need to ensure that the confidentiality legislation as far as possible – there are ongoing discussions on this now and being prepared for an investigation – works to share the necessary information to enable the social services and the local police to carry out their important work in collaboration with the Security Service.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-717	Mr President, I would like to I think what I asked about the responsibility of municipalities is also the responsibility of the Minister for Culture and Democracy. It is fully in line with what is described in the national strategy against violent extremism that comes from the national coordinator. This must nevertheless be the responsibility of the Minister for Culture and Democracy. When you look at the measures that are being taken, you are a little frowned upon by what is at stake. Preventing at this level is about two things: support for defectors and an activity that has been partially criticised, namely a support telephone. I think it is rather poor, Mr President. There should be something else. Of course, support for defectors is good. It is a good idea to expand defection activities. But these are by definition individuals who themselves have decided to leave this environment. How do we deal with all these people who have been radicalized but who themselves have not been influenced by others to make new and better life choices than those they have exchanged for? It is a question of identifying these types of people and trying to find them and persuade them to change their minds. Now we know that the secret police have some calls, but here you can do a lot more. I think that the Minister for Culture and Democracy should, as she herself has said during this debate, move her fag and the national coordinator to add a little more to prevent it. The solution cannot simply be support for defectors and a support phone.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-721	Mr President, I would like to No, exactly – the solution cannot be just this. I already identified that in June last year. Therefore, the activities vis-à-vis the municipalities will become more operational, and it will become a permanent activity. It will no longer be carried out in the form of a committee. This is a work that we do not see an end to. On the contrary, efforts need to be stepped up here and we need to become operational. We need to support those municipalities that have not yet developed the work, and we need to ensure that the work is carried out from a national authority. I would like to emphasise once again that those who have committed crimes should be brought to justice. It is absolutely central to the rule of law in which we live, and the security police therefore also need the necessary resources to carry out their important work and assume their responsibilities. We need to ensure that the information that is available and that needs to come to the social services, i.e. the municipalities, also comes to the social services. It is a great need that I have identified and that we are therefore currently working on.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-723	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad has asked questions about contributions to organisations that run counter to democratic principles. He has asked me whether the government will take steps, such as setting up an investigation, to review the terms of state subsidies to those organisations not covered by the already ongoing review of state aid to the faiths. He has also asked whether the government intends to take initiatives to ensure that municipalities, county councils and regions do not use their public funds to organisations and religious communities that do not respect democratic principles. Civil society organisations are a central part of our Swedish democracy. Hundreds of thousands of Swedes engage every day in non-profit organisations and associations, in sports fields and in gyms, at scout sharks and in outdoor life, in study circles and in homework help projects. The meeting between people creates a community that contributes to trust and cohesion. The Swedish state has for decades a policy that supports the commitment of civil society. However, contributions to organisations must be subject to strict control. Several regulations governing state grants to organisations contain democratic conditions that include, among other things, an organisation in its activities to respect the ideas of democracy, including the principles of equality and the prohibition of discrimination that must be fulfilled in order for the organisation to receive grants. The government is now reviewing which regulations do not have such criteria and whether there is a need to tighten up the democratic condition. Other actions include proposals for strengthening requirements for contributions to ethnic organisations and reviewing state support to religious communities. In addition to this, the Swedish Government commissioned the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society to report on how they work to ensure that organisations that receive organisational support also live up to the democracy criterion. In the case of municipalities, county councils and regions, they should take responsibility for ensuring that the public funds they distribute are not spent on organisations that do not respect democratic principles. This is an urgent matter. The government defends both the dialogue we have with the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats through announcements on the prevention of violent extremism and the agreement on measures against terrorism. These issues are a high priority of the government, and intensive work is under way.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-729	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke, for the answer to my interpellation! The Liberals submitted this interpellation on 6 April. The background is that we entered into an agreement with the government already in 2015 on counter-terrorism measures, but also radicalisation and violent extremism. Part of that agreement was that we should not have any public funds going to organisations or religious communities that in various ways support extremism, radicalisation or any other kind of violent message. One concrete result that we welcome is the review of the religions referred to by the Government. What we lack and have not yet seen anything concrete about are those who are not covered by the religions. Mr President, I would like to To those who follow this debate, I would like to say that, in the case of the religions, it is a matter of more than SEK 90 million per year that is allocated to them. We think it is good that this investigation is being carried out, but the large financial pot of just over SEK 300 – 400 million per year is distributed by the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society. They distribute money to associations and organisations, and they are not, we believe, covered by this review. I still want an answer to the question whether the government intends to set up an investigation or to review that part. I also noted, Mr President, that the Council of State does not seem to have taken on board the recurring examples of which one is absolutely afraid of – presidents, religious representatives and board members who sit in various organisations that receive money and who, I would say, do not follow Swedish legislation or these democratic principles that we talk so much about. The Government itself wrote an article almost a year ago, on 1 June, about measures against hate preachers and hate organizations. The question then is: have the support functions and regulations of ethnic organisations changed since last year? The review of the religions has begun. We know that. Have the procedures for paying subsidies changed since 1 June last year? The government wrote in that article that it is prepared to review this. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I would like to say that the government here says in its reply that in several regulations governing state subsidies to organisations there are democratic conditions. Have we not yet, almost a year after the article of the Minister for Democracy and two and a half years since the Prime Minister took office, made these efforts, despite frequent fraud and extremists and organisations that continue to take part in the state's public funds?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-736	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Roger Haddad, for the question and the debate. There are few things that upset me as much as when you use systems. Taking taxpayers' money and using it for things they are not meant for or going to organisations that are not on a democratic basis or that invite hate preachers makes me so unbelievably upset. There are many who can testify to that outrage. Not least, this was a big thing for me when, for a short period of time, I was the Director General of the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, appointed by the previous government, and raised this issue with, among other things, your fellow party members who were then in government. This is therefore an issue that I have carried with me, not least as active in the Scouts, the Swedish Church, the Red Cross and Save the Children and so on. This has been absolutely central to me. The money's supposed to work the right way. It is taxpayers' money, and it should go to democratic organisations. One should know that it is distributed SEK 12 billion in state aid via about 150 different grants by 25 different authorities to civil society. While all of this is being done by the authorities, it is also crucial for our system that individual ministers do not interfere and point out who should get what. Right? Then you end up with the Constitutional Committee. On the contrary, we must ensure that our authorities have clear rules and that they are followed and dealt with in the same way. This has been lifted for many years, much earlier than when we became a government, and yet not enough was done. However, we have done a great deal in the meantime since we took office. Now, listen carefully: we have paid attention and debated it, and that is the very basis. We need to ensure uniform treatment, both in terms of the definition of democratic conditions and in terms of how this is handled, because it has sprung. That is why we have a work in which we have now carried out an internal review, and in order to achieve consistency we have looked at how all these different regulations – there are very many – define the democratic criteria in different ways. An organisation should not be able to receive support according to democratic criteria from one authority but not from another because the criteria are different. We must mean the same things with what we write and with how we let taxpayers' money work. All departments are involved in the work on clear democracy conditions. We're the ones who've started this since we took office, and we're the ones who're working this out now. We also need to improve the procedures for granting subsidies to the authorities. Therefore, I have commissioned Statskontoret to conduct an agency review of the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society issues and in particular analyse the agency's grant management. In that mission, they shall also ensure that MUCF has the necessary tools to fully apply the democracy criterion and analyse quality assurance, monitoring and control procedures. This assignment will be reported by September 2017. We have also commissioned MUCF after the debate article – precisely to reach these groups that Roger Haddad asks for, i.e. those who are outside the religions – to account for how they work to ensure the organisations that receive subsidies live up to the democracy criterion. That assignment shall also be reported by September 2017. We have also set up an investigation to review support for the religions. The investigator will propose, among other things, a new regulatory framework for clarified requirements for democratic values. All of this, then, has happened and happens after we became a government, but there has been discussion of this for many years before.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-747	Mr President, I would like to I am not at all impressed by the Government's response. How can one stand in this House and be pleased that extremist, violent Muslim organisations are still and are receiving regular contributions from the authorities for which the Government is responsible? I have brought with me examples of a couple of decisions that the authority under the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Education has decided on. This applies to Sweden's United Muslims and, for example, the project Spiritus Mundi, which recently received a decision to refund grants. For example, when the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society examined Sweden's United Muslims in October, it was considered that they had not committed any errors and were entitled to the more than half a million they received last year. But two weeks ago, a new decision came from the same authority, which is under the authority of the Minister for Democracy, which stated that they should repay and that they are not entitled to the grant. How is it that, in such a short time, decisions on such important issues can be made so completely different? It is clear that the control is lacking. It is clear that the authority, MUCF, is not fulfilling its mission. I have seen a statement made that that decision has been taken because of sharper assessment. We can't just hope there's a tough case officer in an authority. Regulatory framework, structure, must be very clear. Imams and religious leaders who say twelve-year-olds are going to hell will not have a crown of taxpayers' money, Mr President! Those who compare girls to pure chocolate boxes should not have money. Many of the associations supported by these authorities have engaged hate preachers or preachers who advocate a view that is not compatible with democratic principles. This is true of the view of women, and it is true of how they have spoken anti-Semiticly or, for that matter, homophobic ice t. Two and a half years after the Government and the Government took office and soon a year after the Government wrote its article, the payments to these organisations continue. It doesn't make any sense. The Youth and Civil Society Authority is following a kind of guidelines for their review. I've spent a number of hours studying how they work. Mr President, I would like to They look at the statutes, annual meeting records, business reports and policy documents. It is very easy to access those documents, either directly or from the website. It also says that if necessary, they can look at news reports or visit the organisations' websites – if necessary. If it is that control apparatus, the tough control function, to which the Government refers, I am concerned. This is not at all an effective way of getting at the associations that we really want to get at.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-757	Mr President, I would like to Member of Parliament Haddad is inflamed, rightly so. It is terrible when taxpayers' money goes to anti-democratic forces, to hate. That is unacceptable. However, I think that we should calm down so that the criticism is directed to the right person. I am not responsible for the Government of the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society. I'm in charge of some thirty government agencies. It's not one of them. Anna Ekström is responsible for that authority. If you, Roger Haddad, want to talk more about how that authority is governed, based on the ongoing government dialogues, please contact the Minister for High School Anna Ekström. Nevertheless, I am Minister of Democracy. That is precisely why, now with Anna Ekström but also earlier with Aida Hadzialic, I have pushed to strengthen and ensure that we have democratic criteria that work and that they are dealt with equally in the various authorities. As I described, many different authorities provide support for civil society. It cannot be that one authority has a democracy criterion and that another authority has a completely different criterion, that one deals with different ways. It has to be equated. It is something that has been highlighted for a long time. It therefore raises a question. We have put a lot of activities into effect. We are now ensuring that the authorities are forced to make visible how they handle and work on these issues and what different criteria they have. But the issue was raised five and ten years ago, and the previous government did nothing about it, despite pressure and the fact that the issue was raised. It's easy to stand and scream now that a lot has to happen. A lot is rolling out, finally. Finally, we are reviewing all the contributing authorities. And as I said, there are a lot of people. It's 25 different authorities. Finally, we define what this is supposed to mean, how to do it. Finally, we have investigations that tighten the requirements. Finally, we see effects. However, if Roger Haddad wants a clearer approach to why a specific authority works in a certain way, he may, as I said, turn to the responsible minister for that authority or directly to the authority.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-763	Mr President, I would like to This is a remarkable debate. Why, then, does the Minister of State, the Minister for Democracy, come to the House at all and answer my interpellation on democratic principles in relation to grants and organisations not subject to review in respect of religious communities? Perhaps the Minister of Democracy should have handed over the interpellation to his colleague. Moreover, she and the whole government are collectively responsible for what they have done and have not done on these issues. It is not enough to say that it is terrible and that these organisations should not have any money. The fact is that these organisations still receive government grants from different types of authorities. We have also asked the government whether something can be done at national level in relation to the municipalities and regions that are involved in funding in various ways, with premises and association grants, and where control is poor. There are an enormous number of examples where it does not work. The Minister for Democracy herself refers in her reply to the fact that she has given one and the other assignment, that she has given Statskontoret a mandate. One cannot at one moment say, No, I am not responsible for this question, because other moments represent the government, in the interpellation response and in every media commentary on contributions to extreme organisations. It's untenable. Mr President, I would like to I realise that Minister of Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke does not want responsibility. She has not really done much about the problem, even though she wrote a really long article on 1 June 2016 and although she thinks this is terrible and unacceptable. I can only say that violent extremists, imams who want to throw twelve-year-olds in hell and those who have a hostile view of women continue to receive subsidies from the Swedish state. That is totally unacceptable.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-768	Mr President, I would like to It is unacceptable that tax money should go to anti-democratic forces. It's something that upsets and engages the government. That is why we have put in place a series of measures to tighten up the requirements and to ensure that taxpayers' money is not used to threaten, to hate and to spread the most terrible messages. We are currently reviewing the procedures of the authorities for grants. We have commissioned Statskontoret to review and conduct a government review of MUCF. We have ensured that MUCF provides a report on how they work to contribute to the right organisations. We are reviewing the uniformity of the various grant conditions. We have also set up an investigation to review how the religions work. What we are doing now is taking action, broad and most of the measures, which have not been taken before. They are now being taken, by this government, because we are the government. That doesn't mean we're happy with what it's like. We have added this broad spectrum of measures because we want to see change. The fact that I am here and answer the question is because Roger Haddad addressed it to me from a broad perspective of democracy. And I am responsible for what the government has done, based on the responsibilities of various ministers. It's no stranger than that. But that is the way that different ministers have different authorities under them. And precisely MUCF is not one of the authorities that I have under me. As Minister for Democracy, I am very pleased that the government, of which I am part, is now taking all these measures. We do not accept taxpayers' money going to hatred. They're supposed to be used for what they're supposed to be. Only democratic organisations should receive state aid, and we shall see to that.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-773	Mr President, I would like to Maria Stenergard has asked me whether I will take any steps to include eel fishing along the Gulf of Hanö on UNESCO's list of intangible cultural heritage. I have also been asked whether I intend to reconsider the decision not to include other intangible cultural heritage on this list. Within the framework of the UNESCO Convention on the safeguarding of the intellectual cultural heritage ratified by Sweden in 2011, Member States have the possibility to nominate for a list of intangible cultural heritage in need of immediate protection for the representative list of the intangible cultural heritage of humanity and for a register of good methodological examples. Sweden's commitment under the Convention is, inter alia, to ensure the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage within the country, to identify and define the various parts of the intangible cultural heritage in consultation with civil society stakeholders and to draw up one or more national lists. The Institute for Languages and People's Memories, which is the authority responsible for the Swedish work on the intangible cultural heritage, has so far mainly worked to build a national list. According to the Authority, continued work on this is necessary in order to be able to nominate for UNESCO's international lists in the future. The Institute for Languages and People's Memories believes that there are also difficult methodological challenges that need to be addressed continuously in the further work. The government considers it reasonable to listen to the expert authority's assessment of the matter. Resistance of nominations for UNESCO lists is by no means unique to Sweden – now that Norway has chosen to nominate, this is the first time a Nordic country has chosen to do so. However, there is no doubt that intangible cultural expressions are an important part of cultural heritage and that the Convention is important in preserving and developing it. In the cultural heritage policy bill, the government estimates that the international register of good examples of work to preserve the intangible cultural heritage already plays an important role in the Swedish work on the convention. This is why the government has recently nominated Sago district in Kronoberg for the register. If the national inventory work is further developed and the methodological challenges that exist within the work can be addressed, the government may in future make a different assessment regarding the nomination of UNESCO's lists of intangible cultural heritage. Such nominations shall then be based on a sound scientific basis and shall be based on the expertise of the Institute for Languages and People's Memories and other relevant knowledge institutions. Such nominations must also be shaped in democratic working processes that ensure the influence of civil society. Therefore, whether eel fishing at Hanöbukten in the future could be considered as a nomination is primarily a matter for the expertise to decide.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-780	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Now it is time for the world's countries to nominate living traditions for UNESCO's lists of intangible World Heritage Sites. It is based on a convention ratified by Sweden in 2011 and in many ways similar to the World Heritage Convention, which protects sites, buildings and monuments. The difference is that it lists things you can't take on, such as cultures and traditions. Getting more Swedish World Heritage sites is important for the preservation of traditions but also for contributing to important tourism. Norway has nominated folk music and dance and Belgium its beer culture. There are plenty of Swedish traditions to preserve and highlight. In Sweden we have for some time allowed the Institute for Languages and People's Memories to list Swedish living cultural heritage. There are among other things lucia, midsummer dance, mountain culture, coffee and the important eel culture along the eel coast for Skåne. This is what it says about it: aside from fishing itself, with its specific tools, knowledge and organization, it is about traditions and knowledge of food and meals, oral tradition in the form of stories and special names, building traditions and knowledge of the so-called homma boat. ..................................................... Eel fishing is now threatened, among other things, by international fishing and obsolete hydroelectric plants. But eel fishing and the whole culture around it is worth preserving for posterity and is also needed to preserve knowledge and care for eel. There, the UNESCO World Heritage List can play a role in the preservation of posterity but also in attracting tourists, as I mentioned. There are, in fact, three different lists: on the one hand, those who list cultural heritage with a need for immediate security and which is aimed at threatened cultural heritage, on the other hand, the representative list, which has a more general focus, and on the other, a register of good practice. If I were Minister of Culture and looked at these lists and were forced to prioritise, I would definitely give priority to those dealing with the threatened cultural heritage, in order to protect those who are being lost before it is too late. But that's not how the government works. This government writes in its proposal for cultural heritage: On the other hand, the government states that the international register of best practice can play an important role in the work of the Convention. Thus, the government does not want to nominate a World Heritage Site but chooses to only highlight good methodological examples. We would thus have a chance to highlight more world heritage sites, to promote Sweden and to contribute to increased tourism. We have an opportunity to secure the threatened cultural heritage for posterity, but the government chooses to refrain from it because it does not want to create value hierarchies. This shows only one thing, I think, namely that for the government there is a single cultural tradition that stands above all others, and that is the jante culture. Why is the government so inclined to preserve it?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-790	Thank you, Maria Stenergard, for the debate and for giving me the opportunity to discuss cultural heritage issues! It is one of my favorite subjects and something I have devoted a lot of time to, not least during this year when I have written Sweden's first cultural heritage bill and presented it to the Riksdag. I look forward to an exciting reading and debate in Parliament. As I said, this is a favourite subject, and I really want to highlight the Swedish intangible cultural heritage. But I am very careful when I discuss cultural heritage because there is expertise and a profession that makes its judgments and that I think we should listen to. I want to create the conditions for the profession, both for those in our institutions and for everyone who works with cultural heritage on a voluntary basis. When it comes to grading, it is not we politicians who should say what is important and perhaps be arbitrary and fight for it to be just Småland or where it should come from and so on. On the contrary, we should listen to those who, on the basis of scientific grounds and expertise, are putting forward proposals that we can proceed with. That is why the government has chosen to wait a bit. Isof, the Institute for Languages and People's Memories, estimates that there are difficult methodological challenges that need to be addressed before we can take the next step. I hope and feel relatively confident that there will be nominations from the Swedish side. We have a lot of amazing things. Some examples on the list were mentioned, such as coffee, but there is much more than that.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-795	Mr President, I would like to Today, Sweden has fifteen physical world heritage sites – Visby, Birka and the High Coast are some of them. Say what you want about the World Heritage Site, and you can have comments on the existence of political lists, but they help attract visitors from all over the world and pay attention to beautiful places. Now we have a great chance to highlight more cultural heritage, to promote Sweden and to contribute to increased tourism. To select some is not to belittle others, but unfortunately that is what the government seems to mean. For Skåne, eel fishing on the eel coast between Åhus and Stenshuvud, in the innermost part of Hanö Bay, is an obvious cultural heritage. There is a 40-mile stretch with a single continuous sandy beach. It is eel fishing that has given the coast its character. There are eel sheds, boats and pendants, drying racks for nets and homies. There have been 80 sheds. Today, 30 are in use. Ålagillet is used by our Scanian companies for marketing; up to 2011 about 140 different nations had visited the Scanian Ålagillen, together with Swedish and Scanian companies. And the tourism industry is becoming increasingly important for the Scanian, and Swedish, economy. I do not think we have time to wait in the way the government thinks it wants to do. As things stand, politics is killing eel culture. Since 2007, there has been a general ban on fishing. It prohibits the generational exchange of eel fishing. This means that when current eel fishermen stop fishing, not only eel fishing dies out but also a culture dating back to the 15th century. Traditions are not recorded. There are no courses. Rather, traditions walk from generation to generation. But the present generation seems to be the last. Many would no doubt object to eel fishing itself being a threat to the eel. I'd say the opposite. Eel fishing on the east coast is currently estimated to affect the eel stock in the Baltic Sea by 2%. It can be compared to the impact of hydropower. Between 70 and 90 percent of the blank eels die or are injured every year as they wander through the turbines of hydroelectric power plants. Hydropower doesn't need the eel to survive. But the eelfish need the eel to survive. That's why they're the ones who take responsibility. They're the ones who have the knowledge. They are, for example, the founders of the Eel Fund, who buy in and plant glass eel. Without the eel fishermen – no knowledge, no tradition, no culture. Are we really willing to risk it? Mr President, I would like to In his reply to me, the Minister points out that nominations must be shaped in democratic working processes that ensure the influence of civil society. That sounds good, but what does it mean in practice? Should the government choose to nominate for the international list today, in what way would that conflict with that claim? Those on the Swedish list have, of course, been carefully examined on the basis of a number of parameters of expertise, to which the Minister refers. Any real answer to why you do not want to nominate any cultural heritage, despite the fact that the Convention has been applied, I do not get it. To refer to the fact that, so far, only Norway of the Nordic countries has nominated is not good enough. We have come quite far in our national listing and have a lot to choose from. In fact, it seems to be the very fear of ranking the attitude of the government, and it is only to be regretted. This fear can ultimately contribute to extinct Swedish cultural heritage.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-807	Mr President, I would like to I do not quite understand why Member of Parliament Malmer Stenergard believes that it is fear of daring to rank that is behind this. I really want to make it clear that the expert authority in question, to which I believe it is crucial that we listen, believes that there are difficult methodological challenges left and makes the assessment that we should not nominate but continue the work before we can do so. We're making the assessment that we should listen to the expert authority. I am not afraid to take the next step when there is sufficient evidence. On the other hand, I am afraid of arbitrariness, I am afraid that anyone who screams the loudest wins the most, I am afraid of short-term trends that control judgements and I am also afraid of political mischievousness. I want there to be clear and understandable methods behind what we choose to invest and invest in. Whether eel fishing, which is an eco-partisan favourite subject that I like to discuss more in another interpellation debate, is the subject of nomination, I would like to leave to the expertise and profession. But I would like to emphasise once again the importance of arm's length. It's absolutely central. It should primarily be the cultural heritage professionals who think and propose. There should be sound arguments, clear and clear, and it should not be arbitrary or short-term trends that determine.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-811	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that the Minister rejects what the Government itself has written in the bill, namely that the Government considers that it should be a starting point not to create value hierarchies that rank the importance of different cultural heritage. It has been interpreted by me and the media lately as the government choosing to abstain, because it is afraid to create precisely hierarchies of value. It is incredibly positive that the Minister is now rejecting it. I understand very well that we want to be careful and that we do not want, for example, to listen to short-term interests. There is no risk of eel culture, as it has existed since the 15th century. There's no short-sightedness at all. The risk is that eel culture will die out soon, and that is what the Minister has to take a stand on and ultimately lies on her table and not on the advice of any expert. If you are going to hurry so slowly and listen to the expertise, what is the difference when it comes to the nomination that has been made into the methodological list? Why has it been chosen to highlight the story district from the minister's own home country already now? I hope that the government will dare to speed up this matter a little more quickly, and I very much hope that the government will be able to take a stand on eel fishing along the Gulf of Hanö. I thank you for the debate and warmly welcome the Minister to my and the other Vice-President's home country where we have eel fishing.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-817	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for inviting me. I'd love to take part in the eel fishing. It's something I'm interested in on several levels. Cultural heritage policy is a delicate task. It may seem to those who are not familiar with this as a simple thing and something that you can only think a little to the right and left around. But there is an enormous amount of knowledge, not least in civil society, that manages much of our cultural heritage on a voluntary basis – our homesteads and associations, but also our institutions. There is a profession that has worked a lot in the dark for a long time but now finally sees the light of day with a cultural heritage bill and that we debate and discuss the Swedish cultural heritage. How big is that? It has never been done in the way it is done today. That is why I am very pleased with this interpellation. I hope that we can continue this debate and discussion in various ways. When we talk about Swedish cultural heritage, researchers talk about traces and expressions from the past that are attributed value to us today. Tracks and expressions from the past that are of value to us today are a very broad definition. But that means that there are many things that many people want to see, and there are many things that perhaps some strong voices want to see on the various lists. As Maria Stenergard described at the outset, we are talking about three different lists. As far as the fairy tale district is concerned, it is another list. So there are many lists that you can be on, and everyone has its importance. I hope that we will come back, not least when it comes to eel fishing. But I am also very keen that we have methods to use when we take the next step.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-821	Mr President, I would like to Saila Quicklund has asked Minister for Public Health, Health and Sport Gabriel Wikström what he means by the fact that the quality of sports hours is too low and how the Government intends to act to remedy this. The question has been submitted to me for an answer. I would like to begin by saying that we have many hard-working teachers in sport and health who do their utmost every day to ensure that teaching is of high quality. At the same time, several of them face the same challenges as other teachers in terms of time space to be teachers, such as time for preparation and follow-up. The state's school inspection has in two reports, A lot of sport and little health, 2010:2037 and Sports and Health in comprehensive school, 2012:5, identified a number of development areas for teaching on the subject of sport and health. The Swedish School Inspectorate noted, among other things, that teaching needed to better reflect the curriculum and curriculum and that the vice-chancellors should ensure that the subject is fully included in schools' systematic quality work. The School Inspectorate also identified a risk that assessment and grading in the subject did not rely on the policy documents. Reports from the National Board of Education also support this picture. On 6 April 2017, the Government commissioned the Swedish School Inspectorate to carry out a quality review of teaching on the subject in comprehensive school (U2017/ 01691/ GV). The purpose of this type of review is to contribute to development and to be a development aid also for schools that have not been audited. The Swedish National Agency for Education offers teachers in sports and health assessment support and other support materials. Based on the commission on national school development programmes, which the government gave to the Swedish National Agency for Education 2015, the agency also offers support for principals and principals in the systematic quality work and in the work of steering and leading towards an education that promotes each student's development and learning. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to carry out efforts to improve the prevention and promotion of pupil health in order to support students' development towards the goals of the education (U2016/ 02937/ S). Within the assignment, the Swedish National Agency for Education has established a grant for health-promoting school development that principals can apply for, where, among other things, work with physical activity and pulse-enhancing elements in teaching has been granted funding. In November last year, the Government commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to review the need for more movement during the school day and submit proposals aimed at more movement for all pupils, both girls and boys(U2016/04956/S). The Government has also commissioned the School of Gymnastics and Sport, the Centre for Sport Research, to carry out an in-depth analysis of the sports movement's children's and young people's activities as well as the primary school's work with daily physical activity and teaching on the subject of sport and health (S2015/ 08201/ FS). Based on the implementation of the aforementioned assignments, the Government will take a position on the continued work of a school that engages and activates students into more movement and to strengthen the quality of teaching in the subject of sport and health.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-827	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Education for his answer. This interpellation slightly deviates from the usual routine, and I'll tell you why. Mr Wikström, Minister for Sport and Public Health, has stated on several occasions that he does not want to introduce sports and health lessons into school because of the low quality of lessons. Of course, this gives rise to strong reactions, among other things, from a group of teachers who feel distressed. As the Minister has just said, the teachers are working and doing everything they can to keep a high level of quality in class. However, it also gives rise to reactions on the part of the rest of us. What does the Minister for Sport and Public Health really mean? That was the starting point for this interpellation. Surprisingly, he does not want to answer the question; he refers to the Minister for Education. Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin will therefore explain today what the Minister for Sport and Public Health Gabriel Wikström meant by his statement. Well, let's take a look at what the Minister for Education has said, and I'll mention some of those things. The Minister refers to the School Inspectorate and its two reports. As we take a closer look at them, we see that they are seven and five years old. The answer also refers to the risk that assessments and ratings may not be based on the policy document. The Government has submitted a mission to the Swedish School Inspectorate to conduct a quality review of the subject of sport and health in primary school. The statement on low quality is therefore more an assumption and not certain, and that is why it surprises me. In the reply, the Minister also refers to the fact that the Centre for Sport Research will carry out a study on the activities of the sports movement for children and young people. In what way does the Minister think that the sports movement's activities affect sports and health in school? The sports movement makes fantastic contributions and social benefits; the 650 000 non-profit-working leaders are our everyday heroes in this. The Parliament has also evaluated the state's sports policy objectives for children and young people. It is a very comprehensive report that will be presented in the Riksdag on 11 May. After all, if many children do not reach sport because they do not have that culture and hindsight, the school's activities are very important for children to get physical activity. I am extremely surprised – and we have talked about this before – that the government, together with the Left Party, has actively chosen here in Parliament to say no to more hours of sports and health in primary school, with the major public health challenges we have. I feel that this is a great betrayal of the children and young people who attend primary school. Sweden has the lowest number of hours of sport and health compared to the other Nordic countries, and our number of hours is among the lowest in the EU. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Education how he thinks that Sweden is the worst in the sports and health class linked to the very big public health challenges we have.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-835	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Quicklund for the question. I think that's troubling. We see that young people are not moving sufficiently. We also see how this is layered, and in addition, it is increasingly layered according to socio-economic patterns. This, in turn, is something that of course covariates with the fact that school results are layered in increasingly socio-economic patterns – that inequality is increasing in Swedish schools. We know that it is good for health to move around, and the long-term is to put a culture and habit of moving early. It's also good for school results. If you move, preferably a little every day, you will also be able to concentrate more easily on the last lesson of the school day and to assimilate knowledge more easily. The question then arises: What are we doing to improve the situation? I tried in my answer to give a broad picture of it; that is why I also mentioned the mission to the Centre for Sport Research at the School of Gymnastics and Sport, which, in addition to watching the sports movement, is looking at the work of primary school with daily physical activity and the quality of teaching on the subject of sport and health. That is why I thought it appropriate or appropriate to mention it in response to Saila Quicklund's original interpellation question. Yeah, what do we do? Among other things, we are looking at the subject of sport and health. These are the times when the students according to the schedule should move and also learn what the subject of knowledge contains. In addition, you should put the early culture where students get knowledge and access to different sports and other opportunities to move around. They will learn about their body and how their health works. There we work to see how we can strengthen teachers in sport and health in their assignments, including through the quality review that the School Inspectorate is now carrying out and which I mentioned. It may form the basis for development work in individual schools or a government offer of such work. We also have the assignment that the Centre for Sport Research at the School of Gymnastics and Sport will soon report. In addition, we have a discussion about how many hours of sport and health there should be in school. It is true that Sweden is not only in sport and health but also overall lower than most comparable countries in the number of teaching hours. That is one reason why, for example, the School Commission has stated that although there are difficulties today in increasing the total number of teaching hours, because of the great shortage of teachers, that is something we should look forward to in the longer term. That is why I have presented a proposal to Parliament for a staged hourly plan and a better model for deciding on the hourly plan. It is currently being dealt with in the Education Committee. The second thing we work with is the ability to move alongside the scheduled knowledge subject of sport and health. If the curriculum is not sufficiently effective today, i.e. that the school should offer daily movement, it should also start to happen in schools. This is the assignment we have given to the National Board of Education – to look at how we can strengthen the writings of today's curriculum, how we can finance the municipalities for it and what good examples there are to spread. There's a lot going on here. I mentioned the efforts we are funding today through the state, such as pulse-enhancing activities every day. There are schools where an active decision has been made to have a mobile and screen ban on certain breaks to activate the students in motion. There are other examples of how to work in cooperation with the local sports movement. I believe that we must work both on the subject of knowledge of sport and health and on the daily movement alongside the subject of sport and health.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-846	Mr President, I would like to More than half of Sweden's population is overweight or suffers from obesity. These reports came as late as last week. As the Minister said, the difference between the high- and the low-skilled is very large, and it is growing. It's troubling. Physical and mental health plus shorter life expectancy is generally more common in people with a low level of education. Worst is it for those who do not have upper secondary education at all. We have also heard reports saying that mental illness continues to increase and that it is the young people who feel bad, which is worrying. Good and equal health is a prerequisite for the development of society. Reports show that strong public health efforts are needed in Sweden and that work must become an important part of social planning. Swedish doctors warn of a ticking health bomb, when many children are so fat that they risk getting diseases that destroy their lives: varicose veins, diabetes, joint problems etc. In addition, more and more fatter are getting earlier. In ten years the number of overweight children has doubled, and estimates show that every fifth child between six and ten years of age is overweight. Sahlgrenska University Hospital has seen a threefold increase in insulin levels, increased blood pressure during the night and a severe thickening of the left chamber of the heart leading to harmful effects in overweight 13-year-olds. If society does not do anything now, we run the risk of having a health situation in the country in the future that is completely unsustainable. The same report also gives us facts that call for at least an hour of gymnasium a day and more physical activity at school, even after school hours. We Moderates have taken this very seriously, and that is why we are proposing a 20% increase in the number of hours on the subject of sport and health. I'd love to see more, but this is a good start. The Swedish Sports Federation and researchers also propose this, and add that we also propose sport in Fritis. Here, the Swedish School Sports Association, together with the associations, will play an important role in reaching 500,000 children – about that many are on fritis today. For many children and young people, Swedish society is not a tradition, and therefore they have not come into contact with the sports movement either. This is a great gateway to more physical activity. In particular, this applies to resource-efficient people, children and young people who are able to approach sport and physical activity. How can we, with all the research and expertise that exists, actively say no to more sport and health here in Parliament? I have to get back to that and get a more detailed answer than I had before. I would also like to ask: is the Minister for Education saying that all of us who, depending on research and other things, advocate more sport and health are wrong? Do we have the power to do this and want this wrong?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-858	Mr President, I would like to No, and right should be right: Parliament has dealt with a number of requests for individual hours on individual subjects. The government parties have chosen not to assist these claims, but to await the process of the scheduled hourly schedule. A bill is now on Parliament's table – if it goes through, the government is in a position to make a decision about a staged hour plan. In this decision, we will take into account the many referrals that have been made on both the subject of sport and health and other subjects. There are strong voices in favour of increasing the number of hours on the subject of sport and health, and there are good arguments for this. At the same time, when I talk about strengthening the quality of the subject and about the possibilities and conditions for teachers to do a good job, it's not just about how many hours you have on the subject – 100 more hours means, the rash over nine years of school time, about an hour to every three weeks. It is also about the opportunities to reach those students who today come to a limited extent to the subject in the later years and the students who come to the classes, but according to the follow-up they do not move as much in the lessons. How do we ensure the conditions for this? We have state grants for teachers' opportunities to develop competence together. We also have support materials, which I mentioned in my interpellation response, and government grants for student health interventions such as pulse-enhancing projects. We are working on the prerequisites to give teachers on the subject of sport and health the opportunity to make sure that students move and get acquainted early with all the knowledge available in this field of knowledge. At the same time, we work with students to move more during the school day, also alongside the subject of sport and health. This concerns, as I said, the writing that is in the curriculum today. That wording is obviously too weak. I could have blamed this on my predecessor and on the government that presented it, but I assume that when this wording was drawn up it believed that it would lead to schools working more with movement, even though it only says This has not been the case. Follow-ups show that most schools lack plans for how to work for daily movement. Unfortunately, I believe that what the Centre for Drotts Research will show us once again underlines this. We look at how we can tighten up this writing in the curriculum, so that it is not just about the subject of sport and health but also about the daily movement and the school's work for this. We have to work on both fronts.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-867	Mr President, I would like to I think what the Minister for Education is saying is a little fuzzy, but we must continue to follow this. I am still concerned about the children and young people of the group born abroad, who we know find it difficult to get into the protection of the sports movement, so to speak. I still worry about those with functional variations and for resource-weak groups. We have to reach them. There are also challenges for the sports movement, but even more so for school. I am also concerned about the teachers' knowledge and interest in the subject that you, Gustav Fridolin, want to introduce – movement in general. The research shows that the activities should be pulse-enhancing. How are they to be carried out in the often cramped premises that exist? We also want 30 minutes of activity for the effect to be good. These challenges are great, and there are big questions when we talk about movement. The efforts need to be qualitative – we are not talking about arms upwards in order to break a lesson, in order for students to have a better ability to concentrate and so on, but this is more scientific than that. This is where I see the big challenges: how are we going to get this done? Many questions remain, and we will have to follow up on this. There seem to be a lot of ongoing efforts. We will see what the outcome will be, but I hope and believe that the Minister understands the seriousness of this and the major public health challenges we are facing. There is a large and broad support for more sport and health in school, and we take this seriously.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-873	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Saila Quicklund: We share this concern, not least as regards how inequalities in public health covariate, are affected by, followed by, and lead to an inequality in knowledge outcomes. Of course, by attacking one thing – by ensuring that students' knowledge is strengthened – we help the other. The same goes for the other way: Strengthening the movement at school and ensuring that pupils move in such a way that it strengthens concentration and early establishes good habits for public health affects knowledge. There is an opportunity here to do two good things at the same time, but then we have to do the right thing. The Moderates' proposal – so that it is clear here – does not mean 30 minutes with sports teachers at each school every day. You, too, have not managed to finance or find the means to do so. You have a proposal for another 100 hours. These announcements are made to the government, and we deal with them. The nine-year proposal means an hour more every three weeks, so it will of course not be alone – however good it is – to solve the major problems that Saila Quicklund points to. You also have to work with students moving alongside the subject of sport and health. This is not about either or about the possibility of both. It concerns both strengthening the subject of sport and health and the ability of teachers to do the good work they want to do as teachers and strengthening the activity of schools so that pupils move around every day.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-878	Mr President, I would like to Nooshi Dadgostar has asked me how I and the government want Nooshi Dadgostar refers, among other things, to the series of debates published by Dagens Nyheter regarding the quality of today's housing. I would like to start by expressing my concern at the signals that have emerged that sustainability is not a priority in today's construction. In a situation where construction production is growing rapidly, there is a risk of more building errors and shortcomings due to a lack of the right skills. The government is closely following developments, and I do not rule out the need for action. However, I would like to point out that the government is currently working on proposals on architecture, form and design policy. In doing so, Boverket has been tasked with reviewing the municipalities' work linked to architectural and quality issues, which tools and working methods are currently available within the framework of the Planning and Construction Act, other laws and regulations, and also non-legal tools and processes. An important task, for example, is to highlight the important role of public actors, in particular municipalities, both in the application of existing legislation and in promoting architectural quality and sustainable housing in planning, construction and management. High architectural quality goes hand in hand with good housing standards and good building quality, and our hope is that the new investment in architectural and sustainability issues will have a positive impact on housing standards and the quality of buildings. I would also like to mention the national initiative that the government is making on research into sustainable social construction, which should be based, among other things, on Agenda 2030 and the environmental quality objectives, such as Good built-up environment. The budget proposal for 2017 announced an increase of SEK 50 million in research on sustainable social construction in 2018 and SEK 75 million per year from 2019. When it comes to how the current regulations are designed, it is the developer who will demonstrate that all the requirements that apply to the building are met. If the Buildings Board considers that the requirements are met, a final decision is given. It is, of course, important that both developers and municipalities understand and apply the legislation in a uniform way in order to avoid, among other things, different types of building defects. Therefore, in 2014, Boverket was commissioned to carry out competence efforts to ensure that the new Planning and Construction Act is implemented and to promote a more uniform and effective application of the Act. The Government considers that continued competence efforts are needed and therefore intends to propose an increase of SEK 15 million per year in the period 2017–2020. To conclude, I would like to clarify the purpose of the thorough review of Boverket's building regulations decided by the Government in February this year. Nooshi Dadgostar argues that the aim is to reduce the requirement for good construction in Sweden. I want to make it clear that this is not the case. The aim is to modernise and simplify the regulatory framework. It is explicitly stated in the Committee Directive that this should be done without endangering health, safety, design quality, a good living environment and long-term sustainable construction. The Directives further state that the 2030 Agenda and its objectives are to guide the review. Agenda 2030 is the action plan agreed by the countries of the world to solve the global challenge of establishing economic, social and environmental sustainable development. The built environment affects all these aspects of sustainable development. A modern, timely and easy-to-understand building code is an important prerequisite for preventing building defects, poor quality and waste of resources. If housing construction in Sweden will continue to be able to maintain a high level, both in terms of quantity and quality, it is of the utmost importance that the building regulations are modern and timely and reflect the demands of society today.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-884	Mr President, I would like to It is nice that this late hour we are discussing the quality of housing construction. The reason I made the interpellation is the alarms that we repeatedly get that what is being built, not everything but a surprisingly large proportion, is not up to the mark. There are a number of reasons for that. Among other things, it seems that the entrepreneur has quite a lot of power today, i.e. he can create his tenant-owner associations and buy of himself. This means that the controller is the one who has built it himself. It simply creates a kind of conflict situation where the developer becomes less and less important in the process. The strength conditions have changed quite a bit since it has been an active developer who has checked in detail what is being built to that the contractor is actually the one who controls the process. We get alarms that there is quite a lot of junk material on the market that you like to muck in. It's enough to go outside and talk to your acquaintances. For example, many who have bought new production say that after a number of years things break down in the kitchens. More and more are being built without storage space. It's built pretty small these days. I have a rather great concern about the fact that at the moment it is increasingly moving towards overcrowding and poorer and less sustainable materials. That is also what we are seeing in research now, and it is also written a lot about in the newspapers. The government has decided on a review of Boverket's building standards. Of course, this is not the first time there has been an analysis of the construction industry; it has been done quite a few times in the last 15 years. However, I note that in the Government's directive to the investigation there is nothing about housing costs being low for the individual customer or the citizen. There is very little in the directives on quality, but it is about making it simpler and cheaper. And yes, it is cheap, what is being built, but it is also part of the problem. It can be cheap for the entrepreneur, but the prices are constantly increasing for the individual customer. It doesn't make any sense on the market. Instead, we run the risk of getting a regulatory framework that, as the Minister said, is simpler, which I believe is that certain technical requirements should simply be removed. That is how I have to understand simplicity, that is to say, that certain demands are being deleted. Then I have to ask: Does the government think that we have too high demands in Sweden? Are certain requirements to be removed? And why have the directives not specifically pointed to price pressure against the citizen, not for what is being built, and for quality – that what is needed must be of high quality? The building standards we have are functional requirements, so there is great scope, as I see it, to build well and compete well even with current rules. They're not the fault today.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-890	Mr President, I would like to There are quite a few different issues raised by Nooshi Dadgostar here, and I think many of them are relevant to discuss in this context. A fundamental question is that we are now building so much more than before. I think the main reason why this discussion has come up at all is that we have now had a different situation from having built far too little in Sweden for a long time. The entire Swedish construction industry is on its toes and is fully working. The municipalities and county boards, all in this area, are also working for the fullest, and many are working overtime. It is a problem to get trained staff in large parts of the construction industry and also in the public institutions involved. This creates a new situation which gives rise to certain problems, including the fact that people are often forced to employ people who have less experience and not always the level of education they would have liked. When there is a shortage of people and a lack of time, there is a risk that there will be more building errors. The lack of competence leads to an increased risk in terms of quality issues, building defects, waste of resources and working in a way that makes it more expensive than it would otherwise be. It is a fundamental problem, and I often talk to the construction industry about the importance of being careful about quality and trying to ensure that you do not let the heat and stress caused by lack of skills and lack of people go out on quality in a serious way, because that would be bad. But there is a risk. Is there a system failure that can fatten problems both now and in times when construction is not as extensive as it is today? Some researchers have pointed this out in the debate that has taken place in Dagens Nyheter and Svenska Dagbladet. When it comes to the construction of tenant-owner associations, it may be that we have some problems in the structure that we should overcome. Therefore, the government must look carefully at the investigation that has come into the protection of the right-of-occupancy association and whether there are important elements that could limit or reduce the risks and address these problems. In part, this may be the case, but I do not think it fully covers these issues. Nooshi Dadgostar also deals with the investigation that I have set up and which deals with Boverket's building regulations. It is wrong to say that it would be a quality problem in this context. It's all about completely different things. But let me get back to that, because now my speaking time is up.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-898	Mr President, I would like to In my interpellation, I pointed out that architect Erik Stenberg says that construction companies are pouring wires and pipes under the floor in search of more marketable square metres. Then you have to tear up the whole floor if you're going to renovate. He believes there will be renovations after 10 to 15 years. In Svenska Dagbladet, the property owners' expert pointed out that there is so much bad material on the market and that it is easy to use a lot of it. Things can be sold expensively on the market now. So the citizens are going to be losers here. The housing sector is not just any sector. As consumers, we are at a disadvantage in terms of information. It is difficult to determine exactly even if we have consumer protection, which is very important. I would like an answer if you are going to propose something in relation to the disparagement that exists in the right-of-occupancy market. In addition to this, we also need to ensure that there are rules for everything that is being built, including for rentals and detached homes where this conflict of opinion does not exist, so that good, sustainable and long-term construction is built. These are the cities we're building. It's not just a single transaction between two people, it's a house that's supposed to be in our cities. For me, it is important that it is not just the key words cheaper and simpler that should apply. These are words that the Minister has commented on in all the investigations and which are actually only addressed to the industry. The Minister pointed out that in one sentence of the directive there is something about sustainable construction. I went through it, and one sentence in this long committee directive is about quality. Otherwise, it is only a matter of trying to scale down rules and remove as much as possible in order, as it says, to increase competition. Many investigations have looked at the competitive situation. It is a wrong analysis to believe that it is our building standards that prevent competition. There are many other things that are much more important, such as the fact that the large companies basically own the entire market, even in the downward direction, and that an active network of contacts is doing quite a lot of work to shut out competition. There are quite extensive investigations into it. It becomes a little one-sided and categorical when the review shows that there are motions that point to the need to simplify and modernise the PBL. I am always in favour of modernisation, but sometimes there is something behind it that is about us not having much rules because it gets so boring and difficult then. My point is that the effect of it may be that what is being built today lasts only a few years, and then it collapses. It will be a big thing for the individual who lives there and have spent a lot of money on it. I want a straight answer. Will the minister or government look at the situation in housing associations where the entrepreneur has an interim board with which he himself has contact? Is something going to happen there? It's not certain that the investigation is looking at it. Can we be told clearly that the standard will not be lowered with this review?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-909	Mr President, I would like to I didn't really have time to answer about the big investigation. The investigation is supposed to last for three years. It receives SEK 10 million per year. It is one of the biggest investigations we do in Sweden and that the Swedish Government has set up at all. Two investigators have been appointed, and at least five special secretaries will also work with it. The entire Boverket will be involved in this transformation. It is not at all a question of abolishing rules. Such a change in Boverket's building regulations has never been made before. It is therefore a much greater task than when we reviewed the Planning and Construction Act or when parts of this system were reviewed. Now the whole picture is to be reviewed. This is because stocks of rules and regulations have been stored for a long time, and it is difficult and difficult to have a good level of transparency. This helps us to have a lack of competition in this area because it requires so much of each individual operator to understand what the rules are and how to interpret them. The system has been built up for a long time and is difficult to overlook. A major change and a thorough review of our building regulations is needed here. If we do this, it will be a simplification. This also means that more actors can come in. For example, it will be easier for builders from other countries, such as Finland or Norway, to be on the Swedish market. Today it is very difficult for someone from outside to come in and see how it works. I think it is clear and clear that this should not lead to worse consumer or health rules. That is absolutely my intention. This is a work that will last for a long time, and we will be in contact with the investigators who are very respected and knowledgeable in this area. There are great opportunities to follow the work and ensure that there are no deteriorations during the journey. Right-of-occupancy associations and possible conflict in the system have been discussed. We are now working on it within the department and see if it is a concrete problem or not. If so, what should we do about it? I do not have a ready message from the government to give today about what will be done. But let's look at the question. It looks like it is a real problem that has been lifted, but so far it is quite unclear today how big the problem is and what is a reasonable measure to change the situation. It is possible that part of the answer is in the inquiry into consumer law, but in that case I do not think that is the whole answer.
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-918	Mr President, I would like to I'm still a little insecure. It is not really connected with the written directives for the investigation, if I understand it correctly. It is very clear and categorical that it is probably about not wanting so much rules. It is even pointed out that other studies have been carried out to build even smaller apartments for certain vulnerable groups in the housing market. I do not think this is a good development. You can't 40 years after the million-dollar program build homes that are smaller and worse than those built at the time. We must constantly develop the construction and the way in which we live. I'm a little worried. I think it is good that the Minister for Housing says that it is absolutely not about lowering housing standards or that we should live on much smaller areas. There's no reason for that. The prices don't go down because you build worse. On the contrary, there is a fairly high risk of poor construction, but prices continue to increase. The customer should thus benefit from this. Then I wonder if there are other things the Minister intends to do. Will architects have more space to run their own projects? Can they take part in making sure that there are not so bad material choices? Are there other thoughts about how things will get better? Can quality control be carried out in a much more independent way? Are there proposals from the government that have to do with raising the quality and standard of what is being built today?
i-55aeed4b4298dfdc-923	Mr President, I would like to As I said at the beginning of this debate, the government is now working on an architectural bill. There are a number of different discussions and suggestions on how architects should get into the process earlier. The choice of materials shall be treated in a different way. Better collaboration between different actors is needed to ensure that quality aspects also come into the planning work of municipalities at an early stage. I think it's very important. There has been a shortage and high demand for smaller apartments for a number of reasons. The market has not really been able to cope with this situation in the past, to build the apartments that are in demand. This is essentially the basis for looking at whether there are problems in the regulatory framework in order to build resource efficient and surface efficient apartments that work well, even if there are a number of smaller squares. There is also a fairly high demand for smaller apartments today compared to before. In conclusion, I think that Nooshi Dadgostar raises very important issues. We are now looking closely at them in the Government Office. It is important that we do not interfere so that the production of housing is reduced again. It is also important that we monitor quality issues so that increased housing production does not lead to a deterioration in the quality of housing in the future.
