i-48a9b834c2386528-2	Madam President, I would like The government has also introduced taxes on solar electricity for its own use. That is regrettable. We must take climate challenges seriously. The energy system must be turned against renewables. It must be done quickly, and all decisions taken in this Parliament must move in that direction. It is important that the tax system stimulates what we want more of and counteracts what we want less of, a so-called tax exchange. The issue of solar tax has its background in the fact that the government immediately after power access in 2014 chose to start a negotiation with Norway to change the electricity certification system. In this negotiation, the government lost the solar tax. The Alliance had previously negotiated the electricity licensing system with Norway, but with center-party ministers they said no to a changed solar tax. I also believe that the agreement reached has been both overinterpreted and misinterpreted. The government then blamed the EU. The European Commission's representative on in Sweden then felt compelled to investigate the matter carefully, inter alia on the grounds that the Swedish Government referred to the EU's state aid rules. The European Commission's representation in Sweden stated last August that there are no requirements for energy taxation. On the contrary, there is the possibility for Member States to make exceptions for renewable energy such as solar energy. It went on to say that, as far as state aid is concerned, we must examine each individual case, but it is important to emphasise that in many other cases we have given the green light in other Member States to subsidies or exemptions from the taxation of renewable energy. ..................................................... The Government's view on the matter is essentially that the Government has questioned negotiations with Norway on the electricity certification system. Why the EU is involved in this matter at all is highly unclear. Madam President, I would like On this basis, the Finance Minister called the Tax Committee this autumn to a committee meeting. At that time, both the Minister and the government backed up, and I think that was a good thing. In fact, however, the tax on solar electricity for own use remains. Madam President, I would like We're going to prioritise more solar energy, and we're going to produce more solar energy. We're going to remove the tax that Åsa Domeij called an idiot tax. The basis for taxing solar energy is wrong, and it is therefore very important that the solar tax is fully removed for own production. That's why we from the Center Party have been exercising. The Liberals have supported our motion, and I would therefore like to endorse reservation 2.
i-48a9b834c2386528-11	Madam President, I would like For Sweden, it is of central importance that we ensure stable and long-term access to clean and cheap energy. Our base industry uses large amounts of energy, and it must be the basis for our energy planning that these large energy users have sustainable and safe access to the energy they need without having to think about whether it is blowing or whether the sun is shining. It is of crucial importance for us to be able to safeguard our well-being. When we create incentives for the production of electricity that upsets the balance or creates unpredictable jerkiness in the public grid, we create problems. As long as the production of renewable electricity is small-scale, it is of no crucial importance, but when it is becoming a relatively large volume, the problem complex grows quite quickly. In addition to the twitchiness of production, the system also creates tax-subsidised competition on the market, which is not a good order. In the bill, the government proposes to significantly reduce the tax on self-produced renewable electricity in plants with an installed power of more than 255 kilowatts. The conditions for the proposal are that it concerns solar electricity produced and consumed in the same organisation, for example in a property or a company. It does not refer to electricity resold. This proposal is more complex and multifaceted than might appear at first sight. To pay taxes on something that you produce and then consume on your own behalf, we generally see as unjust taxation. From that point of view, it should be a simple matter to approve the proposal. But the question is bigger than that, or at least it risks being. We currently have a tax exemption for small plants producing renewable electricity, for example in a house or a farm if the installed power is less than 255 kilowatts. It is a reasonable compromise in relation to the problems that are also linked to the excessive production of weather-dependent electricity, and we think that is a good thing. It may seem contradictory both to accept this and to want to reject the present proposal, but I will explain our position as follows and the reasons for our position. To begin with, I would like to point out that the current limit for tax exemption on self-produced renewable electricity is so well extended that an ordinary house installation or a normal farm installation never comes close to it. The current legislative amendment will therefore not affect installations which are already exempt from tax. Instead, we are talking about large installations in industries and large housing companies with several multi-residential buildings covered with solar cells, for example. In this context, it is interesting to study what this proposal does not handle in the area of self-produced renewable solar energy. It is worth noting, for example, that the government does not concern energy production through solar collectors, i.e. direct heating of water for heating or domestic hot water. From a national energy perspective, it would be better to stimulate the extraction of solar energy for this purpose than to produce electricity on a large scale with grid disruption as a result. The government also misses the opportunity to link the tax exemption of self-produced solar electricity to a requirement to install storage capacity. There is a major mistake in this proposal, which means that the proposed measure risks disrupting national electricity supply if it is adopted by enough electricity users. This particular effect is our main argument for rejecting the government proposal. It is in danger of creating major problems for our base power through the large fluctuations in the electricity grid that we will have through the proposed measure, should it be absorbed by enough large electric consumers. Sweden is a country with relatively few hours of sunshine. We also have large temperature variations, both geographically and in terms of seasonal changes and between day and night. All these factors work in the same direction: When we need most electricity, solar cells produce at least. If it were relevant to subsidise large-scale PV electricity with tax incentives, there should also be a link to electricity storage in order to offset consumption over the day. There are today technologies for storing energy produced by solar panels, for example, such as battery pools, fuel cells or water heating. If large solar power plants are connected to such technologies with sufficient capacity to deal with electricity demand at times when the solar power plant does not deliver enough energy, this would be an interesting question. Unfortunately, such technology is still partly new and relatively expensive, which means that it is not used sufficiently, as it is not profitable. Focusing well-balanced support on facilities that, for example, make a property completely independent of externally supplied electricity could be a way to help the new technology. So far, however, it has not been thought in the Government Office. Instead, it has chosen to indulge in pure populism when delivering another ill-thought-out bill. Of course, it's very good if we can increase the share of renewable energy in Sweden – I think we all agree on this. However, we must do so in a well thought-out and sustainable manner, so that we do not create more problems than we solve with the new technology, which is exactly what the present proposal is at great risk of leading to. From a fiscal point of view, the Government's proposal may also mean that the State loses a non-negligible part of the tax base. It is a problem that the government avoids discussing in the bill. From the point of view of electricity supply, if the production type in question expands significantly, the proposal could create problems with the continuity of the electricity system. As I have already mentioned, it should therefore – if one were to encourage the expansion of such electricity production through tax exemptions – be linked to a storage capacity, so that the consumption of the self-produced electricity can spread out even to times when the plant does not supply any electricity. It is, of course, a good thing if we expand our renewable energy production, but only if we build the technology at the same time so that we do not increase consumption fluctuations in the public electricity network. If we do that, we'll just build up new problems. In addition, today we have overproduction of electricity, which is largely randomized with loss. This proposal means that we are subsidising tax losses for taxpayers. Madam President, I would like On the basis of what I have said here, I am in favour of reservation 1. At the same time, I would like to call on the government to come back with a new bill with a well-thought-out proposal that solves the problems I have touched upon in my speech.
i-48a9b834c2386528-31	Madam President, I would like After massive criticism of solar tax, the government has come back with a slightly better proposal. Gone is the legal framework for legal entities, which posed major problems for municipalities, businesses and agriculture. In addition, the tax introduced last year has now been reduced. But again this time the red - green rule did not choose to go all the way. As indicated in a previous speech, it has now decided to reduce the tax on solar energy for the large producers. It is not, however, the case that we are switching to sustainable energy production. Now the government says that it affects so few – indeed it is, but it does not make it more right. It is precisely the large-scale producers who make a difference in general. 255 kilowatts equal about 12 villas. If we are to boost fossil-fuel-free production, we must also give reasons for the major players to choose green alternatives. Anyone who has a company and wants to convert it to fossil-fuel-free energy consumption but is a large consumer of electricity cannot count the investment home, even if you do not sell it on. For the entrepreneur and large consumer who wants to take responsibility for a sustainable future, the signal from the government is that this is not desirable. It is almost as horribly as if a farmer who is a big consumer of his own cultivated tomatoes would pay taxes on what he cultivates for the needs of the house. The signal value of not charging taxes on self-produced electricity is enormous. If the government had chosen to make a difference on this particular issue, it would also have seen the value of involving large electricity consumers on the train. We in the Liberals believe that imposing the tax on 0.5 cents, with reference to an EU regulatory framework, is not justifiable. The EU has clearly announced that efforts on fossil-free alternatives are high on the agenda. According to the proposal, government officials believe that their objective is to abolish the tax on solar energy altogether, and therefore a three-step rocket has been announced. However, we in the Liberals are asking ourselves why wait? We in the Liberals believe that the tax on solar energy should be zero crowns, even for those who produce a lot. This can make a big difference. That is why I am in favour of reservation 2.
i-48a9b834c2386528-38	Madam President, I would like We've made up our minds. Target's ready. In just a few years' time, the energy used in Sweden will come from renewable sources to at least 50%. In the long term, 100 per cent of the energy used in Sweden will come from renewable sources. 2040 all electricity generation shall be renewable. This is an important direction. These objectives are important in limiting global warming and in keeping with the international agreement reached in Paris in 2015. The Social Democratic-led government is working on several fronts to achieve the climate goals. An example of a current proposal is the change of fuel, which has been referred in the spring. This means a reduction obligation for fuel distributors. Through an ingenious tax structure, the change of fuel will gradually increase the incorporation of biofuels into petrol and diesel, while maintaining the price at the pump. Another example is the bonus – the Malus system. It is a proposal for an instrument that will support consumers to make climate-smart choices when buying new cars. Anyone who buys a climate-smart car simply gets a well-acquired bonus, while anyone who buys a climate-smart car pays extra tax – i.e. malus. These proposals are climate policy that will make a real difference. During our reign, we have raised the level of ambition with regard to the switch to electricity from renewable sources. The increase in ambition is clear, not least in the case of micro-producers of renewable electricity, in particular solar electricity. We invest heavily in facilitating for companies, organisations and individuals who want to put solar cells on the roof to cover their own electricity supply. We have significantly expanded investment support for solar power plants – we have eightfold increased it since 2015 – and introduced investment aid for those who also want to provide storage facilities for their renewable energy. In addition, we organise a tax situation as favourable as it is only possible for those who produce renewable electricity for their own consumption. The first steps in that direction are taken. We have already completely exempt the vast majority of micro-producers, including those who sell their overproduction. We have ensured that most micro-producers, such as homeowners, who sell any excess production from their solar cells can make this VAT-free up to SEK 30 000 per year. We have also ensured that all electricity entering the electricity grid is eligible for a tax reduction of 60 øre per kilowatt hour. We have stated the ambition that the producer of renewable electricity to consume it at the same place where it was produced should be exempt from tax, with the exception of the largest producers. Madam President, I would like The debate today concerns the tax committee's report No 30 and the government's proposal for an extended tax exemption for self-produced renewable electricity. Some operators producing renewable electricity to consume it in the same place are not covered by the tax exemption in force. This applies to those who have several installations behind the same connection point if the combined effect of these plants exceeds the exemption limit of 255 kilowatts. Preferably, these are small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the real estate sector, which may have several facilities on the same roof as each one not exceeding 255 kilowatts. But the combined effect of them does. For these operators, the proposal therefore proposes a reduction in the energy tax by more than 98% to half a øre per kilowatt. This is proposed as a first step towards tax exemption for these operators as well. In parallel, the issue of tax exemption will be addressed to the European Commission as, according to the Government's interpretation, total tax exemption constitutes State aid which the Commission must approve. It is important for the government to respect EU law, solidarity and free movement within the Union. That is why we cannot go directly to a tax exemption. However, it is so urgent to stimulate investment in renewable energy, not least solar cells, that we choose to act now as far as the current regulatory framework allows. In the long run, we from Sweden will push for better support for the future of the EU's regulatory framework for climate change. Madam President, I would like Finally, I note that the government is pursuing an offensive policy in order for us as a country to do what we can to stop global warming. Sweden should be a leading country in the climate transition. That is why we are investing widely in instruments and support to switch to fossil freedom, renewable and climate smart. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report as a whole.
i-48a9b834c2386528-52	Madam President, I would like I believe that energy is a matter of destiny for Sweden as a nation – not only for companies but also for us as citizens. Finding energy sources that hold for the future is important. It's important for the environment. We know that the environment is being hit pretty hard today, and we need to find other alternatives in order to survive on this earth. Renewable energy and investment in it are an important part of this. I also believe that the energy agreement that nuclear power has to live its own life and survive under the usual business conditions is an important part of our companies. It is important for them to be able to obtain the electricity and energy needed to produce the goods that we need. I do not think that we politicians should tax off nuclear power, but I think it will live its life. We cannot end up in a situation where we are importing other electricity that is worse for us. I am thinking, for example, of coal power, which is a much worse option. I hope that we do not come at all at this point. If we are to achieve the goal that we all have, that is to say that renewable energy will become a considerably larger part of our energy mass, we also need to invest in it. I think that the bill somehow shows that the government is trying to invest in it. The investment in solar energy is important for us in the future. Excessive taxation means putting aside investments that ordinary people want to make to help change. During a period last autumn – I think it was then – the tone was quite high. The Alliance felt that solar energy was being taxed on fire. I think we were right about this, given that the government changed its mind and put forward a proposal which means that there are much better opportunities to create solar energy for home use today. I think that the government has done the right thing and that they are showing that they are listening. We Christian Democrats support the proposal that is being put forward along the lines of the objectives that the government is talking about. This applies not only to the objectives of the bill, but also to what the Social Democrats are talking about in this pulpit, that is to say, we must make sure that we try to make a transition to renewable energy. I think we can do it together.
i-48a9b834c2386528-57	Madam President, I would like On 10 June, a framework agreement was concluded between five parties of the Riksdag. This agreement constitutes a common roadmap for a controlled transition to a fully renewable electricity system with a target of 100% renewable electricity generation by 2040. This agreement is much better than the previous alliance agreement and also more sustainable over time. Long-term solutions are important in many policy areas. Energy is one of those areas where it is incredibly important, not least for our basic industry. Madam President, I would like When you have an ambition to make broad agreements that last over time – hear: several terms of office – you have to negotiate. It's about giving and taking. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-48a9b834c2386528-60	Madam President, I would like The reason I am standing here is that the Left Party has not been part of the energy agreement whose consequences are dealt with in bill 142. The Left Party wants Sweden to be a forerunner in the transition to a renewable energy system. Investments in the Swedish energy system are an important and necessary part of the environmental and climate transition in Sweden. The focus should be on renewable natural resources: solar, wind, forest and water. It is unfortunate that the government in its proposal proposes the abolition of the tax on thermal power. The bill shall be paid by electricity consumers through an increased energy tax. Instead, the economic difficulties that exist in the industry could have been solved by, for example, giving other directives to State-owned Vattenfall. The Left Party is opposed to a development where nuclear power is permanent in Swedish energy supply. In the bill, the government also proposes a reduction in the property tax on hydropower. The Left understands the need for investment in new technologies and measures to increase the impact of our hydroelectric plants. But what feels like a low watermark in this context is that our state Vattenfall, which receives reduced property tax by billions, simultaneously announces that you should pull in at the operating centre in Storuman. Storuman's society has contributed a great deal to Vattenfall's and Sweden's prosperity, and this has been done by the fact that its rivers have been expanded. I mean, the limit of decency has to go somewhere. The inland municipalities that have opened their rivers to Swedish energy supply should come first when reliefs arise for companies – in this case tax cuts in the billions. Instead, the hydroelectric municipalities stand hand in hand and watch and hope that there will be something left for them. We can only say that we are becoming more and more unique here in Sweden when it comes to failures. Then I am talking about the living conditions of the countryside and survival. This action does not exactly make things easier. Madam President, I would like I will now return to nuclear power. We leave it to the market to order whether to keep nuclear power or not. I would argue that this is also a bit unique for us in Sweden. I must also mention what a unique country we are to allow the venture capitalists to take care of our schools and health care facilities as limitless profit machines in their stock market. It makes no sense, if you ask me. Madam President, I would like I'm not gonna get bored. To conclude, I would just like to recall and draw Parliament's attention to the special opinion of the Left Party in the report.
i-V9mJFGU7F8K3hrpctqEnMj	Madam President, I would like I am in favour of the committee's proposal in paragraph 1 and of our reservation in paragraph 2 of the report on the Customs Crimes Data Act. The Customs Crime Data Act aims to create the conditions for processing data in customs criminal investigations internally within the Swedish Customs Agency and in collaboration with other authorities. This is a crucial factor for the Finnish Customs, but also for society as a whole, to be able to succeed in the increasingly harsh reality of increased smuggling of drugs of all kinds, weapons and explosives. At the same time, it will help protect people from intrusion into personal integrity that is not relevant from a criminal investigation perspective. The basic principle must be to simplify and facilitate criminal investigations. The use of modern computer technology in criminal investigations is therefore a matter of course and must be clearly acknowledged. The exchange of information between criminal investigation authorities is also an important issue for the effective prosecution of organised crime, as many criminals operate in different contexts, not least organised crime. The investigation of customs offences or secondary offences from the point of view of the Finnish Customs must not be hampered by the fact that the authorities are obliged to refrain from exchanging information on grounds of confidentiality. Personal privacy should be protected as far as reasonable from this point of view, but a valuation must also be made on the basis of whose privacy is to be protected in the first place: people who are well-founded in criminal investigations or victims. This perspective is not at all illustrated in the Government proposal, which is very surprising as the entire criminal activity within the Customs Agency is aimed at punishing crimes, i.e. protecting the victims of crime. These may be individuals as well as the State. Regardless of which, the focus of the discussion on privacy should be on victims and not on perpetrators. Another aspect of privacy issues is that one should be considered innocent until one is convicted. It is an important principle, why the issue of strict confidentiality of all documents where personal data are present in a criminal investigation is important. However, it is not from criminal investigators that people should be protected but from crime. This means that the limitations contained in the proposal on how authorities can exchange information risk having an inhibitory effect on investigative activities. The problem today is not that it is too many minor crimes that are investigated and cleared up but, on the contrary, that these more or less regular ones are closed, often before an investigation has even begun. Media or other external actors shall not have access to any material in criminal investigations that includes personal data, in any case not while investigations are ongoing. The effect of the legislation must not be a misplaced consideration of the personal integrity of suspects and other persons involved in an investigation material. At the same time, measures should be taken to protect victims and others involved in these investigations without being suspicious or related suspected persons. This orientation and principle should have been substantially more clearly stated in the bill as it should be the most important part of the substance of the bill. The bill focuses on the issue of integrity, which is, admittedly, an important issue but which should be secondary to the main objective of solving crime. A shift in focus and focus in this direction should therefore be made in the legislative proposal to ensure that the law is correctly applied in its interpretation of the law. This is one of the issues that we believe the government must have as a basis in the impact assessment we propose in our reservation. In the bill, the government addresses the issue of balancing the right to privacy protection with the requirements for effective investigative activities – we should not take that away from them. Unfortunately, the reasoning on the protection of privacy is more in terms of how a suspect can be protected than how the criminal investigation can be conducted successfully and effectively. We believe that the limit is being drawn too narrowly. Information must be able to be handled effectively both within an investigating authority and between such authorities, where the information is deemed relevant even if the penalty value of the investigated crime is less than one year in prison. We believe that the provisions of the law thus risk hampering the investigation of customs offences with low penalties, such as so-called quantity offences. This, in turn, risks undermining confidence in the judiciary as a whole, and we believe that this is a serious enough concern to make it appropriate to investigate in any case whether or not this effect results from the rules of the new legislation. Of course, the fact that errors can occur and that wrong people can be affected is inevitable. There should therefore be a clear possibility of compensation if personal integrity is violated in this context. Madam President, I would like We think it is good that methods are developed with the aim of facilitating criminal investigations. It is necessary to protect society against the harmful behaviour of crime. However, as I hope has been shown by this speech, we see great risks that the objective of this legislation will not be achieved. Therefore, in our reservation, we have requested that the Government, within two years of the law being transposed into Swedish law, investigate what the consequences have actually been.
i-48a9b834c2386528-82	Madam President, I would like As we have just heard, we are discussing the Customs Crimes Data Act. It replaces a previous law on the same things. It is therefore a question of how Customs and other authorities handle personal data in the exercise of their authority, where they try to prosecute crimes as best as possible. This is one of five very similar laws. We will be debating another of them in a few minutes. That's what they call the Tax Crimes Data Act. In addition to these two laws are the Police Data Act, the Coast Guard Data Act and the Prosecutor's Data Act. These laws are combined so that they will look as equal as possible and work in the same way over all our authorities. They're all made now. Three have already been decided, and two of us are debating here today. They are designed to streamline the processing of personal data and protect the integrity of those whose personal data is handled when investigating crimes. This is, of course, a balancing act. We all have an interest in streamlining and ensuring that crimes can be prosecuted as well as possible, but we also need to protect the integrity of people and the data that exist, at least until we know if they are guilty. I do not think that we really have such great differences between the parties in terms of their views on this. We're working to make sure this is technology neutral. The major part of these legislative changes is that we should be able to apply the same laws and rules regardless of what new technology the authorities will have to use in the future and which they will have the opportunity to use in the future. The goal is also that they should all be able to interact. I therefore call for the reservation that the Swedish Democrats have to be rejected and for the proposal to be approved on the grounds that we should not decide at all to investigate any of these laws separately. This is a nice package that we need to stick together. In addition, the government has a standing mission to review and improve laws if necessary, and all these authorities are constantly in contact with the government and with others, who are sitting on the transparency councils for the authorities, for example, in order to bring forward needs, opinions and views that we can draw from as needed. It is very unnecessary to lock resources at the Government Office to do something at a certain date and also perhaps make it a little bigger than what one would need by doing a formal investigation work on how these laws beat. It's happening all the time. I also note that what the Swedish Democrats are actually saying is that they want to tear up and remove most of the privacy protection and replace it with a system where you get paid for having your privacy violated. I don't think that makes any sense at all. We will always see if there are more steps to take. Perhaps you can flinch the integrity at the edge to fight crime in a more effective way. But to remove it in larger shoals and replace it with monetary, i.e. monetary, compensations because you happen to get caught in the middle is not a good way to solve the problem.
i-48a9b834c2386528-90	Madam President, I would like I think Patrik Lundqvist has misunderstood me. We are not interested in introducing any form of monetary compensation. Rather, it is in that way that someone who is injured by privacy violations should receive proper redress, and you should, of course, receive compensation. People should not have to accept to suffer harm because the state infringes their personal integrity. I think that is a fundamental principle. I cannot believe that the Social Democrats can be against such a system. That rule already exists today. We believe that the right of the individual should be strengthened in this case. So I do not really understand how Patrik Lundqvist is reasoning. Our proposals to investigate the impact of this proposal are based on the fact that during this term of office the government has consistently been extremely poor at evaluating its legislative proposals. It has received criticism for, from both the R Egelnämnden and the Law Council as well as others. And there have been numerous motions and discussions in this House about that process. I do not understand why the Social Democrats cannot agree to this when there are concerns that these proposals will lead to a failure to achieve the objectives of the legislation. Evaluation is important. I think the Social Democrats should be able to agree to that.
i-48a9b834c2386528-95	Madam President, I would like As I said, laws and legal changes are continuously evaluated. We have seen the opposition's enthusiasm for investigations in the committee throughout this term of office. It has even gone so far as to require evaluations before the legislative changes come into force. You've had ideas about evaluating as soon as you can. It has even become the case that you want to do so before the laws come into force. That's a little hard. But I understand; if you don't have much else to come with, this will be a little blanket that you can use. You can require a small, extra investigation to show that you are still doing something. That's absolutely what you have to do. But what it would bring is hard to see. In this case, we make the assessment that the evaluations and the work that is done continuously by all legislation are fully sufficient to deal with these issues.
i-48a9b834c2386528-99	Madam President, I would like Evaluations of the legislation should be carried out continuously, Patrik Lundqvist. The problem is that there are not enough and extensive checks on the results of the legislation that we are voting through in this House. As a result, the overall long-term impact of the legislation is uncertain and probably not the one initially envisaged. The government is bad at this. There's proof of that. Independent actors, who will review this, criticise the government for not making sufficient evaluations and monitoring of its legislation. Patrik Lundqvist or someone else can't talk that away. We propose a serious follow-up after the law has been in effect for two years to see if the rules need to be tightened up. Perhaps it is in this way that we in Sweden continue to close investigations into crimes with a lower penalty value than a year's imprisonment. The large amount of crime lies in that span. It is a question of getting good acceptance for the entire judiciary and the Swedish administration of justice. There's the Customs Department. That's what it's all about. It is sad that the Social Democrats do not want to see such a follow-up in order to make legislation better.
i-48a9b834c2386528-104	Madam President, I would like What is important is how many investigations are needed and carried out and how many of the crimes actually committed are being prosecuted. That's really what we're standing here talking about. It is above all a resource issue and not a legislative issue. This is not where the problem lies. The problem is, you don't have the resources to investigate everything that's going on. That is an issue that we can very much discuss. I think everyone agrees that we would like to see more resources available to investigate crime. I do not think I have ever heard anyone in this House oppose it. Hanging up on these things, however, will not lead that discussion very far forward. Now we will see how the laws will beat, and we will be able to screw them all the time. I have not seen in any way that there would be any further need for investigations on this point.
i-48a9b834c2386528-107	Madam President, I would like As far as law enforcement is concerned, the Swedish Democrats are in favour of the Government's proposal. Nor are we opposed to the substance of this report. Sometimes a balance has to be struck between security in society or efficiency on the one hand and freedom for the individual on the other, or, in this case, the integrity of the individual on the other. When freedom or privacy is restricted or at risk of being restricted, developments need to be closely monitored and follow-up undertaken to ensure that the restrictions are proportionate to the law enforcement purpose. The Tax Crime Data Act is a law that aims to create the conditions for managing data in tax criminal investigations. In principle, criminal investigations should be simplified and facilitated. This is partly made possible by improving the exchange of information between authorities, which we have also welcomed in this report and in other contexts. The fact that the Government's proposal aims to exploit the individual's personal integrity is positive. But it also needs to be followed up. Our proposal is that it should be done two years after the entry into force of the law. However, in the event that our proposal does not win the voice of the majority of Parliament, I regard it as positive that the majority of the tax committee in the report states that it assumes that the government will follow the question of whether the objectives of the Tax Crime Data Act are met without the Parliament making an announcement on this. This majority can also be worth following up. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-48a9b834c2386528-113	Madam President, I would like This is the last of the five laws that I spoke about in my previous speech on customs crime data law. This is about the Tax Crimes Act. It looks the same, and we have not really heard anything new here. I am therefore content to refer to the discussion we had earlier and to call for approval of the proposal.
i-48a9b834c2386528-115	Madam President, I would like During this term of office, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has dealt with and debated the different chapters of the Criminal Code in the area of criminal law. The committee has focused on the importance of criminal law in particular for those who have been subjected to crime. We have devoted time to young people, women and children, and today it is time to strike a blow for the elderly – for pensioners – and their right to live a good and safe life. In this mission, it is quite natural to reflect on the model of society that the older generation has developed for us through creativity, knowledge and struggle. We are Members of Parliament in a country with one of the world's most successful social models. The social model is that we gradually pay taxes to equalise financial differences, to enable children to attend school, to ensure that the sick are entitled to care and that the elderly are entitled to quality care for the elderly. It is a social model that leads to a strong economy and protects that no one in society should have to go unemployed. People should have the right to social insurance and basic security. Unfortunately, today we see that – as in many other areas – we need to even out the class gap, which is that fewer and fewer people have a good pension to look forward to in the autumn of their age. Too large a group of pensioners lack an orderly pension. It is up to all parties to resolve this issue of security and justice. The Socialist-led government has begun to reduce taxes on pensioners, but we all know that much more needs to be done. In the area of justice policy, we see that the elderly are a particularly vulnerable group. Older people are exposed to certain types of crime when physics is no longer what it once was. The way of living before all rationalisation has also been subject to crime, for example when larger cash withdrawals are made to pay bills and trade. In addition, the loneliness of the elderly is a major social problem, especially when it makes it impossible for unknown persons to enter the home of an elderly person who has opened the front door. Madam President, I would like Through knowledge and the dissemination of information, much of the crime against older people can be prevented. But then there are new types of crimes and new acts that need to be criminalised. Such a new pattern is the subject of this debate and of the government proposal. Madam President, I would like Systematic invoicing fraud has occurred for several decades, but it has grown in recent years. Technology development contributes to a more advanced level of fraud and targets vulnerable target groups in society. It particularly affects the elderly. It is usually a small amount, but through an advanced system, fraud is targeted at many and thus has a large amount of money. It is often systematics that are the challenge for the police to investigate. Each individual crime must be proven. This also means that the extent of the crime's nature has not had an impact on the penalty measure. Fraud today presupposes high standards of evidence regarding props misleading. Each misleading individual must be proven, which in practice means that a prosecutor must question each plaintiff for each individual invoice and the reason why the criminal charge has paid the invoice. The problem is that large numbers of fake invoices mean that the crime does not focus on the offender's actions and systematics, but on the consequences for the individual in each individual case. What we are therefore going to legislate on this week is the introduction of a new penal provision which says that the person who directs payment calls to a wider circle in order to mislead about actions involving the gain of the offender and harm to the recipient shall be sentenced for gross claim fraud to imprisonment for a minimum of six months and a maximum of six years. There should therefore no longer be any need for a hearing with each individual plaintiff, but the criminal liability takes place when the sender has transmitted or sent the request. Preparation for such action must also be criminalised. In addition to a recent criminalisation, the government is presenting a number of proposals aimed at property crimes in general. These are designations, classifications and classifications of offences. Among other things, it is the use of means of transport, arbitrary procedures, illicit energy use, usury, heeling, scamming and illegal use that will now have a severe difficulty. The qualification for grand theft shall also be supplemented in such a way that it shall be taken into account in particular in the event of an intrusion into a dwelling or in the case of a matter which has been carried on or carried out in its immediate vicinity. With this bill, there will also be adjustments in these scales of penalties. Madam President, I would like Today's bill deals with important areas and aims to protect the particularly vulnerable target groups that we have in society and which are at risk of being exposed to fraud and fraud. I believe that this is an important policy for tackling the criminality of older people. The ruthlessness that affects an already financially vulnerable group should therefore be felt by the person committing the crime. Finally, we Social Democrats have reserved ourselves against the committee's proposal for a declaration on burglary and repeated theft. I have commented on burglary as a crime category in other criminal proceedings, and my view is that it is still the case that the act is criminalised under the designation of grand theft. Otherwise, we share the view that the areas should be continuously followed by the Committee on Justice, but that the issue should be considered when further documentation is available. Madam President, I would like That is why we support our reservations, but we will not be in favour of them.
i-48a9b834c2386528-134	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. It may not be so common when you are in opposition, but in this case it is the Riksdag that has taken the lead in how to work on these issues, regardless of what the Social Democrats say about hitting a blow for the elderly. I really think you should do that. It's important. This crime affects older people ruthlessly. Normally you don't talk much about privacy restrictions and experiences that mean that you feel a great insecurity after a property crime, but in these contexts there is reason to talk about it. I cannot help but tell you briefly why I feel that this is very urgent. At one time when I worked as a police officer, there were quite a few housing breaches, just like now. The older people and old-age pensioners who had had their homes upside down and dear possessions – things that had nothing but sentimental value – did not understand the economic value of old estates, possessions that the family might have owned for generations. These older ones got very insecure after this. Tragically, one often had to go back to the same address when people had died shortly after they had been robbed. There were many times. I can draw no other conclusion than that many of the elderly and fragile people affected by burglary were very badly affected by this type of crime. That is why it is important – as is the background to this report – to look more seriously at property crimes that have a integrity-deserving character. There is also reason to seriously consider burglary in homes. This is something that Parliament has on two occasions announced to the government. The government has still done nothing in this area. This is about beating the pensioners we are talking about. When someone breaks into other people's homes and the elderly, defenseless and defenceless suffers, that person should be punished for it in a consistent and reasonable way. As I said, we have made two previous announcements. In the matter and in the bill that has now been placed on Parliament's table, the government could have taken in a preparation document and included it. However, this has not happened. Therefore, there is now another announcement, a third, about burglary, and this is timed. By 1 April 2018, the Government shall return to the Riksdag with a proposal for a new penal provision on burglary. I do not know why there is no interest in addressing this issue. It is true that the case is being tightened up on the grounds of qualification. Today, the person guilty of breaking and entering a dwelling is convicted – it could be a permanent dwelling or a free-time residence – for aggravated theft. But this is not a crime of its own which shows the seriousness. Aggravated theft can also be about stealing a purse that someone wears or has nearby. It's not quite the same as getting your whole home turned upside down and maybe getting old inheritance stolen. As far as criminal systems are concerned, the preparation basis in the bill would have made it possible to introduce systematics as a qualification basis. This is now included in the concept of a crime of a particularly dangerous nature. This applies, for example, if theft has been of a particularly dangerous nature. The government's argument as to why systematics should not be introduced as a qualification basis is that it would represent an obvious risk of misinterpretation. I do not understand this reasoning. In view of the fact that I have also seen this in court, I know that there are many cases of shoplifting where people have been convicted of shoplifting, although the total value of what has been stolen on the same day may have been SEK 15 000 to SEK 20 000. If it had been stolen on one occasion, it would have been stealing, but in these cases the person has been convicted of shoplifting. One might ask which is more serious. Is systematics important or not? Yes, it has, also as an isolated phenomenon. Of course, what is done repeatedly on the same day and in the same amount should result in it being qualified as theft or grand theft in the same way as when it is done on a single occasion. As it is, ten occasions can lead to them for shoplifting. The government and, in this case, the parliamentary minority have a different view of this. But there are announcements, and the government will return to Parliament on this issue too. Finally, I would like to say something about gross claims fraud. This is the result of the mandate given by the Alliance Government in June 2012 to a special investigator to investigate whether there was a need to strengthen the criminal protection of property and to propose changes that would not least be linked to cybercrime. For many years and with increased intensity, so-called fake invoices and other things have been discussed. This is a major and widespread problem, and this is the answer to this problem. Instead of discussing a lot of strange proposals that, for example, you should be able to withdraw from agreements that you have not actually entered into, there is a need for criminal law protection. Here we now have a constructed proposal on gross claims fraud, as Mr Redar described well. On the other hand, on the basis that the Alliance Government gave the investigator, it is necessary to adapt the scales of penalties for central property crimes so that they better reflect the seriousness of, for example, privacy violations. They shall also be adapted in relation to each other. Another thing is to change the offence of shoplifting into petty theft, which hopefully may be perceived as a signal that one sees more seriously even small cases of offence. In addition, the scales of damages and serious damage are tightened to bring them into line with other property offences. As has already been said, there is no reservation on our part to ask for approval, so I would once again ask for approval of the committee's proposal.
i-48a9b834c2386528-151	Madam President, I would like Let us begin with the most beautiful words in Sweden, which for me as a parent of young children is a babysitter. However, as a Member of Parliament, I still think that the most beautiful word is, in fact, the exercise of authority. The exercise of public authority is a concept of administrative law and includes decisions or other measures which ultimately express the power of society vis-à-vis its citizens. It is very beautiful, Madam President. The Left Party has always been clear that it should be Swedish authorities that carry out the exercise of authority, because that is when we have laws, regulations, procedures and appeals possibilities if something goes wrong. We remain in this view also with regard to police cooperation across borders. The Government's proposal is about how the police should cooperate with other states to prevent and investigate various forms of crime. Let me begin by making it clear that the Left Party considers it extremely important and important that the police cooperate and fight crime across national borders. Crime extends not only within the country's own borders but is, like everything else, international. The Swedish police can already cooperate operationally with foreign authorities. However, in such cooperation, foreign officials may not take any action involving the exercise of public authority, except for the exceptions provided for in the Schengen cooperation and cooperation in the Öresund region. The Left Party wants the government to come back with a proposal that does not allow foreign state authority in Sweden or that foreign officials are given the right to use weapons in the same way as Swedish police. In the bill, the government states that foreign officials who participate in the cooperation will be under Swedish leadership and that their use of force or coercion may only take place within the framework of the rules applicable to the Swedish police. Foreign police or foreign officials with police powers shall also be allowed to carry weapons and have the right to use weapons in the same way as Swedish police. According to the proposal, foreign police officers who are to participate in the cooperation should therefore be given knowledge of the rules and working methods applied in Sweden. This sounds good, but the Left Party believes that it is not enough to ensure that fundamental principles of legal certainty and individual rights are upheld. One question we ask ourselves is how it should be ensured that the exercise of authority is done in the right way. If the task of a Swedish authority is performed by a foreign state, the citizen must be able to expect the same degree of legal certainty and quality as if the task were carried out by a national authority. The proposed exercise of authority by a foreign state is not just a task but a core activity of the state and is also part of the state's monopoly of violence. According to the proposal, foreign police officers will not be subject to Swedish regulatory supervision. We find that very worrying. We take it seriously, and we want a better understanding and justification of why. Cooperation activities will be led by the Police Authority. This means that the Chancellor of Justice and the Ombudsman of Justice can check whether any fault is happening. But just like the Swedish Bar Association, the Left Party believes that it is doubtful whether it is sufficient for the Police Authority to be subject to supervision. In view of the fact that foreign officials will not be directly under the control of the J.O. and JK, we in the Left Party question whether the new forms of cooperation can really be said to be surrounded by adequate procedural safeguards. Allowing the JO and JK to examine foreign officials differs from the current regime, but allowing foreign states to exercise authority in Sweden against Swedish citizens deviates – I say this without exaggerating – significantly from the current regime. The Left Party wants the government to come back with a proposal that does not allow foreign state authority in Sweden or that foreign officials are given the right to use weapons in the same way as Swedish police. That is why I support this reservation.
i-48a9b834c2386528-163	Madam President, I would like Today, therefore, the issue is a new opportunity for operational police cooperation with other states. These are some legislative changes required by Swedish law in order to implement the proposal. It is about implementing the provisions on operational police cooperation in the existing EU decisions, known as the Prüm Council Decision and the Atlas Decision, and some changes to the Europol Regulation. The Swedish police and the Swedish Security Service will then be able to cooperate with foreign authorities and receive assistance and provide assistance in joint operations, major events, disasters and serious accidents. It should also be possible to use foreign special intervention teams if necessary for such events, just as it is regulated in today's Prüm Council and Atlas decisions. As Linda Snecker pointed out, there are, of course, international collaborations today. But the idea is that foreign police officers, under the direction of the Swedish police, should be able to carry out official activities in Sweden. That's the difference. The exercise of authority, as in all police work, may involve the use of force or coercion. It is very important to say that it must take place within the framework of the regulations applicable to the Swedish police. Let me give you an example. If there are different regulations for Swedish police and German police and a German police officer comes here to Sweden and works under Swedish leadership, the police must act as the Swedish police do and may not use other methods that may exist in Germany. The basis, of course, is that Swedish police should be dimensioned for our country's needs. But we see that it is becoming more and more important to be prepared to receive and provide reinforcement from and to other countries in the event of exceptional events. You can see this as a possible complement, you might say. We see the global situation and changes taking place internationally. We feel good that Swedish police can make use of this possibility. Before any cooperation with a country commences, an agreement shall be made. It's supposed to be pretty clear. The agreement may be concluded by the Government, the Police Authority or the Security Service. The operation shall be clearly defined and have a clear purpose. It may be specified in terms of time and location. It should be clear which officials should participate, what powers they have, what management should look like and some other things. As you can see, it should be very clear what the cooperation should be like. The main rule is that when foreign police officers act, they should do so in the presence of Swedish officials. As I said earlier, B's are those in the Swedish Police Act. No one may act in any other way than what is permitted by Swedish police law. Linda Snecker talked about her concern for oversight regarding this. The majority of committees have assessed that the JO and JK can supervise the efforts made. On this basis, we believe that legal certainty exists in this. When it comes to geography, we can imagine that it is primarily about the Nordic countries – we share borders – and that there will be more cooperation there. The Regional Police Commissioner in Polisregion Nord, Klas Johansson, is currently working on a special mission to propose national recommendations for future cross-border cooperation in the Nordic region – it can then be based on this new legislation. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for the motion to be rejected.
i-48a9b834c2386528-171	Madam President, I would like Unlike a previous speaker, I would like to express the floor at last. I call for approval of the bill, which deals with operational cooperation between different countries, with a focus on the Nordic cooperation. In fact, in these times we talk more or less every week about the need for more police – more police officers in external service and more police officers present where people are. It's about our alienation areas. But it is also very much about our countryside and our sparsely populated areas. A decision was taken in the Riksdag on 2 April 2008. It was a term of office that was not like this term of office. It was different in that the Riksdag did not give very many announcements to the government. There were still ongoing proposals. But there was an announcement. It was about partial approval of a motion on police intervention across borders in the event of imminent danger. In fact, it was my individual motion that received approval. That is why, Madam President, I would finally like to use the floor. Between 2 April 2008 and 16 May 2017, it is more than nine years and one month. Now, at last, one sees the fruit of political work in some way. It feels pretty good. It's not supposed to be ironic, because this is a difficult matter. You have to respect that it takes time. A united parliament, including the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party, decided to address this announcement to the government to ensure that these police efforts were made. The government began work with the then Minister of Justice Beatrice Ask and set it up as a Nordic cooperation. To begin with, they gave a mandate from the Nordic Council of Ministers. It is difficult to involve several states. It takes time because all states think their own rules are the best rules. It's a matter of getting along. But it is also, as Linda Snecker has mentioned, a difficult matter. There are lots of details in the exercise of authority that need to be clarified and clarified. Therefore, we must respect the fact that such an assignment takes time. This has been reviewed very carefully. There have been investigations into increased police cooperation in the Nordic countries and the EU. And there have been bilateral discussions between the different countries. That's good. Why did I want to wake up this exercise in 2007? Yeah, that depends a little bit on where I come from. I live quite close to the Torne Valley, and we had a rather infected discussion between the then majority and opposition just about that. The Torne Valley is a very specific border area. There is a river, and there are a lot of crossings. You usually speak the same language. You hang out across the border. It is a living border area between countries that are very close to each other. This is particularly well symbolized by Haparanda and Tornio cities. It can be hard to take in listening, but it is easy to see when you go there. The Committee on Justice made one of its few visits to the country there – after a chatter from my side – and came to the realization that this is probably necessary and necessary. It is symbolized quite clearly by the square to be built in Rajala, where the land border basically crosses the square. The previous Schengen provisions mean that one could have Swedish police on one side. Should there then be a crime in the Swedish corner of the square, the Swedish police could run after, make a tail, to the Finnish corner of the square. But should the crime be committed in the Finnish corner of the square, then the Swedish police would not be able to cross over and prosecute the crime. This shows the problem in this. That is why we also had a united committee. Of course, there is further need in this. It is not only about the Torne Valley, but there is also a need along the Swedish-Norwegian border. But it is specifically and clearly updated in the Torne Valley, especially in these cities – or the town of Haparanda-Tornio. Then why was this infected? Well, in part it was infected because there was a bigger EU job going on at the time. It was about the Prüm Council and Atlas cooperation. There were very different political views. Therefore, it is a little fascinating to see what the journey for political parties can actually look like. One of the great points of this Nordic cooperation is that you can co- patrol under Swedish leadership and use your resources in a common and good way. To this end, there is Article 17 of the Prüm Council Decision, which the Government highlights as a possible way forward. After all, the Prüm Council decision meant that we had greater, wider cooperation. On the one hand, we had a greater exchange of information on DNA, fingerprints and vehicle registers, and, on the other hand, we had cooperation on the prevention of terrorist offences and cooperation on events, disasters and serious accidents. However, we were also given the opportunity to co - patrol under Article 17. How did the various parties react to this? Strangely enough, all parties were in favour of Nordic cooperation, but the Left Party and the Green Party were consistently opposed to the Prüm Council cooperation at all. They didn't even want to be able to exchange vehicle data even though our vehicle register was already public. The Social Democrats had a little more difficulty making up their minds. The exchange of information was welcomed as an opportunity, but the reservation definitely rejected Article 17 of the Prüm Council – the same article that the same party today highlights as the great opportunity. So sometimes party politics can be a bit funny. You act in a way in opposition and should prompt be against, but when you get into government work you realize that you have to use the existing law to achieve different kinds of progress. Now I shouldn't be unnecessarily whining, but I think this is kind of funny. I am most pleased that, after nine years, a month and four days, we will ensure that we actually have a functioning police cooperation so that we, too, in an area such as the Torne Valley, where we will never be able to have enough police staff to cope with all the situations, can have a situation where the nearest police car can intervene no matter on which side of the border it stands. Again, good work this time, government! And thank you, the Social Democrats, for being wise enough to change your mind!
i-48a9b834c2386528-189	Madam President, I would like What age you have when you are convicted is very important in the criminal proceedings, not for the crime that has been committed – it is the same no matter what age you have – but for the sentence, what is called punishment in the people's mouth. There is a long tradition of special treatment for young offenders in the penal system. Because young people are young, the penal system has been adapted to the fact that young people have not reached the same level of development as adults. As a result, interventions against young people are milder than interventions against adults. There are specific provisions on the handling of a number of authorities such as police, prosecutors and courts in the case of young offenders. The rules are often designed with a specific age as a starting point: 15, 18 or 21 years. The age of the suspect or accused person is therefore of decisive importance for the punishment that can be imposed. Special treatment for children and young people is important. There is a point in children being allowed to be children. There are many other parties that question this, but here I want to be clear: a child is a child, whether or not the child is suspected of a crime. I don't think I'm the only one following Kevin's case on TV. It is a story that really shows how vulnerable children are in the legal process and how inclined the adult world is to impose their own opinion and make children believe that it is the truth – obligation to a crime, for example, or perhaps the child's own age. It has long been the case that if a person is suspected of a crime and you do not know the age of the person, a so-called body inspection can be done. It is an age assessment, precisely one that we are used to seeing debated in the context of asylum seekers and unaccompanied refugee children. However, the Supreme Court recently ruled that age assessment can no longer be carried out in criminal proceedings unless the young person thinks it is okay for an age assessment to be made. As a result, the National Board of Forensic Medicine now only performs medical age assessments if the young person in question thinks it is okay. The proposal that the government is now presenting aims to restore the legal situation as perceived earlier, before the Supreme Court delivered its judgment. The government wants it to be clearly stated in the Code of Criminal Procedure that one should be able to investigate a youth's age if the person is suspected of crimes that can cause prison. Youth does not need to approve or agree to age s assessment. The investigation should therefore be possible against a person's own will. The Left Party wants that proposal rejected. Persons who may be eligible for age assessment are present both in the criminal procedure and in the asylum process. Sometimes these are the same individuals. In both contexts, the youth's age plays a major role. Age is of great importance, and of course it is important to find out the age of a person who is suspected of something. It can even be of benefit to the person because there is extensive protection legislation that protects the young person. But doing an investigation against someone's will is not right. We should be aware that today there is no method that can determine the exact age of an individual. It's basically the same method of age assessment, whether it's criminal proceedings or residence permit applications – and nobody's accurate. The methods for assessing the age of unaccompanied asylum seekers have varied over the years and have been more or less arbitrary. In a report from 2016, the National Board of Health and Welfare pointed to the uncertainty in the methods of age assessment regarding both the 15-year limit and the 18-year limit and therefore recommended pilot studies on both borders. The Left Party believes that a young suspect – as from 1 May this year for age assessment in the asylum process – should have the opportunity but not be forced to undergo medical age assessment in cases where the young person's age is uncertain and has a bearing on the issue of penalties. That's why we're refusing the bill. I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-48a9b834c2386528-202	Madam President, I would like It is essential to trust in the rule of law that the right persons are convicted of crimes they have committed and that they receive a balanced penalty. Here the government proposes a clarification regarding body inspection in order to investigate age so that the right punishment can be imposed. The bill proposes clarification in the court code of when body inspection may be carried out to investigate the suspect's age. Body inspection to investigate age shall be allowed to be carried out on a person reasonably suspected of a crime which may lead to imprisonment. A condition shall be that the age of the suspect is relevant to whether the sentence may be imposed or to the other issue of the penalty. When the suspect's age is unknown, a regime has long been in place where the rules on body inspection in the Code of Criminal Procedure have been used to investigate whether the suspect is of criminal age and for other situations where age has a bearing on the issue of penalties. The results of these assessments, together with other investigations, have subsequently been invoked in court. However, the Supreme Court has ruled that there is no legal basis for carrying out a body inspection for this purpose. The decision states that the wording of the provision focuses on what may be relevant for the investigation of the crime. According to the Supreme Court, this should be understood in such a way that the circumstances may be relevant as evidence or otherwise contribute to the investigation of the act or who has committed it. Circumstances relevant to the sentence, such as the age of the suspect, are not, however, covered by the wording, according to the Supreme Court. It is essential that there is a possibility for the investigating authorities, or ultimately the courts, to have a medical age assessment if the suspect's age is unclear. Otherwise, the authorities will often have to rely on the suspect's own data on his age. There is then a significant risk that serious crimes will not be investigated or that the prosecutor will not be able to meet his burden of proof or duty of investigation, with the result that prosecution cannot be instituted or that the prosecution will be dismissed. The result may also be that sentenced persons receive less interventional punishment than they would have received if age could have been investigated more closely. Such an arrangement would often lead to offensive results, not least in the light of the interests of the plaintiffs in the investigation and prosecution of crimes. This is particularly true in the case of very serious crime. It is also inappropriate for adults convicted of a serious crime to be placed with children in closed youth homes because their age has not been established. Today, there is no method of medical age assessment that can determine the exact age of an individual. Both the National Board of Forensic Medicine and the National Board of Health and Welfare have been tasked with reviewing the methods and increasing knowledge. Although a medical age assessment cannot accurately tell the age of the suspect, it is an important piece of the puzzle in the identification of the issue. The forensics' analyses and assessments are based on scientific basis and proven experience. When the National Board of Forensic Medicine pronounces itself on a person's age, the authority never pronounces itself with more certainty than the scientific methods allow. The uncertainty inherent in the assessment also has to be taken into account by the Court in its assessment of the evidence. Against this background, it is therefore proposed that the purpose of a body inspection be supplemented in such a way that it is explicitly stated in the Code of Procedure that a body inspection may be carried out to investigate the age of the suspect in the event that it is relevant to the possibility of a sentence being imposed or having an impact on the other issue of the penalty. The completion only implies explicit legal regulation of what was deemed to apply in the practical application before the Supreme Court gave its decision. It is therefore a question of restoring the legal situation to the way in which it was perceived in the past on this point. According to the government, any extension of the possibility to decide on physical inspection in relation to what was considered to be applicable is not intended. The principles of legality, need, purpose and proportionality will, as in the past, guide implementation. According to the committee, it is of great importance that there is a possibility for the investigating authorities or the court to ultimately obtain a medical age assessment if the suspect's age is unclear. Otherwise, there is a significant risk that serious crimes will not be investigated or that the prosecutor will not be able to meet his burden of proof or duty of investigation with the result that prosecution cannot be instituted or that prosecutions will be dismissed. I therefore call for the proposal in the report to be approved and for reservations to be rejected.
i-WTxrS6oi17ZoxvkjaGcKsv	Madam President, I would like I support the proposal and the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. I agree with everything that was said in the speaker's chair by my colleague from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, Susanne Eberstein. What is crucial is to adapt the legislation to the situation that has been experienced in the past. It is in order to meet basic legal principles, which were also mentioned earlier. The principle of legality is extremely important when it comes to intervention against people under coercion. This is the case when you do a body inspection of someone, regardless of the purpose. Equal treatment shall be given to equal cases. It is a fundamental principle of a developed legal society. It's not that some should get away with it while others don't. The fact that it would be voluntary to escape or to be judged, as is the starting point of the Left Party, is absurd reasoning. If you don't know how things work, you can think that an assessment of this kind is done by an outsider talking about exactly, that it's 100 percent sure, that it's one way or the other – that it's 100 percent certain that someone is this or so old. That's not how it works. There is nothing that is 100% certain other than if one can surely say that it is clear. The Court's work is to deal with uncertainties. How often can you say that you certainly know that someone has committed a crime, that you are 100 percent sure? It hardly occurs – perhaps occasionally. Otherwise, it is a question of having achieved the requirement of proof in order for someone to be judged. It is beyond reasonable doubt. There may be doubts, but no reasonable doubt, that someone has committed an act. There are a number of other issues in which so-called expert witnesses or various types of court opinions are used. It has been a tradition, for example, in paternity cases when the paternity of children is to be determined, which has had far-reaching consequences. These cases have been investigated with less certainty than is necessary to be convicted of criminal offences in a court of law. This is a good and perfectly reasonable proposal. It cannot be that those over 15 years of age, but claiming to be 14 – at 14, you are not a criminal and cannot be convicted – should be able to choose to undergo a medical age assessment, which can show that the person is 18 years of age. The outcome of the assessment can beat so much. There are people who have probably been quite old, over 20 years old, and who have been in accommodation for unaccompanied minors and also in other contexts where age has not been established in the past. Still, it has come to light. There are also examples in Sweden where German age assessment has been used as a basis for judging in criminal cases. I think it is very good to have this opportunity, which should also be clearly stated in the legislation. It is not that one should be able to choose whether one wants to risk being convicted or not, but the same case should be treated equally. If you have committed a crime and the age is important for the question whether you can be convicted at all or for the penalty issue, it should be investigated. I support the committee's proposal and the proposal, Madam President.
i-48a9b834c2386528-221	Madam President, I would like Right should be right! Right, Anti Avsan? Just as you said in the speaker's chair, equal treatment shall be given. However, I think you are somewhat preposterous about age assessments, and I think that I and the Left might think that this is a 100% legal process that can determine someone's age in months and years and that there is therefore some uncertainty from us. It's not like that. We are critical of the age assessment because neither the National Board of Health and Welfare nor the National Board of Forensic Medicine in any way has an assessment basis that is as reliable as we would like it to be. We've talked about that a lot today. What I have never heard the Moderates talk about in the Committee on Justice, however, is something that is very close to age assessment and the concept. That is really what we are talking about today: what kind of children's perspective should we have in the legal process? Do the Moderates want the Convention on the Rights of the Child to become law? I've never heard anything about that. What is your view of the children's perspective in the legal process? We also tend to debate the arrest of children, something that the Left Party is strongly critical of and wants to ban. The Moderates, on the other hand, are making a significant move on the issue of child detention. Equal treatment should be equal, you say. But we also know that children have a special position in the legal process. There I would like to hear the opinion of the Moderates.
i-48a9b834c2386528-226	Madam President, I would like It is not just an immediate matter of people of this age, such as those under the age of 18 who are children. This could be about adults who have committed crimes in the past. It may be a very serious crime that has not been time-barred. If it is not known how old the person is, when the person is not born in the country and there is no birth certificate or anything else, it may be a matter of determining the age when the person is an adult. Did you commit the crime before you were 15 years old or not? Then the action itself, body inspection to ascertain age, is something that comes when you are an adult. When it comes to children's perspective: It is absolutely obvious that you are a child if you are under 18 years of age. This is reflected in the legislation in a great many places. We have never had any other opinion than that we should have a criminal age of 15 years. We also have specific rules on how to measure penalties for those under 21 today. There is an ongoing discussion about whether to have lower penalty values for those who, for example, are serious criminals and fully aware of what they are doing but are 20 years old. There are other rules in the criminal code to assess whether the person had the maturity that is reasonable and that people generally have when they have done something. It could be a matter of age. It can also be malfunctioning, impaired intellectual ability or something else. I don't think the Left Party and Linda Snecker have really thought it through when this can happen, so to speak.
i-48a9b834c2386528-228	Madam President, I would like Well, it's just that we've thought it through. Above all, we have thought this through from a child's perspective, because children are extremely vulnerable throughout the trial process. As I said, we have a current case that is on TV right now, namely the Kevin case. This shows the extreme situation in which children find themselves, and we must learn from this. You note, Anti Avsan, that we have age limits in legislation: 15 years, 18 years and 21 years. You say that's what the law says. But it is not possible to interpret the Moderates in any other way than that it sways very much when it comes to your view of when children are really children. There is a direct talk about maturity and about various attritions that accompany the age process and that I think you would like to change with pleasure, just as you are happy to tighten up various kinds of punishment without being able to justify what it should actually produce. I note that the Moderates have no problem in taking more intervention measures against children, such as forcing someone to an age assessment. You think it's perfectly okay to arrest children with restrictions and isolation. There your voice is definitely not strong, but it might even be needed there. Do the Moderates want the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law? If so, how the hell are you going to reconcile this with your legal policy? That would be very interesting to hear.
i-48a9b834c2386528-232	Madam President, I would like There are very many people who have completely unrealistic expectations of the Convention on the Rights of the Child as Swedish law. It will not change anything in substance, it will only introduce more uncertainty and possibly to the detriment of children. My specific question to Linda Snecker is based on what is in the reservation: a suspect should have an opportunity, but not be forced, to undergo a medical age assessment in cases where the young person's age is uncertain and has a bearing on the issue of penalties. How old you were when you committed the crime has a bearing on the question of penalties. If you don't know how old a person is, but surely 26 years old and committed a crime when he or she was perhaps 17 years old and nine months old – let's say a bestial murder – should it be an opportunity to undergo a medical age assessment in order for the relevant penalty to be imposed? I find that absurd. I said it earlier in the speaker's chair, and I'll say it again. I don't think this has been considered. Then Linda Snecker can stand and try to paint on us a picture of both one and the other. You can look at what the Left Party stands for on various issues. They change their feet and move from one position to the other, as we saw in the previous case. I don't think they have the greatest impact. I do not believe that the Left Party is or will ever be a leader in Swedish law policy.
