i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-10	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating motions and the report dealing with the government's letter Power, goal and authority – feminist policy for an equal future. The letter is basically a position on the report Goal and Authority – Effective governance of gender equality policy as well as a national strategy against men's violence against women and honour-related violence and oppression. Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. We have a high employment rate among women internationally. We have generous parental insurance and a well-developed childcare system that provides the opportunity for parents to take a large responsibility for children and at the same time to work. It is also an explanation of the good growth we have in the country. Everyone can work regardless of gender. In Sweden we have overall been good at gender equality, and Swedish women have since the 1970s increased their economic power and thus their independence. In the area by area we can see how women soon catch up with men, and in some areas they are already over. For example, more women than men are currently studying further at the university. Another positive development is that men take out more and more parenting days. Mr President, I would like to Of course, much remains to be done before society and working life are equal. Women still earn less than men and work part-time to a greater extent. This affects women's income and means lower benefits in the event of illness, unemployment and ultimately not least lower pensions. We have a government that calls itself feminist while acting in the opposite direction than in favour of better equality. The government pulls away the feet of free welfare companies where women are mainly business leaders. Reepalus's proposal to ban profit would be devastating for women's entrepreneurship. We have a government that believes that quotas to company boards will solve social problems. This proposal concerns only a few women who are already established in the labour market. Nor do they want to sit on a board because they are women, but because of the skills they possess. The Social Democrats shout for quotas on company boards while the municipal companies have fewer women on their boards. LO does not have much to boast about either. In Building Board there is not a single woman, not one. Trade unions shall be subject to rules other than those which pay for welfare. That is what the Social Democrats and the Green Party think is good. In the free welfare companies run by women, both sickness and co-determination are in order to influence work better. S and MP don't think that's good. The major challenge for gender equality is not spelled quota or a new gender equality agency, which the government advocates. Does the government think that a woman who is not allowed to dress as she wants or marry whom she wants or who lives under violence and oppression will think that quotas or a new equality authority will solve the broad societal problems? Unfortunately, we have allowed backward societies to emerge where the man is seen as the norm in the opposite direction of what we have been fighting for hundreds of years. That's where we're going to put the big resources and that's where we make the biggest difference. We must have a rule of law that takes these problems seriously. It is criminal to oppress, assault, threaten or marry someone against the person's will. There are women in our country who do not live free. There must be sheltered housing in the municipalities. This is a much more important issue than a new authority. We can say that we live in a Sweden where much is getting better, but at the same time we go back when it comes to gender equality in certain areas. It will be a divided country with great differences. We do not want such a country. In Sweden, you must have the same rights regardless of your name or where you come from. The feminist government now risks, with the new focus on gender equality policy, breaking up well-functioning activities through the creation of a new gender equality authority. In your faith to do something good, you risk doing a disservice. The National Centre for Women's Peace at Uppsala University, the County Administrative Board of Östergötland County, the National Board of Health and Welfare and the County Administrative Board of Stockholm County has today the national competence and coordination mission regarding men's violence against women. These organisations are now facing an uncertain future, thanks to the government's plans. A new authority must be filled with tasks and content. Then there is a great risk that the competence from Uppsala and Östergötland will not go to Gothenburg, where the new authority will be located. This may involve experiences such as staffing the support phone that the national competence team for Östergötland and Kvinnofridslinjen in Uppsala has. This is exactly how the government should act if it wants to break up a well-functioning operation that has been built up for many years. It is not because the activities work badly that they should be crushed, but because the government wants to show action by creating a new authority. We very much regret that direction. Statskontoret, another respected authority, has recently written a report on the national mission on men's violence against women, an analysis of government governance. Statskontoret believes that despite some shortcomings, the operations have functioned relatively well, and the conclusion in the report is that the current organisation and division of responsibilities should be maintained. If there are some overlaps between the authorities, this is primarily because the coordination at the Government Office is not working properly. That is the reason for the problem. If there are ambiguities, Statskontoret further believes that this is mainly due to a lack of communication about how the responsibility is distributed. Of course, there may be justification for changing, but not in this case because it has been established that the activities are fulfilling their mission. A new gender equality agency risks breaking up several years of work and research. We do not know exactly what will happen with the new authority. The government says it will consider and come back later. The government has all the power in the world to establish a new authority. Parliament cannot ban it, but, as I said, it will not improve for the vulnerable women who need help now. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I can inform the Parliament that there is no government before the alliance government that has invested as much in equality. A total of SEK 2.6 billion was allocated in order to increase equality between men and women. The Alliance government mainly prioritised action against men's violence against women. In addition, the measures concerned gender equality in education and increased knowledge of women's health. The Alliance's work line has increased the conditions for economic equality. The driving forces for work have been strengthened, especially for women, who are over-represented among low and middle-income earners. The government now wants to roll back that policy. Instead, the Moderates want to strengthen the drivers of jobs by reducing taxes on labour, with the emphasis on those with the lowest incomes. In order to reduce the unequal distribution of work in the home, we want to strengthen the gender equality bonus and introduce a vab bonus. Since women's ill health rates are higher and more women than men are forced to leave working life prematurely, we want to continue our efforts to improve women's working environment, especially in health and social care. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, all individuals should be able to design their lives regardless of gender. Gender should not be an obstacle to becoming what you want. Having said that, I am in favour of reservations 1 and 7.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-38	Mr President, I would like to So, as we have just heard, today we are dealing with a report based both on a letter on the future governance of gender equality policy and on a number of general motions based on gender equality. When you talk about gender equality, it is very important to start from what you really mean. One word can mean completely different things to different individuals. Much of this is also seen in the report, based on our respective reservations and on the wording of the committee text. One such example is that the committee claims that the Swedish Democrats claim that gender equality policy is superfluous. All of this actually stems from the fact that we have completely different views on what gender equality means, what goals we should pursue and how we should work in this direction. Most recently in the foreign debate, I heard a member of the Swedish Parliament talking about the so-called women's ideals of the Swedish Democrats – as if we were to have a special women's ideal. I dare to say that it is completely absurd, because the only ideal we have is that every citizen of the country should be free to shape their life any way you want, given that you obey our laws. We do not set specific rules for women and specific rules for men. We do not set specific targets for women and specific targets for men. Our policy nowhere has the slightest sign that one should look after the gender of people when dealing with different political proposals about what should apply to different rules and so on. This can be found, however, in government policy, among other things. A little later in the committee text, it states explicitly how the government, and also the committee as a whole, can be adopted, takes a positive view of quotas, as long as it is called positive discrimination. It is criticised that, among others, we Swedish democrats expressly oppose this. It is argued that discriminatory measures are needed to achieve equality. That is why sometimes people's gender is a factor in deciding where they should be in society, what jobs they should have, what jobs they should get, what training places they should take part in and so on. In my world, this is totally indefensible. Possibly there could be a special point in promoting pioneers if there was no other opportunity for women and men to participate in the same way in life. But in Sweden, which is thankfully a very equal country in relation to many others, we no longer have this need. Instead, we need to show, strengthen and stand up because we are actually equally capable regardless of the gender or gender identity we have. Mr President, I would like to I shall continue to talk about what is in the committee report. It states that a prerequisite for gender equality is a well-functioning welfare sector. Reference is made, among other things, to the welfare billions invested in the last budget. As we should all be aware, this is also more surface than content. We know that the so-called welfare billions are really there to try to compensate for a small part of a loss that exists as a result of a policy that no longer holds our whole country together. It is a policy that has burdened society unfairly and which continues to mean that there are huge holes in the state's welfare budget. They say they want to strengthen the welfare sector. It could be about enabling greater equality by people actually having access to childcare facilities and being able to free up their choices or having access to good care, which often women in particular need at present, partly because we live longer and partly because, for example, the sick leave rates show a definite over-representation of women. However, if we are serious about this, the few billions put in the budget are not enough, but more effort is needed in general. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that the Swedish Democrats are doing this in their budget. This is happening again in a lot of places. Many of the initiatives we make are found in other parts of the Swedish Parliament's work than in this particular report. I can already mention that in our specific opinions we are talking, for example, about the efforts we are making in the area of health. We invest both in more research and in different gender-specific diseases, where differences actually exist, and they are worth addressing in order to achieve an equal society. We are investing in economic freedom by ensuring that the state provides the resources that may be needed at least at the beginning to allow more public sector operators to go up to full-time. This would mean that many, and especially women, would be removed from the involuntary part-time work. It is a strengthening of content and substance, and it strengthens both welfare and gender equality. And it's not just surface. Mr President, I would like to The reason why I have spoken a lot about space today should be clear to most people who have been in the country in the last week. A heated debate has taken place mainly in social media, but also in ordinary media, about what you have on your head when you are in our country and when you are in other countries. We have had debates in the past about bathing times and how to behave in classrooms. Should it be distinctive or not? Should women and men have sport together or should they be separated? To some extent, this can be considered superficial. Provided you have full freedom, it is easy to think that if someone wants separate pages or a shawl on your head, you can have it. The problem is, of course, when you do not see the times when this is rooted in oppression. The worst example, Mr President, we saw during the state visit to Iran last week. And I am not talking about the fact that the government representatives chose to wear a veil. There may be circumstances that explain this. You're supposed to trade, and it's reasonable to comply with laws. The fact is that we are nowhere – at least not as far as I know – have been told that you did everything you could to avoid this. It did not attempt to negotiate or ensure whether there was any possibility of a diplomatic meeting without our women ministers having to submit to a system and legislation that oppresses women citizens in the country where there is a constant and active struggle to get away from this oppression. This is also reflected in the humorous picture that was posted in social media the other day. There, the veiling and criticism of this were equated with the fact that in Sweden, according to the old custom, they wear hats at state visits. Thankfully, the Minister of Finance backed down and apologized for this. However, it shows somewhere that there is a lack of understanding of how oppression is expressed and how deep, strong and hard people are affected by it. There is a great deal of placard politics, surface area and quick score. It's distressing to see. Mr President, I would like to The same is true of the authority that has been announced. The process for its launch has been initiated by the government. We also deal with it to some extent in the letter. When Statskontoret visited us in the committee a few weeks ago to explain its work and its view of how gender equality policy should be governed in the future, it emerged that there is only one possible advantage with just one authority. This only small possible advantage is that one can point to the authority and say that we care about gender equality – we do have an equality authority. The second advantage that they had seen is that there is a clear place where responsibility lies for coordinating the work on gender equality carried out in our country. However, as Statskontoret itself points out, and which is not very difficult to understand for itself, this coordinating responsibility can just as well be organised within an existing authority. The responsible minister would have been able to get a unit with this responsibility somewhere in an already existing authority where strong work is already being done. There is every possibility of achieving the actual benefits of content without establishing a new authority and risking ongoing activities when they do not know what they will continue to do. Nor is it known how many of the people who have today worked up an expertise that can accompany, how the transition should take place or how well the work will work. Previous experience with the merger of activities under the same authority has shown that it does not provide significant efficiency benefits but, on the other hand, costs a lot in terms of the need to reorganise and rebuild a base platform. In the committee's view, all the alliance parties had in one way or another expressed some criticism of this authority. Unfortunately, during the course of the work, the Liberals withdrew from their position of permanent at least the work in Östergötland against honour-related violence and repression. I can only regret that. At present, therefore, all of the activities currently carried out around the country for gender equality will be in a clearly risky situation. It will not continue to know what will happen in a few years' time, and the activities will be fragmented in several places rather than better coordinated. Finally, I would like to say a few extra words on the report's point on what is called men's violence against women. We have a reservation here that focuses very much on honour-related violence and repression. We support the obvious need for more knowledge acquisition, clearer broad work and work to see the whole. Women are not the only ones affected. It is not only men's violence against women that one can easily believe when it is under that heading, but it is often a whole family, a whole family or a whole society that oppresses and accuses women or men. Brothers are forced to act against their sisters. Mothers are forced to reject their daughters. Homosexual men and women end up being excluded from their own family and society, not just the majority society. They are completely alone as they no longer have any connection with those who should really be their closest. There is an enormous amount of work to be done in this area. We have for a long time allocated more resources in our budgetary policy, for example, to ensure, together with the women's shelters, that there is access to hotlines specialised in the issue of honour, because it is another problem picture. I would also like to take this opportunity to emphasise the problem of using the concept of men's violence against women as an umbrella concept. Some are what I have just mentioned, such as using it as an umbrella concept and including a kind of violence and oppression that actually has completely different bottoms. But it also risks giving a distorted picture, such as that there would never be violence against men in heterosexual relationships or violence in close relationships of another form – same-sex relationships. The problem should reasonably apply to violence in close relationships. We know that it is a grave over-representation of men's violence against women, at least in terms of what is reported about physical violence and what is easy to see, but we also know that there is a dark figure for violence against men, both psychologically, where the dark number is high for everyone, and physically, where there is still a much higher shame factor for a man to announce that his partner has beaten him than the reverse. These are factors that have to be taken into account. There are still problems that need to be taken into account. That is why we have also chosen to support a request from the Christian Democrats that the concept as such should be updated and changed. Mr President, I would like to The reservations to which I agree are Nos 13 and 9.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-65	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the government's letter Power, case and authority. I have a number of reservations in the report, which I naturally support, but I call for time-winning approval only for reservations 7 and 10. This is a broad and deep area. In my speech, I will focus on the objectives, the strategy and the structure. During my first term of office in the Swedish Parliament, I was involved in making decisions on the first four gender equality policy objectives: on power and influence, on economic equality, on the equal distribution of unpaid work and on the cessation of men's violence against women. After that, of course, we have been working on this for many years. Some of the objectives may not have been as clearly developed as the fourth objective of men's violence against women. This issue has some extra complications, as it is so clearly a matter of criminal acts. In today's report there are proposals to add the areas of equal education and health. We think it is good that the previous four objectives should be complemented by these two. With regard to economic equality, the report and the proposal state that the government has nothing against women starting and running businesses. But surgical precision has succeeded in removing all promotion efforts. The opportunities that exist in areas where mostly women have started and run businesses also want to limit. You're very good at saying one thing but doing something completely different. This is also illustrated in our exercise and in our reservations. Otherwise, however, we think it is a good thing that the four objectives should be supplemented by two more. Mr President, I would like to It also proposes to work on a national strategy to prevent and combat violence against women by men. That is something we also welcome. This is precisely what it is about doing preventive work, raising knowledge, involving all the sectors concerned and trying to take a holistic approach with a strategy that means that there is not so much risk of getting between the chairs, even though there are seven authorities involved, I think is a very important approach. That is not to say that it is simple, but I think it is absolutely crucial to try to bring together all the good we do so that it is somehow coordinated and benefits the women who are vulnerable. We think this is wise, and we have been calling for it for a long time. Now it's really just waiting for a workshop and that it should also be filled with content. The letter also announces a more strategic and coherent governance. Even in that part, we agree. We have also seen that there is a great need to ensure that the missions for support, methodological development, exchange of experience, achievement of objectives and follow-up are brought together and clarified in this area. However, when we have discussed these issues, we have come to the conclusion that we do not want to risk everyone else who has a mission today being able to take a small step back and say that there is now someone else in charge. We have said that it is very important that we get these things done, but we would like to have them into an existing structure so that there remains a clear responsibility of the respective authorities and the respective ranks to work on these issues down in the business, where there is a bang for the money. We therefore agree with the need for coherent governance, but we do not agree with the need for a new authority. The most serious thing in this is that the government chooses to turn down existing activities, where things actually happen and happen that affect our everyday lives in the right direction. This applies partly to the County Administrative Board in Stockholm County, which has a mission linked to trafficking and prostitution, and partly to the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County, which has worked with honour violence and oppression for a long time. Until Wednesday evening we had a majority in the committee so that Östergötland would have a permanent mission, but then there was a new offer. Now they've had respite for three years. You have to take the opportunity to celebrate the warm and good thing in not having to be laid down right now; soon it will be quite wet and cold. The Knowledge and Resource Centre NCK in Uppsala, the National Centre for Women's Peace, has, with over 20 years on its neck, worked up a knowledge and a stable platform and over the years has developed into a very important instance in these issues. Over the years, we have given many assignments that they have developed and carried out. To see now that the government, which claims to want to improve these parts, chooses to dismantle the authority that may have meant the most that working methods and working methods are actually implemented out in municipalities and county councils is extremely sad. Statskontoret, which has reviewed the assignment to these three, and also the National Board of Health and Welfare, which has a share in the responsibility, sees no need to change the organisation or division of responsibilities. On the contrary, it warns that this will lead to a reduction in productivity and efficiency. Competence will be lost. Cooperation between authorities will be broken. They have worked hard for many years to get close cooperation between the authorities and have gained great confidence and trust, and they are also helping on these issues. At the end of the day, it will be the violent women who will be affected. What, then, does the NCK do for anyone who has not had to deal with them or who for other reasons has no contact with them? It's a unique instance. They're on a double mission. They combine research and education with clinical activities. Within the house they have development, but they also meet the violent women. They do so in clinics that they have in place, but also via the phone with Kvinnofridslinjen. They have more than 20 years of experience. The first term of office was the Federal President of the Center Women. In autumn 2004, Ingegerd Sahlström, former Member of Parliament of the Social Democrats from Halland, called all the presidents of the various parties and said: I have looked at the National Women's Centre in Uppsala and see that we would need to raise up so that they get a national mission to increase knowledge but also spread it out into the country. I think it was a united parliament that supported it. Since 2006, they have had the national mandate and developed their activities. In education they are very large. For example, there is a web-based introductory course that you can go online and started last autumn. They already have 6,500 who have walked it. You can take a course in a work community that wants to increase knowledge in the field or why not a study circle at home if you want to know more about it yourself. They have also built up so that they have university education. It is about basic education, but also further education with university credits. They have participation in other training courses. They also participate in other universities with their skills. NCK also has a knowledge bank where they gather research, facts and subject guides on violence and publish from government agencies. You can access their website and receive more than 80,000 publications. There were 157 000 people who did it in 2015. It is very often people who work in establishments where they meet the violent women. That knowledge bank is being expanded all the time. It is also linked to a method and competence support that NCK, together with the County Administrative Board, has developed for the work of the municipalities. The Kvinnofridslinjen is also a very important business. There, Statskontoret notes that it will not be able to move to an authority. The prerequisite for it to function as it does is that it is not in any case in an authority. It's open 24 hours a day. Staff are trained. The line is for those who are exposed to threats and violence or for those who suspect that someone close to you is exposed to threats and violence. It may also be those in the profession who feel that they need support and help in a response and need to have another person to talk to. There are over 30,000 calls a year. The figure for 2015 is 86 calls per day on average. For those who look at this at home in the sofa, the telephone number is 020 - 50 50 50. You're anonymous, it doesn't cost anything, and it's not on the call list. In the years that we have had a job where we have invested a lot, just as Erik Andersson described, I can describe two examples of government assignments that they have received. They are clear examples of something that is then available to support care and how you can work better with these issues. One mission was the tracking kit. There we said that there must be an opportunity for the care to be able in the first meeting with someone who has been subjected to rape to take the right samples, ask the right questions and make the right documentation for the police and prosecutors in the next step to be able to use it. It is now developed and available for all county councils, all health centres and all emergencies. Even the doctor or nurse who has not previously met a rape victim will receive instructions, support and help to ask the right questions and take the right exams that can form the basis for the continued investigation work. Another task that NCK had was to ask about violence. What you see is that women who come in and are abused very often have long and thick records. They have repeatedly sought treatment for a great many different things. But they have never seen anyone ask themselves the question: What is behind the disease picture? In this they worked out a manual on how to ask the difficult questions as a health care professional. There was a lot of discussion about it. There they also had a great help in having the clinical activity linked to research and development. They could try the questions and see how the women who come to the clinic feel to be faced with the questions and then be able to produce a good guide material for staff in the operations around the country. It's a unique business, as I said earlier. The link between research and education and clinical activities is unique and very special. The government is prepared to break down now. I call for an impact assessment. Where has one sat down and seen: it will mean that and that, it will have those costs and it will be this many years before we have built up the skills again? If it is to strengthen and improve the government's goal, let NCK, Stockholm County Council and County Administrative Board and Östergötland County Administrative Board continue with their work. Do not tear down without building on what exists. A new authority is in danger of becoming a symbolism and placard policy, especially when operations that are in place and deliver will be cut off or phased out.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-84	Mr President, I would like to One hour. 60 minutes. Every day. SEK 4,200 a month. 3.6 million on a life. 76 billion in the labour market. 33 years. 76 billion on the labour market is the cost of structural wage discrimination. When services with equal training, responsibility and weight are compared, they are paid lower in the women-dominated professions. Women's professions, especially those dealing with caring for people, are valued lower – 76 billion lower. The average salary between men and women differs by SEK 4,200 a month, SEK 50,400 in one year and SEK 3.6 million in a working life. The consequences of this will then be lower pension, lower sickness benefit and lower parental benefit. Wage discrimination makes women poor. Women work 60 minutes for free every single day if we have a working day 8-17. At the last hour, only men will be paid if we translate the pay gap of 12.5% into a working day. Those girls who end high school this year and go directly to the labour market may experience equal pay during their final years before retirement. At the rate when the pay gap is narrowing, it will take 33 years before we achieve equal pay. Mr President, I would like to The government has taken a number of measures to combat structural wage discrimination in working life, and, like the committee, we welcome the government's focus on gender equality policy. We believe that the government's efforts and priorities during the 2014–2018 term are good and necessary to achieve an equal society. However, the Left Party believes that some further measures are needed to combat gender discrimination in the labour market and to tackle gender pay differentials. It is high time to take the next step towards a labour market without structural discrimination against women-dominated professions. The Left Party believes that if the structural pay gap between women's and male-dominated occupations is to be addressed, wages in the women-dominated sectors must be allowed to increase at a faster rate than in the male-dominated sectors. Wages on the Swedish labour market are included in contractual negotiations between the parties. The Left Party supports and defends the collective agreement model and does not believe that the state should interfere in what requirements either party pursues in contract negotiations. However, within the framework of the Swedish labour market model, the state can play a role in wage formation through the Mediation Institute. Like the committee, we believe that the agency has an important role to play in promoting a gender perspective on pay. However, the Mediation Institute also has the task of contributing to a well-functioning wage formation, where the competitive industry sets the norm for the rate of wage increase – the so-called brand. It is clear that in practice these objectives have come to be in conflict with each other. The normative role of the label means that the pay gap between traditionally women-dominated and traditionally male-dominated professions is not only consolidated but is increasing. The fact that the Government has commissioned the Mediation Institute to analyse the construction of key collective agreements from a gender perspective is positive. However, unless the interpretation of what is well-functioning wage formation is discussed and problematised from a structural gender perspective, there is a clear risk that this will not be more than a blow in the air. Against this background, I believe that the government should change the mandate of the Mediation Institute so that it is clear that industry's wage standards should not be interpreted in such a way that active efforts to reduce the structural pay gap between male and female dominated professions are made impossible. The Left Party notes that 75 per cent of those working in industry, and 79 per cent of managers, are men today. It has an impact on attitudes and standards as well as opportunities for further training, parental leave, working environment, health and pay. For example, women in industry are given more monotonous and monotonous tasks with less opportunity to develop skills than their male colleagues. Industry must work actively towards a more equal labour market. According to the Left Party, Swedish industry needs systematic and basic work with clear goals in order to become an equal industry. This could include, for example, making use of annual pay surveys, quotas and regular reviews of skills development and wage systems. The research results that exist must be taken into account and concretised. Work on equal recruitment must permeate all levels of activity. It is not good enough that the company has good figures on paper but that gender segregation nevertheless follows the traditional division in terms of administration versus production. In order for long-term and forward-looking change work to come about, political will and priority needs to be given to the issue from a company's point of view. The work must permeate the entire industry and also hold for reorganisations and periods of recession. The demands for a more equal industry must permeate the entire supply chain and also apply to entrepreneurs and subcontractors. In France, companies with at least 50 employees may have to fine 1% of their wage budget if they cannot present a plan for equal pay. Sweden should introduce similar legislation so that companies are forced to take the issue of equal pay for equal work seriously. For we do not have time to wait, and above all, our daughters do not have time to wait. With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 4. I would also like to highlight the issue of a gender equality authority, which has been raised here, Mr President. It seems that most agree that there is a need for coordination, but from a bourgeois point of view it should not be an equality authority. The question then is what it should be. We had previously JämO, which was closed down and went up in the Discrimination Ombudsman. We know from this experience that gender issues disappeared from the map or at least were very neglected. I do not share the concerns raised by some here that this would tear down a lot of work that has been done. On the contrary, the research and experience that exists is actually something you can take advantage of, and it can spread to the whole country. That is the problem today – that there are isolated islands that work well here and there in the country but that it does not spread throughout the country. Furthermore, gender equality work is not something that permeates our society as a whole; it is only those who wish to do so. It is a rather old bourgeois policy to think that equality comes of itself. We know it doesn't. When the Moderates led the government, gender equality went backwards. Sweden lost investments. The income differentials between men and women increased during the bourgeois government. It is nice to hear Moderates talk about the need for support for women's shelters and so on, but they gave no support during their time in government. A lot of money was spent, but no support was given to the women's shelters. This has been contributed by the Left Party, together with the now Social Democratic-led government. That's what I'm talking about, but it's a workshop.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-105	Mr President, I would like to I reacted a little already at the beginning of Rossana Dinamarcas's speech, when she said that women's work is valued less than men's work. To some extent I agree with this, but it also reflects the differences between us both in terms of what we see as equality. If you just look at the purely economic, you can see that it is a fact – women's dominated professions have worse economic conditions. Women suffer from lower wages and lower conditions in the professions in which they work. However, as to what this is due to, I would argue that it is really because the work itself is valued more highly. Women work, as we all know, particularly in the public sector in those sectors that we consider to be so important to society that we have chosen to secure access to them by including them in the common, tax-funded welfare system. This is often part of the reason why the conditions are so much worse. When the public sector has had a monopoly on operating, it has had a completely different budget to move around with and quite different opportunities for competition. Employees have had completely different opportunities to negotiate and, for that matter, less opportunities to strike and so on. It is such vital tasks that they are carried out that they may hesitate a little bit more. The reason why I asked for a reply and wanted to ask a question is that the Left Party is clear that it wants, among other things, to abolish the RUT grant, which has actually made it possible to open up more private actors in many of these sectors. This has enabled female entrepreneurship and enabled employees to choose from more employers and negotiate on better terms. It is an actual, practical opportunity to value their work higher.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-109	Mr President, I would like to Let's back the band a bit more when the school was nationalized – if we're going to talk about the public sector. At that time, teachers had the same salary as MPs. Then the school was announced. The school was privatized. Today, Paula Bieler knows that teachers are not among those who earn as much as Members of Parliament. A lot has happened. To say in general that the public sector receives significantly less money than in the private sector is not even true today. Look at the conditions and salaries of the private sector in the welfare sectors. The picture doesn't match there either. Women's work is valued less. It does not matter whether it is in welfare, in the private sector or whether it is in occupations where high levels of education are required. In all situations, women's work is valued lower. That's the problem. I believe that there is an opportunity to make efforts in the public sector. We are usually employers, and we can make sure that women's work is valued higher. Removing welfare gains is an important factor in valuing women's work higher. Wins should not pay any pool manager in a tax haven or be tucked into some uncle's pockets. They should be used for wages, for students, for sick people or whatever it may be. It is distressing that every time you talk about RUT deductions, it is said that this is where women have their opportunities in the labour market. At the same time, we have heard in previous debates that women receive higher education to a greater extent than men. Why should those women be directed to doing cleaning work?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-113	Mr President, I would like to Why should all women be one and the same woman? There are those who train academically, and there are those who work in other industries. In fact, many women have started businesses and have made a completely different labour market act on, to choose their employer on, to negotiate on. Let's look at the school and the communiqué. Yes, absolutely! There have been other times with other conditions, and much has deteriorated. We want to see a government responsibility for the school. However, this does not prevent the fact that as soon as something is linked to welfare and is publicly funded, the budgetary possibilities are quite different. Therein lies the problem of opening up to more private operators and creating a completely different market where more opportunities are provided. The Left Party is pushing hard for a ban on profit. We do not see this as a solution, as we know, but rather as an increased picture of problems where an entire industry is at risk of falling apart. What is important is to ensure quality, to ensure that money, in the few cases it has happened, does not go to tax havens. The money invested in welfare should be used for welfare – be it for higher wages or for better quality in other ways. While we are talking about what we can do as an employer in the public domain, I wonder exactly how the Left Party thinks it should work for more full-time work. The Swedish Democrats are the only party, I am well aware, that has added additional resources to support the municipal activities that are employers to allow more people to go up to full-time positions – at least for a transitional period. From the left, I am well aware that only legislation and the like have been mentioned. How does the Left Party intend to do this in practice?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-118	Mr President, I would like to RUT should primarily be seen as a contribution to the rich. I would rather see that there is better care for the elderly and a better home service where the resources are used for the old people who need that help without necessarily being the ones who can pay for themselves. In this way, we can make better use of the money and also create a better welfare that benefits everyone, not just those who can pay. Then there was the question of the right to full time. Legislation is an extremely important part of the right to full-time employment. As things stand today, many women want to work full-time but do not have the right to do so. They exist in trade and in the welfare sectors. They are not offered full time, but are allowed to accept that part-time work is valid. Therefore, legislation is extremely important. In the municipalities where the Left Party is in charge, we have actively increased women's wages. That's how it should be. Paula Bieler had another question about the winnings. The reason the Left Party has raised the issue of profits in welfare – and there will be a bill shortly – is to ensure that money intended for welfare should not be used for anything other than welfare.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-122	Mr President, I would like to The politics of the Left Party does not make sense. It may not be surprising that I think so, but I can assure you that this is the case. On the one hand, you want to increase the salaries of women, and on the other hand, you say no to the job tax deductions introduced by the Alliance Government, which has resulted in an additional monthly salary being paid to a nurse per year. You want to ban companies in free welfare, which is driven primarily by women. Then there is the RUT deduction, which is also a good measure for integration. That's what the Left Party wants to ban. The most important question, Mr President, is that every third woman in our country feels insecure. The Left Party has not even mentioned that. Every third woman in our country feels insecure, and the Left Party does not even mention it! That is the important issue we need to address. What does the Left Party do to make these women feel more secure? At the same time, there are the vulnerable suburbs, which have major problems. The Left Party does not want to send the police there, raise the penalties or make the penalties more severe. What is the Left Party doing for the vulnerable women?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-126	Mr President, I would like to The result of the job tax deductions was clear. There was one group that benefited most, namely the wealthy men, Erik Andersson! It was not the women who were favored. Income differentials increased over your years. The great winners were the well-paid, well-paid men. These are hardly the people we usually consider need the job tax deduction. On the contrary! That is why the job tax credit was really bad, and it increased not only the gaps between men and women, but also between the poor and the poor. The gaps here increased faster than in all other OECD countries. You created poverty with the job tax deduction. Then there was the question of welfare companies. When you talk about RUT and privatization in welfare, you often say that it is women who have got a job and had to control their work. But let us take a closer look at the companies. It's men who rule. I am not in the least surprised that Erik Andersson and the Moderates are constantly working to make men feel much better. That's how it's been with your whole policy. Then there was the everyday fear that many women feel – which I myself feel every day. It is completely unreasonable for me as a 43-year-old woman to have to feel that fear every time, for example, I have been practicing. I wonder if I should take the short road through the forest grove or the long road where there are lights and cars. The daily fear I also live with, Erik Andersson, and it is tangible. It is also palpable because of the skin color and hair color I wear.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-130	Mr President, I would like to It is strange how the Left Party is arguing in this House. From the Moderate side, we see no difference. We only see individuals. They're important. There are individuals. As far as job tax deductions are concerned, those with low incomes were the ones who received the most in their wallets. I find the arguments of the Left Party a little strange. It wants to ban everything that has led women to choose more employers. They have been able to raise their wages by changing employers. Previously, there was only one employer to go to. It was either the municipality or the county council – and as we know, Mr President, municipalities and county councils are not the very best employers in terms of, for example, sickness rates and wages. You are pursuing a policy which goes in the opposite direction, which would not lift women. In fact, it is fortunate that this country has at some point been able to have bourgeois government. Mr President, I would like to I don't think Rossana Dinamarca really answered the question. The question was why the Left Party does not want more policemen or tougher and more severe penalties.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-135	Mr President, I would like to I didn't quite have time to finish talking about the everyday fear. The Left Party has for many years been pushing the issue of consent regulation and that we should introduce negligence crimes into sex crime legislation. It was nothing that the moderate government took hold of during its years. Now we see that it's really happening. Something's happening. It is an extremely important signal that it is women who control their own bodies. I think this is one of the most important elements of the whole gender equality policy – that women must have the right over their own bodies. We're not gonna tell them what to wear or not to wear. It's for women to decide for themselves. We should not have to be afraid of being subjected to violence solely because of the sex we carry. We shouldn't have to feel when a man walks behind us: I might be attacked just because I'm a woman. I see that a lot of work is needed on both sexual crimes and violence against women. These are things we've been suggesting and talking about a lot. As I said in the speaker's chair, the Left Party has been me d and has contributed to women's and girls' helpers getting more money. We have been pushing for many years, quite alone, for a new sex crime law. Now it's on. What has Erik Andersson achieved in this area? M says they only see individuals. It is so clear that every time you see only individuals, it is men who benefit. That's the thing about feminism-- you have to see the power structures, because otherwise it will continue to be that it's men who benefit.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-140	Mr President, I would like to At the end of your speech, Rossana Dinamarca, you described that we are now removing the assignments from NCK, the County Administrative Board Östergötland and the County Administrative Board Stockholm as well as certain assignments that lie with the National Board of Health and Welfare and place them in the Equality Agency. That would mean that this would finally be available to the whole country. I think that then you have missed that all these four already today have a national mission to spread all the knowledge that comes up and through county boards and other authorities implement what is being developed. The analysis that Statskontoret produced is very clear about the consequences of not continuing to build on the structures that already exist – and in that case possibly complements them with a new authority – but instead chooses to remove the assignments from NCK, the County Administrative Board Stockholm or the County Administrative Board Östergötland and the National Board of Health and Welfare. This means that skills are lost. It's about the people who work with these things not moving with them. NCK's unicity – you have research and development but also the clinical activity – I have not seen anything about building up in the new authority. Over the years, NCK has also worked closely with all other relevant authorities. It is about the Migration Agency, Arbetsförmedlingen and other actors who are responsible for implementing these things on the floor. It has been a journey to build that confidence and get to the point of having this cooperation, which is now at risk of being broken. I do not have an impact assessment from the government and government parties on what it actually means to do this way.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-145	Mr President, I would like to I think Annika will also ask Åsa Regnér, who is here. I'm sure she can answer more specifically. I do not believe that there is any reason to fear that the work that has been done will go to nothing. That work is important. I do not think any of us think it is an unimportant piece of work that has been done. But gathering it or putting the responsibility for it under an authority, I still think, is the best thing. So far, although a national mission has been carried out, this has been very fragmented. That's what I think is important about a gender equality authority – that the work gathers together. There is a variety of jobs that need to be brought together, and we need to work in an integrated way towards other authorities and other parts of our society in order to move forward. That is the problem today – it is going far too slow, and it is very much based on whether there is will elsewhere. That is what I see as the big difference with an equality authority, to be the driving force, because we do not have time to wait.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-148	Mr President, I would like to Statskontoret was tasked with carrying out an analysis of the government's governance in this area. It's very interesting. Statskontoret is therefore an authority that has the task of reviewing different types of agencies – how they do, how they work and how things work. That's its profession, you might say. In the analysis Statskontoret initially notes that it has not identified any major problems in terms of role or responsibilities between the four authorities. One sees no need for the government to change the organization or the division of responsibilities, and one is based on facts. It has been based on the parts where there is proximity. It can be seen that during the initial period there were run-in problems when the authorities had to find their forms. It is noted that today there is good cooperation. These are very clear assignments that lie on different instances, because there are different target groups and problem images that they need to work with in different ways. But they also work closely together. Finally, Statskontoret – and this is done on the basis of previous experience – recognises that short- to medium-term risks are seen in changing the organisation and the division of responsibilities for the four authorities' tasks. A reorganisation can lead to both reduced productivity and efficiency. There is an imminent risk that the skills built up will be lost and that the forms of collaboration will have to be rebuilt. ..................................................... Somewhere it's not just money in a budget or a mission on paper. Somewhere it is about soft matter, human capital, which has created these activities. There is no politician in this world who can take such a business, move it into a new business and believe that it can continue day two and just spin on. It will tear down, and it will change structures. I think we should consider the consequences before making that decision.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-154	Mr President, I would like to What I could understand from the speech that Annika Qarlsson made earlier, she also sees the need for coordination. At the same time, it should not be an equality authority. I do not really understand what it is that Annika Qarlsson thinks should be coordinated or how it should be coordinated. She doesn't want to answer that part. I believe that the Equality Agency is an important coordinating force. Precisely what it should look like and how it should be organized is one thing that is now being worked out. I am quite sure that we do not need to feel the concern that Annika Qarlsson wants to express here. On the contrary, I believe that there is a great deal of interest in all those who have worked for this equality authority to coordinate the various work that is going on around the country and that is good. I think maybe we can wait and see what happens. I do not believe that there is any justification for the concerns expressed by Annika.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-157	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 5 and 15. The liberal gender equality mission is about the freedom of the individual. Although Sweden has come a long way compared to other countries, there are strong traditions and structures that limit individual freedom and opportunities to participate fully in society. In today's Sweden, Mr President, there is a difference of SEK 3.6 million in living income between an average man and an average woman. Women take three times more parenting days than men. Traditionally female occupations are characterised by lower wages than traditional male occupations. Gender perceptions affect how people are treated in health care and school. Women are far more at risk of serious violence in their own home. It takes much longer for women as immigrants to Sweden to become self-sufficient and fully established in their new home country than it does for men. Liberals are based on these facts. We start from how this affects individuals. We see the structures behind, and we are working towards change. Mr President, I would like to The proposal of the gender equality inquiry to establish a gender equality authority was welcomed by the Liberals. We ourselves have pointed out the benefits for gender equality that could be achieved if, in the same way as for other key policy areas, there was an authority that acted as an expert body, with particular responsibility for monitoring and analysing developments and coordinating government work. Properly designed, a gender equality authority could help to drive gender equality work forward more effectively. But, Mr President, we have had strong objections to the way in which the government wants to design a new equality authority. Our most serious objection was directed against the Government's plans to transfer the national mission of honour-related violence and repression, which is currently at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County, to the new gender equality agency. Linking a direct operational task, such as that carried out at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland, to an authority that acts as an expert authority, would be a very unfortunate mix-up. It would harm the authority in both of these roles. There was an imminent danger that a large part of the work, skills and experience that has been built up laboriously over more than ten years would disappear, at a time when we see how important it is to combat honour-related violence and repression. That is why we in the Liberals chose to hold talks with the government to save the work against honour-related violence and repression and the experience that has been built up. It is not about saving a business in a particular location, but about saving a structure in order to be able to work effectively against honour violence – to get control stations to develop the work. Thanks to this, activities will now continue until 2020. There will then be an evaluation, and a new decision can then be taken on how the national work against honour-related violence and repression should be carried out. The new gender equality agency will also work on honorary issues, for example by inventorying research, ordering statistics and doing analyses. There must be clear wording in the instructions of the gender equality authority that ensures that the agency will build up knowledge about these issues and that this cannot be prioritised or pushed away. In the middle of p. 21 of the report we now have to consider, Mr President, this is what it says: The mission of the Gender Equality Agency should include issues of honour-related violence and repression. This should be clearly stated in the instructions. Furthermore, the mission of the Authority should include that the specific mechanisms underlying honour-related violence and repression make it necessary to make this visible and counter-productive as a particular problem. In this part, the gender equality authority should focus in particular on overall national knowledge development and strategic, cross-cutting issues so that the agency's activities and the mission carried out by the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County can complement each other in a good way. ..................................................... These have been conditions from the Liberals in order to be able to support a gender equality authority at all. The reason why this issue is so important is that we see that honour-related violence and repression exist in Sweden and are more widespread than many understand or want to understand. Many young people, especially girls, cannot live a life of freedom even though they are in Sweden, which is one of the most democratic and free countries in the world. These youths, as it often is, are controlled by their loved ones and their relatives. They are denied social intercourse and the right to the private bubble that we all need in order to develop and grow as individuals. They are often afraid and dare not argue. Sweden's largest voluntary organisation against honour violence, never forget Pela and Fadime, estimates that at least ten young women and men were honor-buttered in Sweden just last year. At least 70 000 young people in Sweden risk not being able to choose for themselves who to marry. Unfortunately, for two and a half years in government, our government has shown that this problem is not fully understood. That is why it is so vital to have clear wordings that guarantee this structure and that there is effective national work against honour-related violence and repression. I think that what we have seen in recent days clearly confirms this. In various ways, Iran's gender apartheid laws, which the mullahs have introduced, are equated with wearing hats in Sweden, for example. For us in the Liberals it is extremely important to strengthen the individualistic, secular and equal society we have in Sweden. We must at all costs counter these reactionary and patriarchal attitudes and values. They must not take root broadly in our society, because they endanger and threaten the freedom of a great many people in our country. Therefore, it is also important to counteract the cultural relativism that also exists, which means that we in Sweden can blur a little on the values of secularism, gender equality and individualism. It is not so important that we defend those values all the way. I am very worried about the development in which the established society in Sweden betrays, above all, the young girls who come from communities where honor-related violence and oppression are more widespread than here. To conclude, Mr President, there is a need for a strong strengthening of the public's efforts against honour-related violence and repression. Liberals want to see an investment of half a billion SEK over four years to strengthen the permanent work against honour-related violence and oppression. These funds represent a broad increase in ambition that will have an impact on society as a whole and which means increased protection for vulnerable people, skills investments in different sectors of society and increased support for organisations. We also want to work to tighten up legislation in this area, including what is called lex Fadime, that is to say that crimes with honor-related motives should be judged more rigorously when measuring penalties. For an exhaustive description of Liberal policy in this area, I would like to refer to our party motion. Just google: Liberals 2016/ 17:1078.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-177	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Malm points out that the Liberals have had reservations about how the government wants to establish a gender equality agency. He goes on to say that after negotiations with the government, at least the work in Östergötland against honour-related violence and oppression has now been saved. Whether it's saved or not can be discussed– you've been given a respite in a couple of years, and then we'll see what happens. I note, however, that we first had a majority in the committee who already wanted to establish today that the mandate should be permanent with those who have been working on this for years. Before a gender equality agency is fully in place, there is every opportunity to change government, as Fredrik Malm is certainly aware. My question is based on the fact that the Liberals have welcomed an authority to coordinate, evaluate and have overall responsibility. You can have different opinions about that. We have different opinions as to whether or not an authority is needed. However, the criticism of moving the work against honour-related repression there was also directed at the other activities that are transferred to the agency as it is planned at present. I do not know why they should remain longer or that the transition should take place in part. The criticism is based on an operational responsibility of the Authority. It is still the intention that the authority set up should work operationally while at the same time working on evaluation, analysis and coordination. I simply wonder what has happened to the Liberals' understanding that this is not good for an authority of this kind.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-180	Mr President, I would like to I think we're having a bit of a different discussion here. The most important thing for the Swedish Democrats is that this activity is located in a certain place. The most important thing for me is that there is an effective structure, a way of working and clear wording that means that we in Sweden work more aggressively and more developed to combat honour-related violence and repression. This would not have happened if we had not chosen to hold these talks. Now we get a guarantee of the effective structure. We get very clear wordings in the Authority's instructions. In addition, we get a control station, which means that after a few years we can evaluate this and take new steps forward for how the business will be conducted in the future. I think it's very important. I note that we may have slightly different views on this, but we and the Swedish Democrats have quite broad views on both gender equality and integration. That's the way it is.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-183	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the half answer, Fredrik Malm! What I asked for is what has happened to the insight that emerges very clearly in the follow-up motion that the Liberals raised just a few weeks ago that the gender equality authority, as an expert authority with an overall, coordinating and analytical role, should not confuse this activity with also conducting operational activities, which is, of course, what will happen with the work being carried out today in Östergötland against honour-related violence and repression and with other important bodies – we have heard NCK mentioned here. It is still a transfer of activities that will take place, and it will be an operational activity of the Authority. It is not about the place as such, but it is about the expertise and certain jobs. From experience we know that skills will disappear even by a localisation change. It will be thrown back several years in time. I wonder once again: what is one thinking about this?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-186	Mr President, I would like to I feel that the Swedish Democrats have not really read the report we are now discussing. I go back to page 21, which I also quoted in my speech. It is very clear in this section that the gender equality authority should focus in particular on overall national knowledge development and strategic, cross-cutting issues, so that the agency's activities and the mission carried out by the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County can complement each other in a good way. ..................................................... That is exactly what has been our position in the Liberals. We do not want the operational activities, which have been built up over ten years and have proved successful, and its working methods are changed and moved into an authority that has other input values in terms of working methods, namely working more analytically. It's been our concern. We believe that the solution that we have now come up with and for which there is a majority means that operational activities can remain. In a few years' time, this can be evaluated, and so we are taking new steps forward to further strengthen the fight against honour-related violence and repression.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-189	Mr President, I would like to We had until Wednesday when we adjusted this in committee, in fact, a majority for Östergötland to have a permanent and continued mission. Instead, it continued for three years. It is a pity that we could not continue to agree that it would actually be a permanent mission in the longer term. I think there is a very great risk that there will be three years and not so much more with it. It's warm and nice now, but it gets wet and cold then. The interesting thing about the texts that we received at a late stage, after the Liberals' talks with the government, is that exactly the same argumentation used for Östergötland – that you do not want to break up structures – is directly translated into both NCK and the County Administrative Board in Stockholm County or to the Social Board's mission. Then my question is: Why do you only take a few? It's just as bad for the others as it is for Östergötland. Why do you not see the same at NCK, on the assignment that the County Administrative Board in Stockholm has when it comes to trafficking and prostitution or on behalf of the National Board of Health and Welfare, for that matter?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-192	Mr President, I would like to What is important to us in the Liberals is that we have a working method to combat honour-related violence and repression, that we have a national mission, that we understand how important these issues are, that we invest more in this and so on. We have been concerned that the effective and successful way of working that has been built up for ten years at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County will now be lost. A gender equality authority should be an expert authority more focused on analysis, statistics, research and so on. That is why it has been very important for us – it has been our central starting value – that this work, the way of working and the effective structure to combat, nationally, the honour-related violence and repression should remain and also be strengthened. This does not necessarily mean that the work will be carried out precisely on a unit at the Länsstyrelsen in Östergötland until the sun goes out. The work can take other forms in the future; the central thing is the content, that there is a structure and that there is effective work for this. We believe that with the wording now contained in the report that the gender equality authority should focus in particular on knowledge development, the activities in Östergötland are complementary. It should be clearly stated in the instruction that honor-related violence and oppression is something to focus on. This means that we also guarantee the effective structure. This will then be assessed in the future, and new steps are being taken.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-195	Mr President, I would like to Then perhaps we who remain at the reservation after all are a little more optimistic, because we do not think that the sun will go out by 2020. In fact, we have been thinking that in Östergötland we should have a little longer time. I think the argument is limping. The alternative would have been to give them a permanent mission – not for time and eternity, but a permanent mission to develop their methods. I am still confused: Do the Liberals ignore all other violence against women, i.e. what NCK works with or prostitution and trafficking that the Stockholm County Administrative Board works with? It is also there the working methods and methods. They have different activities that together develop. They've come a long way. They have even more to do. But we can remove them. Only Östergötland can continue for three more years. Just the argument that you are reading, Fredrik Malm, would have applied to the others as well. What you're describing is that with what the government does, they break structures. You risk losing years, losing skills and losing working methods. It will ultimately affect women who are victims of violence. But that doesn't bother the Liberals. That will be my conclusion. I hope it's not correct.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-200	Mr President, I would like to Of course we do not ignore the issue of violence against women. It seems quite preposterous to blame someone for it or to suggest something like that in the Riksdag. These are extremely important issues. We are concerned about several parts of the construction around the new authority. We will have to follow this closely. We also have specific opinions on this point. But the central issue is the way in which honour-related violence and repression are handled. It is important that it can continue, that Sweden has an effective structure and that it can develop and that the operations in Östergötland and what has been built up there now also remain.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-202	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 7 and 16, so that it is clear. Then I would like to get to grips with the report, which contains many important issues. It is about the direction and goal of gender equality policy, the governance of gender equality work and how the work to prevent violence in close relationships and violence against women should be carried out. The Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Left Party and the Liberals have made arrangements to establish a gender equality authority. They want better governance of gender equality policies, they say. At the same time, however, as we have heard before, the good work that exists in the country is being broken up by various entities that are working to reduce men's violence against women in various forms. This is being done to finance the new authority. Mr President, I would like to It is not a well thought-out proposal. Several heavy referrals are critical. Statskontoret, for example, says in its referral that the proposal is not sufficiently substantiated and that the Government has not investigated alternatives and has not highlighted the disadvantages associated with the proposal. And it is believed that combining an evaluation and a promotion mission in the same authority is a problem from a quality and credibility perspective. Concrete activities such as NCK, the National Centre for Women's Peace, in Uppsala and the county boards in Östergötland and in Stockholm are currently making efforts that I think it will be extremely difficult to manage at an authority. They have support phones. They have clinical research, especially on rapes in Uppsala. They have support for victims and so on. How will this be done in an authority? Now, in an agreement with the Liberals, the government has decided that Östergötland's operations will continue for a few more years. But, as previously discussed and as Annika Qarlsson mentioned, it would have been much better if the Liberals had supported the rest of the Alliance and also joined, as I have understood it by the Swedish Democrats, to what means that they would in fact permanently retain the County Administrative Board in Östergötland's work against honorary violence. Now it has been saved temporarily, but we could have saved it for a long time to come. Several different consultation bodies and investigations talk about alternatives to this authority. It is not that there are no alternatives and possible solutions that can become more operational. I am afraid that we are now seeing a decline in gender equality. We are destroying functioning businesses that have taken a long time to build up. NCK has worked for 20 years and got a well-functioning operation. Now we are talking about an authority dealing with structures and policies more than a reality-based development. It'll be the office trail, so to speak. For me, feminism stands for activism and action. Unfortunately, there will be less concrete activities to support women in vulnerable situations. That is regrettable, Mr President. The Swedish National Audit Office, another consultation body, advises the Government to give priority to existing resources in existing administrative structures. Sweden's municipalities and the Swedish Financial Control Agency have objections from a cost perspective. For the Swedish Financial Control Agency, a new authority represents a clearly more expensive option for the task than the one we could arrange. The Swedish National Audit Office as well as Statskontoret believe that the collaboration and knowledge collection that the agency would entail can very well be developed based on existing structures. The Swedish National Audit Office also believes that there are no impact assessments for the proposal for a new authority. Several consultation bodies also point out that the transfer of the County Administrative Board of Östergötland's data risks affecting developments in the field of subject matter – it is therefore a matter of honour violence. It is going to be a decline, and it is breaking up functioning activities. Synergies are lost, and work is disadvantaged. The fact that the business works operationally with a telephone line can become an odd feature of an authority that otherwise will work with investigation and analysis. That's what the National Board of Health and Welfare and Statskontoret say. The Government's letter does not draw a picture where the issue of honour is a significant part of the work of the gender equality authority. It is a shortcoming, because honor-related violence and oppression are a problem of our own to carry out development work around. All in all, Mr President, the reasons for the rejection of the government's proposal to create a new equality authority are the heavy consultation bodies and our own image. The activities in Östergötland, Uppsala and Stockholm that I have mentioned should remain. Mr President, I would like to In addition to what was proposed in the investigation, the county administrative board of Stockholm's work against trafficking in human beings, the mission of one of the authorities dealing with grants to women, Uppsala University's work against violence against women and the University of Gothenburg's work on gender research. The question then is: can it be concluded that there will be the same risks with all these activities to be transferred to the Authority? I believe that we are going to have a powerful pace of competence and that we are going to lose priorities as a consequence of this decision. There is, Mr President, a need for continuous monitoring and analysis and coordination and support for gender equality policies in various areas. But we from the Christian Democrats draw a different conclusion from the government on how to do it. In order to better evaluate gender equality policy efforts, other authorities with competence in the field of gender equality should instead be used. Statskontoret's report A more effective gender equality policy recommends the establishment of a delegation for gender equality studies, which is also responsible for initiating research on gender equality. Statskontoret recommends that evaluation assignments be placed on operational evaluation agencies such as the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation, IFAU, or Care Analysis. Then, of course, it is the government that has a responsibility to coordinate and evaluate gender equality policies. We therefore have in our motion a motion for the government to test that idea instead of the authority that is now being set up. It would then be possible to retain the operational activities, which the government now intends to break down. In our view, Christian Democrats, it is important that the overall objective of gender equality policy remains. The goal is expressed as that women and men should have the same power to shape society and their own lives. The Christian Democrats believe that the basis for equality between women and men is the equal, absolute and inviolable value of all people. Women and men must have a level playing field in order to develop their full potential. Gender equality is that people, regardless of gender, have the power to shape their lives according to their own wishes. It is an important task to eliminate traditional notions, prejudices, structures and legal obstacles that undermine and prevent equality between men and women. This applies to family life, working life and other social life. It is not just about legislation, but also about opinion formation and change of attitude. The gender perspective should, of course, permeate all policy areas, which means that proposals and decisions should be analysed from the perspective of gender equality in order to clarify possible consequences for women and men. This is something that we set out in the Christian Democrats' programme of principles and which I think is important to emphasise. The sub-goal men's violence against women includes all manifestations of violence, physically or mentally, towards girls and women performed by men. The sub-goal also covers honour-related violence and repression, as well as prostitution and trafficking in people for sexual purposes. Violence against children and violence in same-sex relationships are closely linked to the sub-goal but are not covered by the proposal, which is highlighted and criticised by several consultation bodies. The Christian Democrats agree with the criticism and point out that violence in same-sex relationships is also characterised by mechanisms that exist in different sex relationships. Like the National Board of Health and Welfare, we would like to stress the risk that the proposed objective will make violence in same-sex relationships and violence against men and boys invisible. Crime Prevention Council surveys show that the proportion of women and men exposed to violence by a current or former partner is about the same, but violence against women is more severe and recurrent. The concept of men's violence against women should always be supplemented by the concept In our view, there is far too little room for honour-related violence and repression in the government's letter, despite the fact that the work being done today is heavily influenced by the government's proposals. That is why it should have been raised to a much greater extent than it is today. The government also writes about the lack of regular investigations into the extent of honour-related violence and repression, and we believe that the Crime Prevention Council should be given a mandate to do larger and recurring surveys like the one done in 2009. When we come to the issue of unpaid home and care work, the Christian Democrats believe that there can be too much focus on quotas as the only solution. We believe that families and couples choose to share responsibility for their homes and children, and that, of course, affects everyone's life situation and the position on the labour market, especially for women. Traditionally, women have taken greater responsibility at home, and the effect has been that women have been away more from work, slipped behind in wage developments and thus also received lower pensions. However, we do not believe in restricting the choice of families and disparaging the choices of the people of the age. Instead, the Christian Democrats' solution is to remove obstacles and create the conditions for different choices for both mothers and fathers. We also welcome the new sub-target on equal health. One of the most important principles of Swedish healthcare is to have care on equal terms. The Christian Democrats believe that it should be an increased state responsibility, especially in hospital care, and we believe that this would also contribute to more equal health. In conclusion, governance at regional level has not been discussed very much. However, in the government's assessment of governance at regional level, responsibility for the internal organisation of the authorities is delegated to the authority itself. This means that county boards are no longer required to have a special expert in gender equality. Positive consultation bodies believe that this is compensated by the creation of a new equality authority. Rather, we think it is a problem. After all, what previous investigations have shown is that regional work is working better and that cooperation has improved, thanks much to the resources and missions that the alliance government contributed. All in all, Mr President, we reject several of the Government's proposals and call for reservations 7 and 16 to be accepted.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-231	Mr President, I would like to In 1922, the first five women were elected to the Riksdag after many courageous women and even some men had worked very hard to achieve this goal. Many were probably reminded of the struggle in connection with the Miss Friman War television series and that there was a great resistance to women having the opportunity to enter the corridors of power or to have their own livelihood, especially among bourgeois representatives. Just as then, it is the Social Democrats and Liberals who are driving the women's struggle and the hard work of gender equality while the bourgeoisie, together with its new SD comrades, continues to say no when political gender equality decisions are to be taken in the right direction. However, they were not ashamed to get past and stand primarily to show themselves on the picture that would be taken of all women in the First Chamber to document and show that there is a difference between the past and the present. In the old black-and-white picture, it is only men, while in today's colourful picture there are many women MPs in the same room, even though their parties did not work for the good result. The picture was still very nice. Mr President, I would like to Today, the debate is about gender equality policy and the report of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs entitled Power, objectives and authority – feminist policy for an equal future. The government's letter spans many policy areas and will certainly be debated within more committees. Four milestones remain: power and influence; economic equality; unpaid domestic and care work; and men's violence against women to cease. Two new sub-objectives are included: equal education and health. On 14 December, the Government decided on a new gender equality agency to be located in Gothenburg. Until the Authority is in place on 1 January 2018, an investigator has been tasked with proposing and taking the necessary measures to enable the Authority to start operations and to avoid losing competence, experience and more. The Swedish National Audit Office's criticism of the previous government's gender equality efforts was that one could not see or measure what was the result of the initiatives and what benefit they gave. The agency for gender equality policy is becoming more effective and has a stronger impact and improved cohesion. It will also establish and coordinate certain mandates in the field of gender equality policy in order to achieve the objectives of gender equality policy. Mr President, I would like to When I was a child, I don't remember seeing a single female police officer, a female doctor or a female bus driver. They certainly existed, but it was not so common because these were typical male-dominated professions that were probably not considered suitable for women. Fortunately, times have changed. Today it is not at all unusual to see female police officers, female doctors and female bus drivers. A great deal has happened in the labour market, although women are more likely to break standards than men. But it may be more because of wages and working conditions than the professional choices of men. Yet today we see male nurses, male preschool teachers and male care staff in home care. The pay gap between women and men is 12.5 percent full-time. We know that not everyone is working full-time, so the pay gap is even bigger. The women's lobby last week performed a manifestation, Time for pay all day! ................................................................. Of course, things have moved forward. The pay gap started to be measured five years ago. That's when women got paid to be at the clock. 15.51. In five years, women have been paid for another nine minutes, so now women have paid to the clock. 4 p.m. Women still work for free for an hour every day, and the men are still paid for the whole day, at. 8 – 17. It's going too slow. If it continues at this rate, it will take another 33 years until women are paid for the whole day. Then we have come to 2050, and then we know that there are quite a lot of people in here who have finished their working life. Women and men must have the same power to influence their lives and our society, to be able to make the life choices and career choices that they want, not what women and men have always done. Mr President, I would like to When I read the Swedish Democrats' motion 3553, I wonder what they mean. They write that child care is trying to experiment with and control or change our children's behavior patterns, where teachers and other educators monitor children's behaviour and then steer their choices in a normative direction and problematize any gender normative expression, and that Swedish schools engage in social sex experiments. The Swedish Democrats also write that the government decides which games children should play on breaks, which paint colors school children should be allowed to use and that boys should not be allowed to play with the color blue and that they should be forced to jump rope. Mr President, I would like to I can tell you that it's fun as well as smart, fun and useful to jump rope for both girls and boys, because you train your motor skills very well with it. It feels like SD doesn't really know or understand what teachers and educators do with their gender knowledge at school or preschool. They ridicule the competence of teachers, preschool teachers and other educators. Two weeks ago I was in Borås and looked at different preschools with a little different orientations. There it became very clear that you give girls and boys more opportunities to play and learn with everything based on their awareness, regardless of gender. Just as an example from preschool it is not called the doll's corner anymore, but now it is called the apartment or home. Everyone wants to be there, and it's also okay that everyone's there. The staff are more aware that we adults do not always treat girls and boys in the same way. To consciously work with gender knowledge is good for everyone, because then the whole world will open up to the children, regardless of gender, and not just, as before, half the world. With only small changes, regardless of what color you want to paint or what games you want to play, we give opportunities for both girls and boys to develop much more and get a bigger share of everything that can be done. I would add that the staff there were incredibly grateful for the extra state subsidies they had received for the reduction of children's groups, which was also good for the children and especially positive for the working environment and for the sickness rates, which had decreased. Mr President, I would like to Many women live under oppression, threats and violence, usually by a close relative. Children are forced into marriage, and young women are married off against their will. This must stop. It's illegal and criminal. We need to stop it. Many do not dare to report, and many feel that they do not have the choice to leave. To prevent, knowledge must be present in all those who are expected to meet the exposed woman or girl, so that she gets the right help right away. There is a need for more knowledge of this. It will now be included in all relevant training courses for the professions where these vulnerable women are met, which we welcome. And the men who expose women and girls must take responsibility for the negative and criminal acts they actually carry out. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats want women and men to have the same power and influence and the same right to their own livelihoods and more. Girls and boys should have good opportunities to make their choices for the future based on who they are, not on their gender. If that is to be possible, we must have a good equality policy. We therefore welcome the government's letter Power, goal and authority – feminist policy for an equal future. We go from just talking to executing things, while the government makes important investments that make a difference. There will be more money for welfare, a good preschool and childcare, increased resources for elderly care, investments in the working environment, improved working conditions and pay surveys every year and in more companies. Women should be treated in the same way as men in the start-up phase. Full time becomes the norm in SKL's contract area, money is allocated to women's shelters, boys' education we highlight, an additional month reserved for parental insurance and more. Mr President, I would like to As in Miss Friman's day, it takes courage and action even today to change if we want women and men and girls and boys to have the same opportunities and rights. This calls for the equality policy that we Social Democrats dare and want to decide on. I therefore support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-255	Mr President, I would like to As a Swedish democrat, I have a lot to say in my speech. I note that it was a rather interesting start to highlight pictures from the government these days as some sort of sign of what is equal and not. It is highly provocative to equate a struggle for freedoms, the same opportunities and a legal view of men and women as equally competent with the same rights to the various institutions of society with the fact that one stands for quotas and wants to enable individuals today to be judged by gender in different parts of society. They want to support all forms of gender education, not only in those parts where there is an increased awareness that boys and girls are to some extent treated differently and have different opportunities to take advantage of themselves, but they want to actively go in and pick and control what different rooms should be called and how much children should play different types of games. If someone makes a fool of gender education, it is these gender educators themselves. It is these kinds of gender pedagogy that ridicule the important work of enabling and ensuring that children are seen as individuals and with all sorts of interests that they may have, which is also reflected in the broader policy. Here there is positive discrimination between adults, who are no longer seen as individuals of their own who are to be judged on the basis of their skills, but on the basis of what they have between their legs.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-259	Mr President, I would like to Where do I start? For example, controlling certain things is about what the government has proposed that we should have greater opportunities in terms of both one and the other. This affects the choice of women, men, girls and boys. As I said in my speech, when I was a child, there were not many female police officers and female bus drivers. It was not because there were women who wanted to drive buses or become policemen, but because, in the view of those days, it was not suitable occupations for women. Today, girls and boys have completely different opportunities if we actually give them that. Sometimes I go with small children to the exciting Navet in Borås. There you can discover technology and such, and over the years I have heard how the children have developed their ideas and thoughts about what they want to become when they become big. Sometimes they want to be electricians, sometimes preschool teachers and sometimes bus drivers. Then it's great to be able to say that they can choose what they want if we continue to develop this opportunity for girls and boys. We stand up for that, because we want girls and boys to have this opportunity. Many women and men living today have not had this opportunity, and so we are heading in that direction.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-263	Madam President, I would like I am not opposed to this. I myself pointed out that thankfully we have left the time when it was limited what one could become and there were no pioneers to look up to. When I was a kid, I had every opportunity. I never thought that I would be restricted by my gender. I have studied mathematics and am active in defense, but I have also been active in more traditional female fields. These opportunities exist today. What I object to is that you take as a starting point that a certain distribution is the most optimal and that you want to continue to actively control how children play, who are admitted to education and how many are in which positions in society, whether it be down with the workers or on the board. I think we are going far too far here. You go back to a vision where it is the gender that determines where we should be in society, not what interests we have or what kinds of circumstances we choose to develop and engage in. I am concerned that the Social Democrats and Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg cannot see the difference between these two things. It is about ensuring the opening of the roads that were previously closed versus continuing to govern and saying exactly how men and women are to distribute themselves. You want girls to play less with dolls and more with cars. That kind of activity exists. For example, there are places where you go in and control and remove certain toys because they are sex bound. You also continue to support active quotas. Call it positive action or whatever you want, but it is active quota. It is about looking at the gender of an adult or a child, and on that basis deciding what he or she should do. I will never accept that.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-270	Madam President, I would like Paula Bieler expresses herself as saying that we would stand for something quite different. We have never said that it must be 50 - 50 to play with dolls or cars at preschool or to paint with blue or jump rope. We don't run that from here, and I think Paula Bieler knows that. In your exercise, you rumble over boys not being allowed to paint with blue and forced to jump rope. I wonder which preschool has it that way. In gymnastics, however, you may need to jump rope because it is good training, but then it applies to everyone. Many in this House have probably had to jump rope in their gym classes. Some did better and others did worse, but it's good to be able to. Of course, we are not saying that this can only be done by girls, and this can only be done by boys, but by opening up. So we do not rule with the touchsticks that you write about in your reservation. We govern so that women, men, girls and boys can have the whole world as an opportunity and be able to influence their lives based on their own opportunity and will, not on the basis of their gender.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-273	Madam President, I would like With all due respect for important questions about paint in preschool, but should we have this discussion when several parties have asked what will happen with the operational work at NCK in Uppsala, with the work against honour violence in Östergötland and with the work against human trafficking and prostitution in the Stockholm County Administrative Board? Women are currently receiving help and support in these activities, but now we see that they are at risk of being broken. Statskontoret recently said on the committee that it can be expected that it will take at least seven years to build something that has been broken. We have built up NCK, the National Centre for Women's Peace, for 20 years. Can the Social Democrats respond to what is to happen? That is what our reservations are about. I assume that the Social Democrats will try to respond to the reservations in their speech. What does Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg think should happen to these activities? Will operational work survive? Can Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg and the majority in committee, who have taken this decision, promise that everything will continue as before and that all women who have been helped and supported in these activities will continue to receive it?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-276	Madam President, I would like Let me repeat to Mrs Pethrus what I said in my speech: Until the agency is in place on 1 January 2018, an investigator has the task of proposing and taking the necessary measures to enable the agency to start operations and not to lose competence, experience and more. This includes all the good activities carried out, and those mentioned by Mrs Pethrus are good examples of good operational activities. We will ensure that we do not lose that competence but take advantage of the knowledge and more available. As regards the operation in Östergötland, there is a majority decision that it should remain in place by 2020. Then it'll be investigated, and then we'll see what it'll be like. So it is not yet said that there will be nothing left. Times have to change. It cannot continue to be as it has always been. We need to look ahead. There were, of course, criticisms of the fact that there was no good cohesion and that one could not see what the previous government's gender equality policy was doing. Now let's try something new, which several instances have lifted up is good. But we are going to make use of the skills and knowledge that exist in the places Désirée Pethrus mentioned.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-281	Madam President, I would like I do not understand how to take money from these activities and put it into the new authority without destroying these activities. It doesn't make any sense to me. Should we just say, yes, wait for an investigator to come up with a proposal and hope that it will be reasonably good? It is very difficult to make such a decision in the Riksdag with seriosity. That times change, I really agree. I thought those times were over when it was thought that an authority would solve all the problems ahead. A new authority may be an answer, but in this question several different consultation bodies show options where operational work can be combined with other types of support functions and where the government has the ultimate responsibility to coordinate and ensure that the work progresses. I find the development very boring. I received an email the other day from NCK, National Centre for Women's Peace. They wrote that they had a big introduction day where they talked about violence against women. There were 250 participants from all over the country – social services, health care, church, justice and idea-based organisations. They described that they have a support phone that receives 86 calls every day. A total of 31,273 talks were held in 2016 in which authorities and individuals have been able to help different people who have been victims of violence in close relationships or other violence. Ann-Christin-Christin Ahlberg! Will they be allowed to continue? Will the support phone and these training courses remain? That's my question.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-288	Madam President, I would like Exactly what it will look like, I dare not say at present, Désirée Pethrus. Based on the fact that the government has appointed the investigator who is working on this, I only know that if it is something that the government really cares about, it is taking advantage of all the expertise and knowledge that exists about women's violence and about the women and girls who are exposed in many different ways. It will not perish in any way. If it will literally remain as it is today, we will see, but I am absolutely convinced that the skills and what has been good will not be dropped. Now we are taking a new approach with the new authority. It is very important to push forward the work on gender equality, but above all to make gender equality policy a reality. You had the opportunity for eight years to permanence many of the things that you yourself raise, Désirée Pethrus, but you did not. Now we are making sure that they are permanent and that the authority is given responsibility for things that you have previously had temporarily. We are talking about the fact that we are really standing up for us to continue with good examples, especially those operational activities that have been good. So wise is our government that it will ensure that what is good remains and what is less good develops. If it is in exactly the places where the activities are physically today, we will see. They will actually serve the whole country, because we have women who are subjected to violence throughout Sweden. They must be there for them too. Now there has been a national mission, and now it is likely to be a new authority.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-294	Madam President, I would like The world's first feminist government has presented a new gender equality policy to Sweden. At a time when women's right to decide over their own body is limited and challenged in country after country, Sweden stands for leadership in gender equality issues, globally and nationally, by acting and being an example. When women in Russia can in practice legally be subjected to violence by their husbands in their home, the Swedish feminist government presents a national ten-year strategy against men's violence against women. These are questions that are bigger than squabbling about which place in the country is responsible for that or that telephone line. This is a big one, Madam President. The new gender equality policy is about Sweden's objectives for gender equality in our country. For ten years we have had a consensus in Parliament that women and men should have the same right to shape society and their own lives. Being a feminist is about seeing that it's not like that. People are not just individuals who are judged equally, but we have an inequality where women and men today do not have the same right to shape society and their own lives. Being a feminist also means a will and a willingness to do something about it. I believe that the basic dividing line is in this House. We see how the Moderates hook arms with the Swedish Democrats in their opposition to achieving an effective gender equality policy. Although all parties say that they want gender equality and that they support the overall goal, today the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats say no to the toolbox that investigations and organisations have asked for year after year, namely a collective national responsibility for gender equality policy. This is what a gender equality authority is all about. It is a question of having a body responsible for evaluating what works and what does not work. To be honest, how good are governments at being honest about their own success? Every government will say: What we did worked well. But an independent body can look at it objectively and measure and count. Such a body can also remedy the failure of project work. Because it is true, as the Moderates' representatives have said in the debate: the Alliance government invested a lot of money in gender equality. The problem, Madam President, is that there was not so much equality for money. That is where we see that we need to fix the structure itself. Many good projects did not spread, did not become long-term and did not lead to us approaching our own goals on gender equality. Dissemination in different parts of the country, however good they are, has not led us to achieve our goals of gender equality. On some points, such as the issue of wages and economic equality, progress is slow. The government's policy has actually gone a little faster in the past year. However, as many have pointed out, when men's violence against women comes to an end, there is no progress. In some parts it even looks like going backwards. This is very serious, especially in the light of the fact that the Alliance Government invested a great deal in this particular work. Then we have to change something fundamentally. The structure is part of it. Then, Madam President, it is also about legislation, when it comes to violence. What is criminal and not criminal? There is still a lot to be done here in the area of gender equality. In Sweden today it is still not criminal to have sex with a person who does not participate voluntarily. It's not rape today. You may be fined for sexual harassment, that is to say, the same crime as if you appear naked to someone who does not want to see you. This is a structural problem because we have a patriarchal history where women's right to their own body is still not self-evident. Today we have talked a lot about honour-related violence. There, too, further action is needed. I fully agree with the representatives of the Liberals that crimes committed with honorary motives must be judged more rigorously. I fully agree that we need to have a sharp vision and not accept that girls are married to grown men. It has to stop. Thankfully, Madam President, we have a government that is acting and that will set up investigations to change the legislation. Madam President, I would like There will be new targets. We have four objectives that have been set out today. There will be a new objective of equal health and a new objective of equal education. I was going to say a few extra words about equal education. I believe that this is one of the most important areas to work with in order to achieve equality. Sweden still has one of the world's most segregated labour markets, where we have many professions that are strongly dominated by women and many professions that are strongly dominated by men. This is basically a problem for society, because we have too few construction workers and too few preschool teachers. These are professions that simply ignore half the population in the selection process. But it is also important to work with the question of, for example, study choices for individual freedom. There's a reason we're talking about who's painting with blue and who's painting with pink. But equal education is about all children, whether they are boys or girls, being served a palette with all the colors of the rainbow so that they can develop their creativity and abilities in order to contribute to our common society in the best possible way. This is how we build Sweden strong. Madam President, I would like I am particularly pleased with a sentence in this letter, Power, case and authority. This is where the government writes that it intends to develop an action plan for equal pay. Several speakers have explained the staggering amounts of inequality for the economy of individual women. We now see the number of poor pensioners – often women. We see, as I said, a slight trend towards equal pay that is moving a little faster thanks to several measures that have been taken, such as annual wage surveys. In this context, however, more action is needed. We cannot accept the persistence of this inequality. Nor can we accept the slow reduction in these pay differentials. It is fundamentally unacceptable that we have these structural wage differentials, and we must act in this regard. It is about the need to take action against discrimination, where women and men in the same workplace receive different salaries. It is also a question of taking a greater grasp of the structural difference in how we value the work of men and women. A recent report shows that women's dominated professions are less valued. These are professions where people work. We therefore generally value the professions in which people work less than those in which they work. This is serious from many perspectives. That is why I am so pleased that the government now intends to adopt an action plan with further measures in this area. Madam President, I would like There is much to be highlighted in this fantastic letter. I strongly recommend that anyone who wants to understand what gender equality policy has looked like, and of course what it will look like in the future, reads the letter Power, goal and authority. I hope that we will continue to discuss these issues in all future debates on important gender issues – preschool, school, crime, housing, social services and more. This is about society as a whole. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-318	Madam President, I would like I thank Annika Hirvonen Falk for an interesting speech. It is good that the government wants to take a strong stance on sex crime legislation and that it finally wants to legislate against all forms of child marriage, regardless of when they have come to be and where they have come to be. We were already alone two years ago in expressing our reservations about the fact that the legislation that then came into force did not go far enough. Quite early in her speech, Annika Hirvonen Falk spoke about the authority. She argued that, together with the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats, we are opposed to co-organising the important work on gender equality and are opposed to organising a good structure to review all the measures that exist. She was talking about a toolbox that we want to throw away or ignore. But we don't want to throw away the toolbox as such. On the other hand, we may want to replace some of the tools and not use a hammer of gold but one of iron, which is both cheaper and more efficient. My question is simply why the government believes that a new authority is the best and only way to effectively coordinate the gender equality activities that are taking place in our country, when there are clear and strong indications that this is not the case at all. Statskontoret, which has carried out a comprehensive study of how gender equality work is best carried out and which has experience of how it has previously changed government work, notes that the only thing that this actually means is that there is a risk of existing work being broken down, that it is postponed several years ago and needs to rebuild activities completely and that coordination could just as well have taken place within the framework of one of the agencies that already exists today.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-321	Madam President, I would like I have great respect for Statskontoret. But the fact is that Statskontoret cannot point to a single time that a single country has managed to achieve gender equality by incorporating this work into everything else without someone having a clear leadership responsibility. It is important that everyone works with gender equality. But if it is just to be pampered in here and there, this work will not have the basic system-changing impact that the feminist government wants. Previously it was referred to the Swedish Financial Control Agency and that in their referral they have said that it is clearly more expensive and that it is therefore better with existing structures. Then I can't help but smile a little. It is the existing patriarchal structures in society that we must remove. The existing structures have not succeeded in doing so. Those who have gone into this, not with a cost perspective but with a gender perspective, have seen that what is needed for gender equality policy to have an impact is a new authority that has responsibility for gender issues and not for a lot of other things in the first place. It shall be national and shall bring together the responsibility for gender equality policy. That is what is needed if we are to achieve equality.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-326	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Hirvonen Falk, for the attempt to answer! You can play a little bit with words and talk about different forms of structures, but it also pays to listen to the concrete question. Again, neither I nor anyone else has questioned the need for a collective responsibility and that it would be beneficial. What we are questioning is whether we really need a completely new authority for this. Instead, perhaps one should place the whole thing, for example, in the hands of one of those who, today in an exemplary way, are responsible for this within their responsibilities. To say that nothing has been achieved with existing structures, I see as a slap in the face of many of the good activities that exist around the country today. Annika Hirvonen Falk points out that nowhere has it been demonstrated that an equal society has been achieved without a gender equality authority or equivalent. No, but it has not been achieved with one either. Sweden is usually among the most equal countries in the world without a gender equality authority. I do not believe that the symbolism that it will ultimately be about with a specific single authority is what is needed. It is the content and the actual activity that are important. As I said, coordination can be achieved without an authority of its own. Responsibility can also be obtained without a completely new authority. It is about distributing the function and placing it somewhere. But with the government's proposal, it is not only this function that you are looking for, but you should move on to existing activities and break down things that have been built up for a long time. It is now being said that what we have today has not gone very far. My question remains, quite simply: why does the government believe that a new authority is the way that would best lead us somewhere where we are not on the right track today?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-331	Madam President, I would like Because the studies that have assessed the issue say that this is what is needed and because the organisations working for an equal society are asking for this very thing. Those who are experts in gender equality work see that this is needed: a national collective responsibility in the form of an authority. To be honest, I have not heard at all that the opposition wants to collect responsibility. I have heard that they want to retain the fragmented responsibility of various authorities that they have had the opportunity for eight years to permanent but not permanent. So it's been temporary. No, Madam President, I am not saying that things have not been achieved. Of course you've helped people. The County Administrative Board in Östergötland has made fantastic efforts to counteract the cultural relativism that has been present in everything from teachers to municipal politicians. There we see that these values should be safeguarded in this process. But, Madam President, what has not been achieved is to ensure that men's violence against women ends. Progress is going in the wrong direction. The existing structures are not enough. Something stronger is needed.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-335	Madam President, I would like It was interesting to hear this line. What surprises me very much is how strong the Green Party trusts an authority. One might almost think that the Green Party has become socialist; it might as well be a left-wing party that stood here and spoke. The problem is that the Green Party speaks a little against itself. Organisational problems do not lie in the activities. They are located in the Government Office, which has not managed to coordinate this properly. We believe that the killing should be done better and that it should be done centrally. But now Mi Ljöpartiet is choosing to crush various well-functioning activities to finance a new authority that is believed to do wonders. I do not believe that the new authority will do wonders. The expertise that has been built up in Uppsala, Östergötland and Stockholm will simply not move with, unless the Green Party has become a forced party that will force people to move to another city, in this case Gothenburg. With regard to the issue of the support phone, I wonder what it will be like for those who call the support phone to be confidential if this is to be in an authority. The very basis today – that this is in Uppsala under the county council and is funded by the state – is that the health care system has a special confidentiality. How does the Green Party believe that this issue will be resolved if the activities are moved to Gothenburg and the new gender equality agency? And how can the Green Party guarantee that competence will not be lost?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-339	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would like to correct a misconception that has been repeated in the debate many times. The support phone is one of the activities that the investigator is going to consider whether or not it should remain in place precisely because it is a rather special activity. Furthermore, if it is moved, there is every possibility of changing the regulation of confidentiality if that is what it depends on. Madam President, I would like The Moderates do not want to address the problems of today's lack of structures. The Moderates talk about the drawbacks of making changes. At the same time, they choose to risk that we do not achieve the gender equality policy objectives. In fact, the government has given a commission to an investigator to present how to make a strengthened organization and preserve what is good and important in the form of existing expertise and more. Madam President, I would like Erik Andersson said that what has failed is the governance of the Government Office. In a way, I am inclined to agree, because fifteen – or how many – officials in the Equality Unit are insufficient to achieve the ambitious but simple goals that we have, namely an equal society.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-342	Madam President, I would like I did not get much wiser after this speech. Nor did I get a full answer to the question I asked about the support phone and ensuring that the skills remain in this important activity. It is precisely the competence that is at the heart of it, and it cannot be worked out in a day. It takes 20 years to acquire the same skills that exist today in the activities. When it comes to the support phone, the Green Party says that consideration should be given. That is what the directives say for the new authority. But there's nothing to consider, is there? I guess it's just keeping the support phone. It does not even need to be in the comitology directives to consider whether or not to move it. I guess it's just to keep it. It would be good if you could come up with an answer to whether it might still be there, Annika Hirvonen Falk. Another key issue is the competence and that it does not disappear. I can't understand how the Green Party thinks. Normally this is a party that believes in the local community and the small person. Gender equality policy should be conducted in many ways locally with resources from above that show research and development how to work forward. But now the Green Party is in favour of a super-authority that is believed to solve the whole gender equality policy. I do not believe that, Madam President.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-345	Madam President, I would like I believe in local communities. I believe in associations' ability to come up with fantastic gender equality projects, and so have they. But it is not they who are the force that can spread this and implement it throughout all the country's activities. That is where national governance is needed. Madam President, I would like When an investigation has been commissioned to consider something, for example with regard to the support phone, it is responsible not to anticipate and say: We already know how we want to do whatever the expert says. Instead, it is now up to the investigator to make a proposal on the support phone. Madam President, I would like Actually, I wonder why it is relevant for the Moderates to engage in the gender equality debate. Progressive proposals come from the Left, the Liberals, the Green Party and the Social Democrats and others, but the Moderates are always against these proposals. This has been the case since 1919, when the Moderates voted against women's voting rights, and it continues during this term of office. Now, among other things, the third month of fatherhood and the abolition of the custody allowance have been voted down. I am thinking, however, that it may not do much, Madam President, because in the end the Moderates have accepted and supported fundamental principles, such as women's right to abortion. I am therefore not particularly concerned that the Moderates are against, at least as long as they do not start negotiating gender equality policy with the Swedish Democrats.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-349	Madam President, I would like Soon I will have the privilege of leading the Swedish delegation to the Women's Commission at the UN in New York. This year's theme is economic independence. I have had the opportunity to participate there perhaps as many as 15 times over the years. Unfortunately, it happens that women like me meet where one year is not there the following year. This is sometimes because they are in prison, that they have been threatened or – at worst – that they have been injured or murdered for their involvement. It is dangerous to be a legal expert on women in many countries today. Their struggle for equality is linked to our struggle in Sweden. To question power relations and demand justice based on gender has always been associated with a price – sometimes with serious consequences for freedom and life, sometimes at the cost of ridicule and reduction. Yet we must fight on and move forward. There are many of us who are looking with concern at what is happening in the world today, as we have also heard in this House. The global agenda does not necessarily have sexual and reproductive rights and gender equality at the top right now. The rights of girls, women and LGBT people in particular are being questioned. Through our international networks and Sweden's assistance, we strengthen courageous women's rights activists and men who fight for gender equality. It is the right thing to do, but it is also about us sharing this world. What we do in Sweden is of great importance to us who live and live here, but it is also of great importance outside our borders. Those of us who are able to pursue these issues have a particular responsibility to advance their positions. The Swedish feminist government takes this responsibility. Today, we are going to talk, above all, about national equality policy. Madam President, I would like Gender equality is achieved through political will and decisions. It is achieved by a desire to change and improve people's everyday lives and lives. I represent the world's first feminist government. We want to see an equal society, both because this is right and because gender equality leads to economic growth and to a more equal society. Gender equality is a freedom project for both women and men. The letter on equality policy that we are building on here today sets out two new sub-objectives, which we have heard earlier in the debate: equal education and health. We maintain the overall goal of women and men having the same power to shape society and their own lives as well as the previous four milestones. I am pleased that we seem to have a relatively large consensus on these milestones, because they are the ones that govern equality policy and because they are the ones that we measure results against. The involvement and contribution of both men and women to gender equality policy is an important starting point for the government. A gender equality authority is established on 1 January 2018, and a committee has started work on preparing the establishment of the agency. The Authority shall have a broad mandate covering all gender equality policy objectives. It shall work strategically, in support of knowledge and in coordination. It will ensure that the government's policies are implemented and that the resources we invest are achieved. Several missions that are today fragmented on other authorities are being brought together and permanent. Despite the hard work of skilled individuals, gender equality policy has for too long been built on temporary initiatives with poor conditions for long-term societal change. This has also been investigated and criticised in investigations and reports. The gender equality inquiry was set up by the previous government, because it had insight into this. The main conclusion of the investigation was that a permanent structure at national level is needed to ensure that political priorities and funds invested have an impact on the governance of authorities and activities in the field of gender equality in order to change people's lives – this is what we are talking about here. The Swedish National Audit Office's report, which examined the previous government's gender equality policy, concluded that this policy had not had sufficient impact. There was no impact on the funds invested in gender equality policy. Perhaps a little self-criticism can be found in this debate. The Swedish National Audit Office says that the efforts made did not achieve a reduction in violence. This is a fact. That is one of the major conclusions of this report. Many good things were done, but they did not have the overall effect that they were said to have. The fact that we need a gender equality authority and a collective force is something that the women's movement, equality organisations and professions in this area have pointed out. They have extensive experience and knowledge in this area. In addition, the UN has had views that Sweden does not have a national structure to implement gender equality work. As part of the letter presented by the government, there is a national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women, as has been mentioned here before. This strategy includes work against honour-related violence and repression, as well as issues of prostitution and human trafficking. Preventing the practice of violence, rather than simply dealing with the consequences of violence, is an important complement to support for victims of violence. The Government's strategy focuses on preventive work and also on men's participation and responsibility to stop violence. Action against violence in same-sex relationships is an important component of the strategy. We also draw attention to the fact which is often forgotten: that women with disabilities, unfortunately, are more often exposed to violence than other women. In the strategy, for example, we propose changes to degree descriptions, so that knowledge about men's violence against women and about violence in close relationships is included in education programmes for relevant occupational groups. This is something that has long been demanded by professionals and organisations. We also start a review of the school's sex education to strengthen the message about gender equality and knowledge of rights in this area. We map and evaluate the efforts that are being made that are directed at perpetrators of violence. We also want suggestions on what more can be done to prevent the repetition of violence, including in the area of honour-related violence. The combined actions in this area include efforts of just over SEK 1.3 billion for the period 2017 – 2020. This includes the SEK 100 million for women's shelters that we, together with the Left Party, have already contributed. Madam President, I would like Honour-related violence and oppression must be combated. The equality that we are fighting for must apply to everyone – it is not relative. All women, men, girls and boys should have the right to make their choices and choose their way of life—it should not be dictated by others. Therefore, the government believes that the work against honour-related violence and repression needs to be strengthened, and this is a priority for us. The County Administrative Board of Östergötland continues to be responsible for the national competence team, which among other things provides operational guidance and support to professionals. In addition, the county administrative boards generally continue to receive support in this area. The gender equality authority will also be tasked with working strategically and clearly against honour-related violence and oppression. The mission is to focus on national knowledge collection as well as strategic and cross-cutting issues so that we can you long-term sustainable effects in this area. This together with the work at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland means a clear strengthening of the work against honour-related violence. It is true, as we heard here, that we have had talks with the Liberals with a view to this decision. There have been constructive conversations. I am happy to cooperate with parties that have a history of wanting something in the field of gender equality. It is good for Sweden, and it is good for equality. The government will also identify the existence of honour-related violence and repression including child marriage and forced marriages. The extent to which vulnerable persons have received support should also be investigated. It was called for here in the debate, and it is therefore a measure that the government has already announced. The government will also appoint a special investigator to evaluate the 2014 legislation against child marriage and forced marriages. The issue of a specific penalty for crimes of honour can be introduced. We have also made information efforts on gender equality, sexual and reproductive health, as well as the rights of asylum seekers and newly arrived children and young people. Madam President, I would like It is not allowed to enter into child marriage or forced marriage in Sweden. My starting point and the government's starting point is that no child, regardless of background, should be, treated or considered married in Sweden. Unaccompanied children who come here without a guardian and who are said to be married shall be guaranteed their rights and treated as other unaccompanied minors. The Government decided last Thursday on a commission to the National Board of Health and Welfare to conduct an in-depth analysis based on these starting points of the social services' management and support for the children who are said to be married. The starting point is that these children should be placed and treated as other unaccompanied minors. The National Board of Health and Welfare will also develop reinforced guidance for municipalities on this issue. Madam President, I would like Sweden's position on prostitution and the criminalisation of sex purchases is well known. We have also increased our ambitions in this area when it comes to appointing an ambassador against trafficking in human beings. The Government's objective is that women's employment rates should be equal to those of men and that the pay gap should be evened out. Pay differentials have narrowed, but progress is too slow. We are therefore presenting an action plan for equal pay, and we have once again introduced a salary survey every year. The conditions for full-time work must also be strengthened. The group of women born abroad is the group that increases most in labour force participation, but from low levels. The Employment Service will therefore come up with an action plan for increasing the proportion of foreign-born women entering work or studying. It is very important to have a well-functioning welfare sector for women's and men's opportunities for participation in the labour force. Together with the Left Party, we are investing 10 billion in the municipalities. Madam President, I would like History has shown that many of the issues that my party has pursued together with a strong women's movement have actually been opposed by several parties on the bourgeois side. Now these issues are being embraced, and that is, of course, a good thing. Sometimes you call it self-evident and say that it is Swedish values that you take for granted. Yes, it is usually good, but it is not possible to oppose all concrete proposals when they are presented, let others do the job and take the fight and then claim that you have taken historic responsibility yourself. There is also a party in the Swedish Parliament which, in addition to being xenophobic, actually has a series of – as I see it – clearly anti-female proposals. The Swedish Democrats are happy to talk about gender equality as a Swedish value, but their proposals would take us back to at least the 1950s, before implementing all the proposals that have contributed and led to the degree of equality that we have. This applies, for example, to abortion legislation, which the Swedish Democrats are opposed to. They're for custody, but we know what happened during the last government. The Swedish Democrats have views on special taxation. It sounds technical, but it is a huge issue for those who know the history of gender equality policy. The Swedish Democrats are also in favour of refusing care when it comes to women's right to abortion care. These are serious things, and they cannot be reconciled with the equality that we know about. Therefore, in the debate, I will listen with interest to the Moderates, who have said that they will start working together – which I regret – with the Swedish Democrats. How are you going to deal with these issues? What are you prepared to compromise away in your talks with the Swedish Democrats? What are you prepared to negotiate with regard to what we have all fought so hard for and what we have achieved for Swedish gender equality? I would like to know, and I am sure that men, women and voters in Sweden will also be aware of this. Madam President, I would like Gender equality is a freedom project for both women and men. I represent a government that believes in real change. We are facing major challenges. These are difficult times for equality. But we have opportunities. The world is changing.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-388	Madam President and President-in-Office of the Council, Åsa Regnér! There are many things that we agree on in the work on gender equality policy. Historically, we have had a great deal of cooperation. When I entered the Riksdag and became Federal Chairman of the Center Women, we worked closely with the various women's associations across all party boundaries. We always agreed on the goals but not always on the way there. One of the agreements we reached across the political boundaries led us to participate in building the National Centre for Women's Peace in Uppsala. Ingegerd Sahlberg was an investigator when it was proposed to the government. She was a Social Democratic Member of Parliament from Halland. She made sure to invite us women's union presidents, including me and Désirée, to these meetings. We discussed and ensured that there was agreement on this. With regard to the cases in the letter, we agree that it is very good to add these two additional objectives. We very much appreciate the holistic approach to strategies in the work against violence. Getting it in place is a challenge. We also appreciate that there will be better governance and coherent monitoring and evaluation. In these parts we agree, but we have chosen to put it on an existing authority instead of creating a new one, so in that part we disagree. What I am deeply concerned about is the process. We have different views on what the authority should look like and where it should be. But the most serious thing is that somewhere you break the business in the centres of expertise that we have agreed to build up – NCK's funds, the County Administrative Board in Stockholm that works with prostitution and trafficking and the County Administrative Board in Östergötland. I have always urged you, do not tear down without building on! In what way can you, Åsa Regnér, guarantee that these centres of excellence will remain?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-393	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that there is so much commitment in this debate. It has marked the morning, and I am also pleased that we have a consensus on many of the major issues. I just want to say that the Member of Parliament who was also Secretary of State for a long time is called Ingegerd Sahlström. I followed very closely the work of setting up the National Centre for Women's Peace. It was a rather complicated process. Even then, there was no structure for the governance of gender issues. Therefore, I followed that work extremely closely, and the work done there is very good. Therefore, we also have a close dialogue with the National Centre for Women's Peace as we are now establishing and discussing the new authority – this to ensure that this work is done in a quality way. This also applies to the parts that should remain there. I would like to say that we are doing it on a daily basis. I need to ask you one more question. Are you for one authority now but another kind of authority? The very criticism that the Swedish National Audit Office directed at you was that the more than 2 billion you had for your work for gender equality was not used in a good way and that you did not get the effects you wanted. For example, violence did not decrease. The Swedish National Audit Office says that the work that exists today is too fragmented, because we do not have a gender equality authority as opposed to all other policy areas where there is an authority. We're going to achieve better effects now. I do not quite understand: Sometimes you want things to be as it always has been, and sometimes you want an authority.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-400	Madam President, I would like Then the Government has not read our motions very carefully, because we have been saying for many years that there needs to be an authority that gets the cohesive responsibility. We do not want to create a new authority, but we want to use an existing authority. Our argument for this is that there is a risk when a new authority is set up that responsibility always lands there. For many years we have been working in a way that has been successful, and it is about ensuring that everyone has a responsibility. Regardless of where you are in Sweden, it is everyone's responsibility to have a good and developing job in this regard. We would like to have a coordinating responsibility in a single authority, but not in a new authority. There will be a bit of rough rhetoric when you talk about the propensity to register and say that more report. When we set up and expanded the mission to the National Centre for Women's Peace and when we launched the action plan, we were clear that for a period of time it would mean an increase in the number of notifications. According to Trumps's rhetoric right now, we have a rape capital. This is because we register more, and we have also increased the propensity to register. In the same way, it is when it comes to violence against women. I assume that this is not entirely new matter and that it is not just a question of increasing violence, although it is also a part of it. If we look at the work to develop track safety kits, we see that many more have chosen to register and also take the step further after registration. It is for other authorities to make the same journey as NCK by developing different methods and by developing them. NCK's mission is to combine research and development with clinical activities. Will this be at the new equality authority?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-406	Madam President, I would like Annika Qarlsson! It is not I who have said from the outset that your work was too fragmented and that you did not have any impact on the resources invested, but it was the National Audit Office and the investigation that you set up and that would look at the gender equality work. They are the ones who say that the violence did not sink during the time when you had good intentions and money to reduce violence against women in Sweden. Your policy has been reviewed, and it has been done through solid work. They say that the structure does not last, but needs to be strengthened. This has nothing to do with Trump. It is the National Audit Office and the investigation that you yourself set up that have arrived at these conclusions. We now have a strategy of 1.3 billion over a four-year period to get strong work on the issue of violence against women, to reduce violence against women and to ensure that the battle is not dealt with or that rape does not happen. We shall make all these efforts to reduce violence and bring down the figures. You can't be against this, can you? It is this type of work that should be strengthened by pooling efforts at the agency. This gives us an opportunity to see if we are on the right track. If we are – that's great! Let's make more of what works. If we're on the wrong path, we'll have to steer. You did not have this follow-up mechanism. You were in government for eight years and did not permanentize the activities that you now want to retain. It is good that you want to keep the issue of violence against women on the agenda. But why didn't you permanentize them yourselves?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-411	Madam President, I would like I very much appreciate that the Minister for Gender Equality is here today to debate this important issue. It is true that we agree on the overall objectives and on the milestones. It is in how the work is to be organized that we differ, and that is the main point. It is also a fairly important part of the case. I put the same question to the Minister for Gender Equality as I have asked many others, because it is still the Minister for Gender Equality who has the power to change something in our country. Several heavy consultation bodies have had objections to closing down various functioning activities, such as in Uppsala and Östergötland. A lot of people are asking themselves what it's gonna be like. The letter does not provide very clear answers. The people who work in the operations expect an answer to why the government chooses to break down functioning activities and form a new gender equality authority. One might next think that the creation of a new equality authority is because you want to show that you believe in these issues and want to get the media's eye on it. But in fact, you are actually breaking up the important work that has been done for many years when you are organizationally doing this. I would also like to put another question to the Minister for Equal Opportunities. I wonder how a minister for gender equality can be on a social media picture and joke about the coercion and oppression of women. There is an important difference: in Iran, you go to prison if you do not dress in a certain way, but you do not do so in Sweden. What signals does this give to women who, in the name of honour, are oppressed in Sweden? And does it not indicate a particularly bad judgment, Madam President, when a Minister for Gender Equality sets out on such a picture?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-416	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying and good that the Moderates express support for the gender equality policy objectives, because it is those we govern from outside, and it is in relation to them that we should measure our efforts, activities and time. On the other hand, your proposals in the area of gender equality policy do not reflect their absence in advancing their positions. You are almost always against concrete proposals being made. Now you are a posteriori in favour of a lot of activities in the field of gender equality policy. I also ask you: Why did you not permanentize, for example, the work at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland? I really want to know, because now you're driving it so hard. My ambition is to strengthen the work on gender equality, and I draw lessons from the studies and reports that have been carried out. They are about your time in power and about the equality policy that was then conducted. Here are concrete proposals on how to reinforce the effect of equality and in people's lives in relation to what the bourgeois government achieved. That is why I have taken a proposal for an equality authority ad notam. We have authorities in all other policy areas in Sweden. I think the talks we had with the Liberals were good. We were then able to bring together our views on these issues, and through the talks we held, we have reinforced the honour-related efforts against honour-related violence. As far as that picture is concerned, I would ask Erik Andersson to take the debate with the Minister for Finance. She's the one who commented on all of this. My ambition is to strengthen gender equality in Sweden and people's lives.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-421	Madam President, I would like I can take it with the Minister for Finance, but the Minister for Gender Equality was actually in the picture. This indicates in some way the approval of a bad judgment. The Minister for Gender Equality says that we Moderates are always against everything. Yes, of course we are against bad proposals. If the proposals were good, we would not be against them. It's no wonder. When it comes to permanent operations in Östergötland, for example, which were managed in project form, we want to do so because the business is good. We want to ensure that this activity can remain and not be broken by creating a new equality authority, which many believe will do great wonders for equality in the country. However, as I said earlier in the debate, the main problems we have to deal with are the beating of women and the living of women under oppression and violence. This is where we will put the large resources, and the various activities in Uppsala and Östergötland have been an important addition to preventing, counteracting and preventing bad and poor behaviour that some people have. I have nothing more to add, Madam President.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-425	Madam President, I would like Erik Andersson! You spoke in your introduction about many years of work on gender equality. I am serious about the fact that I believe that one must both know one's history and see one's role in supporting gender equality policy proposals. Characteristic of Sweden, for example, is our abortion legislation. You weren't for it when it was introduced. Nor were you in favour of special taxation when it was introduced. You are now, which, of course, I think is very good. But I mean you have to see your part of history and the stages you're involved in yourself. Now you do not want to take steps that I am absolutely convinced will lead to Sweden getting a much more professional control of gender equality work. This will do justice to all the efforts that are being made today and give a mutated effect compared to what we are getting out in Sweden today. In terms of gender equality policy during your time, there were two things that stood out in particular, on the one hand that violence levels did not fall despite efforts in this area, and on the other hand that the impact of the money spent cannot be measured. For me, that's a pretty big question. It's taxpayers' money. They have the right to be able to demand responsibility, but they cannot do so today in the area of equal opportunities. But it is also the case that economic equality did not improve significantly, and that is something that these reports refer to. I take that very seriously. I want to strengthen the entire work on gender equality and stick together the gender equality policy objectives. I am sure that an authority in this area is part of improving our work on gender equality.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-429	Madam President, I would like Today is victim's day. In Brå's 2015 statistics, you can read that 18,100 sexual offences were recorded during the year, including 5,920 rapes. As for violence in close relationships, there were 17,000 assault crimes. The Youth Board's previous study on honorary violence shows that 5 percent of young people do not feel that they can marry anyone they want. These are figures that I believe the Government knows. Some 70 000 young people between the ages of 16 and 25 feel that it is not allowed to decide over their lives. In this context, I would like to say that there are many activities that we built up under the alliance government – or earlier; the CNK already existed under previous governments. We have agreed that we must strengthen the various centres of excellence. Now I have been involved for so long in the work of gender equality that I have been involved in proposing these very national centres of competence, as well as national action plans. Here we have managed to build up activities that cannot be built up in an authority. The question then remains as to how coordination is to take place. As I said, both Statskontoret and various investigations say that there are other options to work on, as a delegation – someone proposes a national council – and that it is always a government that has the ultimate responsibility for coordination. Will the government release this responsibility to the Authority now, or what will it look like? Will the support functions of these activities remain? I don't think any of us here have got an answer to that.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-432	Madam President, I would like I got the point earlier that I'm going to ask the questions now, and I do that. Why did you and your colleagues in the Alliance not support the permanent activities that you are now constantly addressing in your speeches? Why didn't you do it for eight years if you think they're so important? I also think they are important, and we will have permanent activities to bring them together in the Equality Agency. Some will remain in the places where they are today. But what is strategically comprehensive and that makes it possible to see whether we are on the right track or not, whether we get what we have planned from our money and whether we work strategically in the field of gender equality policy in relation to our priorities or not should be at the gender equality authority. In fact, I wonder why you did not take the opportunity to permanence these activities during your eight years in power. There was a delegation on violence against women when women's peace legislation was introduced in the late 1990s, Désirée Pethrus. We did it then. All we now see is a development of it. We have come a long way since we had a delegation on violence against women in Sweden. We've already tried it. All we do is develop women's peace legislation – at least it was a starting point for a lot of work. It was also followed by a delegation. We're past it a long time ago. We have over 180 authorities in Sweden. Should we not govern Sweden in this way? Should we not have authorities in our management model anymore? If you think that we should have authorities in other areas, why should we not have this so that people can demand responsibility and have an impact on their tax resources also in the area of gender equality policy?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-435	Madam President, I would like The activities we have built up with national competence centres have usually had long agreements. Östergötland only got a year instead of five years, if I don't remember wrong. One can certainly discuss whether they should be permanent or not, but I think the most important thing is that we have tried to find new activities that can respond to the great needs of knowledge, skills, support for different activities in the country and support for individuals. This is the type of activity that is often requested. We need to improve in public authorities, in society and in non-profit organisations in meeting the vulnerable women. The question then is whether that is what we really need to build, rather than an authority. That is the balance that we are going to make here. Then it is absolutely possible that we could land in some kind of authority-like form of coordination. But what we in the opposition may focus primarily on is: why break down these well-functioning activities, which we have built up for so long, with so much effort and with so much power and so much competence? Why, Minister, do we have to break up these activities in order to finance a new authority? I think it's strange that they should have to take each other out. That is what has been our main criticism here today. I think we need to try to look after the women who are at risk. The fact that a feminist government destroys these activities does not seem very active. It is the government that leads the country, and it is the government and the government that are responsible for the progress of gender equality policy. My question is still: will these support functions and this operational work be able to continue after we have made a decision here today? I'm not so sure about that, and this is where we have our criticism.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-439	Madam President, I would like Désirée Pethrus can be sure we won't break anything. Instead, we strengthen gender equality efforts. I repeat: the criticism of the work carried out by the Alliance in the field of gender equality has not been that it had too little money or that it did the wrong things from the beginning, but that the work did not have an impact. It did not have an impact on gender equality policy objectives, and therefore on people's lives. The money was not used effectively. That's what happened during these eight years. That is why we have taken careful care of the proposals and analyses that say that there is a lack of a national coherent policy implementation structure. One criticism that is being made in the background is that it is too fragmented today. Every place where good work is done today has often been a solution because one has not had another authority. You put it where you could. They are very good individuals, and it is also often good quality businesses that are there. It has been so divided because there was not a cohesive place in Sweden in this area, unlike any other policy area, where we have authorities. Most of us have several of them. I am absolutely convinced that we are strengthening the overall work on gender equality in Sweden. Above all, we strengthen our ability to get equality policy out so that it affects people's lives. We will be very careful to take advantage of the skills available. We conduct daily dialogue with the County Administrative Board in Östergötland, NCK and the County Administrative Board in Stockholm to do so in the best possible way.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-443	Madam President, I would like As I assume that no minister wants to go untruthful – I think it was only a mistake – I can inform you at the outset that the Swedish Democrats are not against us having abortion legislation in Sweden. On the other hand, we are prepared to review weekly limits in line with medical developments. We are not in favour of any refusal to care. On the other hand, we stand up for the right that was once so obvious that it was not explicitly included in our legislation that health professionals should not have to participate in all the tasks provided that the tasks they do not want to participate in involve the extinguishment of some form of human life. There is no contradiction with the fact that those who wish to have an abortion have it carried out. It works perfectly in many other parts of the world. I can also say that it is distressing that we have a Minister for Gender Equality who has such weak faith in women's and, for that matter, men's ability to shape her own lives that she automatically assumes that a custody allowance or the possibility of totally voluntary co-taxation would steer us into outdated structures that used to exist in our society. For example, when it comes to co-taxation in this society, we are very good at looking at households' total income when it comes to what we should take away from them, but not at allowing them themselves, if they want, to have the opportunity to choose to have co-taxation if they want to have a fully common economy. I'm here to ask you a question. I would like to thank the Minister for spending much longer in her speech than the words in the letter on the issue of honour in our country. We know that far too much time has passed with far too many misses. We know that in 2014 we were the only party that told us that the marriage law was not enough with the exception that existed. My question is: When does the Government think there will be a law where all forms of child marriage are totally forbidden?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-448	Madam President, I would like Refusal of women seeking their legal right to abortion is a refusal of care. It's nothing else. It does not work perfectly in other countries. It's an insult to women to claim that. There are countries where individual health care professionals and entire health care establishments can feel: No, I don't want to do this, go somewhere else. It could have terrible consequences for women. We need to talk about what we are talking about here. It is not possible to be in favour of refusal to care and claim to be on the side of women. I understand you want to restrict the right to abortion. The Swedish abortion law has opportunities for women who seek abortion later in pregnancy to do so. Those who do it later than the twelfth week often do so because they have seen severe birth defects or because there are very severe psychosocial problems that the individual girl or woman faces. It is also not politicians who set the limit in Swedish abortion legislation, which I think is a good system. You are not in favour of Swedish abortion legislation. You are against fundamental elements of the issue of women's freedom. Gender equality in Sweden is based on women as well as men being able to support themselves. It is a very important part of gender equality policy and also in the Swedish model. When special taxation was introduced in the 1970s, it led to a huge increase in the participation of women in the labour force. It is probably the single most important reform in order to achieve what we are building the whole of gender equality work on today. You're questioning it. It is not possible to be in favour of equality if you are against discrimination. That's impossible.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-451	Madam President, I would like I'm afraid I can't thank you for the answer because I didn't get one. My question therefore remains. When will we have effective legislation that will put all child marriages in place in our country wherever and when they are committed? As the question remains, I can continue to comment on the claims I received back. No, we're not for refusal to care. Yes, there are countries where opportunities have been made for a complete halt to abortion. It's not okay. But there are also countries where it works well, such as our neighbour Norway. There are no problems at all in combining freedom of conscience and access to all forms of child care and maternal care that exist, including abortion. We know we have a great shortage of midwives in our country. It is absolutely terrible if people cannot go to that industry because they do not feel that they can look at their whole. We have the problem there rather than the fact that a few could say: This particular activity we can try to schedule so that I do not participate in it. There are two completely different issues to discuss the right to freedom of conscience and to argue that this would be tantamount to refusal to care. I also have a brief final comment on co-taxation and special taxation. We are not against special taxation. However, we are in favour of more opportunities in general. We have also taken a stand because it would be interesting to see and investigate. Would it be possible at all for families and couples who so desire to have their economy fully in common? This would, of course, mean that it was also reflected elsewhere with joint pension contributions and such things. It would be in fixed-term times, and it is not a sharp proposal. We want to investigate the possibilities at all. We do not want to lock adult people in our country into structures that are built to get away from problems that existed once and that do not exist today.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-456	Madam President, I would like The government has announced that we will very soon be making a decision on the investigation of child marriage and will have such a proposal during the year. No, it is not possible to be in favour of refusal of care, co-taxation and, for that matter, custody allowance. The list can be made long on what you really run. One can pursue all those issues, but one cannot be in favour of equality at the same time. You said in a post that you could have imagined doing anything, having different kinds of occupations, and didn't have the notion that one was connected with the other. That's great! But that, Paula Bieler, depends on other women's work for equality, not yours.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-459	Madam President, I would like We agree on some of this. That's good. What we agree on, we do not need to discuss much in this change of line. However, we have a point of view from the Liberals on one of the parts where we do not agree. It concerns the target structure of gender equality policy. Sweden now has six sub-objectives for gender equality policy. It is about the division of power, economic equality, equal education, equal domestic work, equal health and the cessation of men's violence against women. Then, of course, you can discuss in each area. From what ideological point of view we can discuss what we want economic development to look like, and so on. We have a proposal from the Liberals and also a reservation in this report. We believe that one of the milestones that Sweden has – we should have seven – should be integration. It could be worded as follows: Women and men, girls and boys, as immigrants should be met with the same expectations in all areas of Swedish society and have the same rights and opportunities to create an independent life in Sweden. I must say that I am a little surprised that the government does not want this, Madam President. We have alarming differences between women and men today, especially in areas such as establishment. It takes women between nine and eleven years of age from reception before half of them have entered the labour market. The corresponding figure for men is three to seven years. We look at the area by area how this goes again. My question to the Minister is why it does not want integration to be an intermediate objective of gender equality policy in Sweden.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-464	Madam President, I would like We agree on certain parts but not on everything, and we still have a lot to talk about here. On the issue of integration in relation to gender equality, I think it is extremely important, and that is something the government prioritises. That is why we have several proposals, including what I was talking about here, for more women and men to be able to enter the labour market and study more quickly. I am also conducting talks in the areas for which I am responsible, in terms of social services or, for example, placements in municipalities, about really seeing newly arrived women as a breadwinner as well as men. Women and men should be seen, even if they are part of a newly appointed couple, as the individuals we consider Swedish-born women and men as when it comes to expectations of their own income and so on. For me, this is extremely important; it is part of both integration policy and gender equality policy and important to me. I'm no stranger to strengthening the area in different ways. As for the number of goals, I was actually a little reluctant to expand to six goals. I think, of course, that the objectives are good, but when you need clarity in a policy area, I think it is important that you have as few and clear goals or milestones as possible, so that you agree on how to steer and what it is you are spending the money on. Then I became convinced on the journey that we need to highlight these two further goals, and I am pleased about that now. However, I would like to take the question with me, because I think it is important. I will look at how we can further strengthen it, but I believe that in the letter we have a series of proposals that do.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-470	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying if the Government wants to take the matter with it and think about it again, because it is important. There are in some sense two parts to this – the thing and the structure. You can discuss both. I am convinced that we can agree on many of the factual measures that are being implemented and that we can disagree with others, but the structural issue with regard to the gender equality policy objectives that we are discussing is, I believe, very important linked to integration. The integration challenges we see in the area of gender equality go again in a number of different areas. It is about the labour market and entry into it, that women earn less than men and that many women who have come here to Sweden do not come out and can work almost at all. It goes again in pensions, and it turns on parenthood as well as in a number of other areas as well. And then I am only in areas which, as it were, concern our area of preparation in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, Madam President. You can also get into other parts and see exactly the same pattern. It would therefore be very positive if we could discuss how integration issues can be more clearly included as an objective of gender equality policy. This is not just about alarming differences between women and men within immigrant groups or within the immigrant population; it is also about the immigrant population as some sort of collective compared to the native population. There are great differences that we really need to combat. These are some of the most important issues facing our nation in the coming decades.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-475	Madam President, I would like The Government's gender equality policy covers everyone regardless of background. Gender equality policy is for everyone, and it is not relative. Then we need to find ways of achieving the gender equality objectives and ensure that everyone is covered by the rights and freedom that it actually entails if we get there. We will work for this in different ways.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-477	Madam President, I would like The House now has to discuss the Committee on Transport's report No 6 on IT and postal matters. There are two subjects that may not directly have much to do with each other, but in the end they are still partly communicating vessels. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 1 and 10. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of Nos 1 and 10. The IT policy in Sweden is based on the fact that the expansion of broadband infrastructure that is currently in full swing has the potential to continue at a high pace to reach all parts and corners of our country. Against this background, it is gratifying that the government has been involved in raising the ambition for how much broadband is to be expanded and for the objectives in this area. It is also important that the pace of this is not degressive. For this to be possible, we need to have a well-functioning broadband market that safeguards the conditions for competition and a level playing field between different players. There must be conditions to dig, no matter where in the country you are, when this form of fiber is going down the hill. There are some worrying signals coming from parts of the country that municipalities choose to say no to commercial operators who, under market conditions and without subsidies, want to expand our Swedish broadband infrastructure. These are issues we need to take seriously and problems we need to overcome. In order for this to be possible, we in this Chamber and the Government must take responsibility for providing the right conditions for market expansion and complement with what we need to complement to ensure that high-speed broadband reaches all the way across the country. In order to do this, it is important to take note of what has been said earlier in both investigations and announcements from this house that the state fibre networks that exist in other activities, such as the Swedish Power Network and the Swedish Transport Administration, should be made available even more. It is about us being able to use them for ordinary internet communications, telephone communications and other electronic communications on market terms. It is the state communication infrastructure that should benefit all the inhabitants of Sweden. It is also important to ensure that we do not engage in errors with municipal or state funds. There too, the leadership of the government and this House must be clear. It is not the case that investment in extensive municipal wireless networks in inner-city areas does anything other than frustrate the conditions for taking profits from what is created in inner-city areas and expanding communication infrastructure in rural areas. Thus, there is a subsidy at one end that creates the need for even greater subsidies at the other end. It gets more expensive, and it gets worse. That is why there is a moderate reservation in which we stress this very point. It is also important that the availability of 700-megaher t z band continues as fast as possible, while safeguarding the ability of the blue light authorities to create a national, secure communications network so that even in difficult times we have a well-functioning police, well-functioning emergency services and well-functioning ambulance service. Furthermore, the defence should have access to good communications, and other societal structures should be strong even in a so-called twilight mode. To make use of this fantastic expansion of infrastructure and the availability of frequency spectrum, we need stronger leadership in the digitisation process than we possibly see today. We have started to get to that point in the development where we no longer only talk about how many kilometres of cable are going out but also about what is going to be in it. How are we to digitise our government agencies and meet people in the digital era? Some time ago I could experience that when I was going to help my grandmother apply for extended home help after my grandfather recently passed away, I could not get that form sent to me by email. It was only in paper format. Of course, you should have the opportunity to get all the official forms and all that it can be in paper format, but that it is not even possible to get some official forms in digital format to fail, Madam President! If there is a structure of 290 municipalities, with strong municipal self-government, as it is in a country like Sweden, which is fundamentally important and good, an even stronger leadership from the government is required when making a united digitalization of the public sector. Unfortunately, such leadership shines with its absence. This is an issue that will also be touched upon in an interpellation debate tomorrow between me and Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. So to the mail! It is an area which, I believe, affects many of us. It is a public service that we expect to be in place, and which has been in place in Sweden and in many other parts of the world, for a long period of time. It has often been the stability of our communication system. Although the regular mail may no longer be what constitutes the large amount of our communication with each other, it is important that it works. Being able to transport objects and send letters remains important. But we must ensure that there is a postal service in the country that meets the new needs in a new era with the conditions for digitalisation. That is why we must draw the consequences of the reduction in the volume of letters in order to make it possible to have a strong public service in the future as well. For example, we need to review the rule of overnight transport. It is an increasingly shrinking volume of letters that need to be transported overnight. There is a small percentage of letters that need to get from one place to another in Sweden overnight. In large parts of the country, this is in reality nothing more than a premium service when you need to get an item moved quickly. Having overnight transport as part of statutory social responsibility is something that needs to be reviewed. It has also been reviewed in the framework of the postal inquiry, which has now submitted its final report. We are in favour of the proposals contained in the investigation. We believe that they allow more co-distribution, for example, that newspapers and letters can be distributed jointly – with one delivery per day instead of two deliveries per day. It can generate both efficiency gains and a longer-term cost picture in the postal market as well as major environmental benefits. None of this will reach its full potential unless the governance of the State Postnord is improved. For a period of time we have seen in the media that Postnord has extensive problems. These are problems that need to be dealt with in order to secure a good postal service for everyone. I therefore look forward with great excitement to the further steps that the government will take to ensure postal services and the future survival and stability of our state-owned company. The post office is now making great efforts to take on the growing parcel market. But it must not be at the expense of the somewhat more shrinking letter market. I look forward to what measures the government will propose in this area. Madam President, I would like I look forward to an exciting debate, and I support reservations 1 and 10.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-496	Mr President, I would like to Before I drift into the future, I would like to support the reservations of the Swedish Democrats, Nos 2 and 12. Let's look at the future. High up in a skyscraper in one of the country's major cities or in the deep forests of Sweden's interior, perhaps up on a mountain peak, or why not out in the archipelago in a small sun-bleached red cottage with white knots, you sit and work unhindered with the internet. It's from answering emails to controlling a process industry. It should not make any difference where you are in Sweden because we have the world's most expanded IT infrastructure with a stable, cheap and secure connection. This gives a great freedom of movement to live and work throughout Sweden. With a fast and secure connection, you get more freedom, and you don't have to be connected to your workplace. In all simplicity, you shop online yourself, and you choose when the goods you have ordered are to be delivered – just when you want and how you want. It is drones that deliver this service, and it doesn't matter if you live in the big city, inaccessible out in the deep forests or for that matter up on a mountain top. We have long since given letters in favour of electronic letters. Autonomous vehicles are everywhere on our streets. There are drone taxis flying us fast to where we want to go. Sounds great, doesn't it? If we look further ahead in the future, the technology has taken big steps, and we have got a greater craving to squeeze and feel the packages we want to buy. In the future, many people have become comfortable and loneliness has come true – you are very at home. Many stores have found it difficult to survive because the internet trade has become very large. Projected meetings and videoconferencing are soon a thing of the past, now that you can easily meet by teleporting. Like Captain Kirk of Star Trek, it is now possible to disappear from one place to simultaneously appear in a completely different place. Cars, trains and airplanes are unnecessary now that we can beam anywhere. No one knows where we're going to land in a future. Will we be able to beam ourselves? Nobody knows. But at least we Swedish democrats will not stand in the way of technological development. Madam President, I would like The future is tomorrow. We're not quite there yet, but maybe we'll get there in the future. Increasingly, the population is calling for a fast and stable internet connection. This applies both at work and in leisure time. Information and entertainment are becoming more and more internet-based and digitally accessible. We Swedish democrats believe that this ultimately makes Internet accessibility a democracy issue. A Sweden where not all citizens have the same chance to participate in the public debate we see as harmful and something that in the long term risks polarising society into the countryside and the city. Infrastructure is not only about transport possibilities but also includes technical infrastructure for communication such as broadband. High-quality infrastructure of this kind is becoming increasingly important for business and the individual citizen. The Swedish Democrats share the Rural Committee's view that 100 per cent of the population should have access to fast broadband by 2025. We note that in December 2016, the Government presented a new broadband strategy with, among other things, the goal that Sweden as a whole should have access to fast broadband by 2025. It is important that the Government urgently takes the necessary measures to achieve those objectives. Madam President, I would like If you live in a larger city, you can see that you have had many more opportunities to pick up packages elsewhere than the post offices we had before. Many more opportunities have been given to leave packages and send packages. On the other hand, if you live in sparsely populated areas or in rural areas, it has been noticed that the number of service points and country mail carriers has decreased over time. This has meant, among other things, that many rural and rural people have been given more and more time to go to the nearest postal agent to pick up their mail. In addition to the deterioration of the service level, the increase in car driving has a negative impact on the environment. It also puts entrepreneurship and local growth at a disadvantage. We Swedish democrats believe that it is important that those living outside the larger urban areas also have access to equal public services in order to safeguard a vibrant countryside and strengthen the attractiveness and growth of rural areas. This development is also ongoing at a time of increasing internet use and growing e-commerce. It is therefore important that the Government commissions the Post and Telecom Agency to increase the number of postal agents in rural areas so that the postal service network and coverage level are increased. In this way, rural residents will be given shorter distances to their representatives in order to collect packages and other postal items.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-512	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 15. I would like to stress how important it is that we can stimulate competition in the postal market, that postal operators have access to the infrastructure that exists in the country – including postal numbers – and that we are working towards more co-distribution. In times when you feel that service is worse in the country, this is an important opportunity that we have to work to implement in as large a collaboration as possible. We also need to work to ensure daily distribution. These are extremely important issues for the country's further development. It is about how the whole country can stay together and how we can get the conditions to live, operate and operate regardless of where in Sweden we are, grow up or settle. In 2015, more than three quarters of the population aged 16-85 used the Internet daily, and seven out of ten used the computer. Looking back, we can see that progress has been very fast, but that there is still a lot to be done at the same time. We need a level playing field and full participation when it comes to IT infrastructure. The Swedish Urban Network Association's study from October 2016 on digital exclusion shows that there is a lack of knowledge, a lack of ability, a lack of motivation, a lack of access to the internet and a lack of access to hardware that can prevent people from participating in digital contexts. All households and businesses should have good opportunities to use electronic community services and services via broadband. Today it's really hard for a lot of people. The practical possibilities are lacking, not least in rural and sparsely populated areas. With today's political commitment and control of resources, there is a risk that the split between communities and people in Sweden will be even greater. As development progresses faster, gaps increase. We must take that into account. The broadband strategy that has been presented has good objectives and ambitious targets, but it requires monitoring how they are to be realised and achieved with concrete action. There is also a need for much more money and less red tape in application. We can see that in many places in Sweden there is full speed in the expansion of broadband. The fibre industry often finds it difficult to cope. Yet money is missing, and the projects have become more expensive than was anticipated when the funds were allocated. Municipalities play a key role in broadband work. The fact that there is local commitment and local will is very important. The power of action exists, and there is an understanding of why this is extremely important. With working broadband and developing entrepreneurship, services and community involvement are also growing. Without functioning broadband, growth is limited or absent, and we see exclusion. When I reflected on the debate, I noted that it is ten years since I, as Chairman of the Municipal Board at home in Säffle, had a close dialogue with landowner representatives, development groups and entrepreneurs on the need for broadband. We had the opportunity to co-operate with Vattenfall a distance of 20 km out on Värmlandsnäs. We made the decision to do this. It was the start of a huge popular movement at home in my municipality. For a few years we built fibre broadband as reached through the whole countryside. In the council, we adopted a target of 100% coverage. We reached 92 - 93 percent after a few years. Anyone who wanted to join. With our own efforts and great voluntary commitment, we strengthened the district. Today we have a great collaboration with fibre associations that cover the municipality and a municipal broadband company that was started during these years. Not everything was detailed or clear in advance, but gradually we did this. We also invested a lot of money. We learned a lot and gained experience. In retrospect, we can think about what our countryside looks like today and what it would have looked like if we had not made this huge investment together. For my part, I connected the croft there at home in the summer of 2010. It's almost seven years ago. Since then I have had 100 megabits, but I still have poor cell phone coverage. It says a lot about how it looks in Sweden. It works actively and makes investments, but the priority on the market is not always the same. The terms are different. Madam President, I would like So I personally know how important it is to operate broadband. I can also see the effect of it at home but also in other parts of Sweden. Entrepreneurship, development work and future faith follow the practical investments in future-oriented broadband. But we also see a worrying picture with frustration and staunch commitment. When people don't get this grant granted and can't build their fiber network, the future of the district stands and weighs. The money is enough for two out of three associations. The fact that there is now such a lack of funds is a huge concern for us to deal with together. The government has often pointed out that additional money has been spent on broadband work: 1 billion. Of these, 150 million come from the rural development programme. Indirectly, resources are removed from other important measures that also need to be taken to strengthen rural areas. Looking at the picture, you see that 35 per cent of all households in Sweden have no broadband connection with a capacity of at least 100 megabits per second. Dalarna County is the worst; it is reportedly 53 per cent that does not have 100 megabits. In my county of Värmland, the figure is 42%. At the same time, technology development means that many services depend on functional IT connectivity. We are facing the next generation with 5G, connected cars, self-driving vehicles and other applications for industry and business as well as housing – smart homes, smart cities and perhaps also smart villages and villages. This allows for a lot of new things, but then people must not be left out. The Center Party wants it to be the fifth mode of transport. We believe that this will help to make it easier to build a basic IT infrastructure throughout the country. The Swedish Transport Administration's competition and choice of measures studies will then be considered a priority in a different way. We also want to see a digital right of alleman, which guarantees stable and fast connectivity throughout the country. This promotes decentralisation, improves communications and reduces environmental impact. At the same time, we see that rural areas now get rid of a functioning copper network without the alternatives being in place. The delay in enabling accessibility in the 700-megahertz band makes it difficult for many of these areas. Here it is about surface coverage and opportunities from a whole-country perspective. It is important that the ongoing work on investigations and other matters is speeded up and prioritised so that part of the 700-megahertz band can be used for better broadband coverage even in civil terms. At the same time, it is important to ensure secure communication solutions also for blue light authorities and green authorities. The 700 band is central to rural areas, and having a good coverage and a good reach throughout the country makes it possible to keep this together and also increase the capacity for new and modern services. At the same time, society is vulnerable. We are now faced with a total defence plan with a resumption of civil defence. We meet hybrid threats, various propaganda activities, information warfare and also tests of Swedish vulnerability. These are important perspectives that also need to be included when we discuss future infrastructure and robustness, security and security. Mr President, I would like to Once again, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 15.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-539	Mr President, I would like to PTS reports that complaints about the postal distribution have increased in 2015 and the first part of 2016. The most common reason why the public is addressing PTS is precisely deficiencies in the distribution. These are consignments which, for some reason, have not arrived or been delayed. We now also see cases where different people have ended up with the bailiff because they have not received their bills. This can have devastating consequences for the low-income person. Several companies have also contacted and complained because you are completely dependent on the postal service working and otherwise unable to operate. This is a basic public service. Unfortunately, the objectives mean more than the means in this matter. We have seen cuts in the mail of 2 000 to 3 000 per year, some of the most recent years. We send fewer letters than before, and the delivery from the mail has also decreased by 20 percent. But the cuts are visible in the business. The employees in the post office notice that the workload has increased. I met with Seko and postal workers, and we talked about, among other things, previous efficiency measures and lean processes that have been worked on. Nowadays, even the most efficient lean processes do not work, but there is chaos on the floor. You have to beat yourself to the letters, as I understand it. Then it is not surprising that there will be errors in the postal distribution. According to the authority, the reason is the strong pressure on the Swedish postal market. It is, in particular, declining letter volumes as a result of increased use of electronic options that cause this lack of resources within the mail and that the resources are not sufficient for what is to be implemented. Sekos calls for the new postal legislation to better address these issues and to provide the conditions for maintaining the social mission. A very important point to make is that there must be a requirement that all properties have post office boxes to make it easier for postmen and make operations more efficient. Unfortunately, the management of the post office has not had much contact with those who work on the floor when developing, for example, sorting and distribution systems. When Mr Seko and the management of the post were with us in committee, it became clear that communication on this has not worked. This is recurring in many activities today: that one does not have contact with the floor when the business is conducted. It's incredibly important, especially when we have little resources. So let us hope that the Minister, Mikael Damberg, will take this on board and steer it up in several ways, including the question of the management of the post office. We in the Left Party believe that a functioning postal service is a basic public service which we must ensure works. Many people, not least with a tight economy, are hit very hard when bills and letters disappear. We also want to ensure that the postal service works throughout the country, including in rural areas, and that rural entrepreneurs are guaranteed that they can use the mail in their activities. Therefore, we want the Government to commission Postnord to work together and in dialogue with the Government to develop a strategy to improve the conditions for the post office to function. This is a state of crisis, I would say, with all the reports we have heard and individuals who have been hit very hard because the post is not working. It is important for the government to act on this issue, and Mikael Damberg will now discuss the merger with Denmark and the Danish post and how it affects the economic situation in Sweden. We will follow this trend and see how it goes. But it is very important that we address this issue. We have tough financial targets for Postnord with a return requirement of 10.5 percent in recent years. The statutory service targets and the financial targets set by the owners do not go together. They run in different directions, and that's what appears in the business. In addition, the current postal legislation is designed in a way that disadvantages the postal company performing the social mission. The post office, which has social responsibility, should not be discriminated against. Today, the post office has to account for its prices, which makes it easier for competitors to take business. This is an unequal structure that puts free companies' rights before our basic public service. We need to take action in many areas, including postal services. We must ensure that basic public services, which are incredibly important for the functioning of society, work. It is important for everyone: individual people, disabled people, old people, businesses and the citizens of the whole country. The Left also wants us to reduce the proportion of precarious employment and the use of temporary work agencies in the post office. I'll get to the IT business. In Sweden, a high proportion of the population has digital participation compared to other countries. Those who are lagging behind are people who have disabilities, the elderly and people with immigrant backgrounds, who we need to work more with strategies around in order to get tools to participate in the democratic dialogue and be able to bring in information from society. Something that is also good in Sweden, where we are ahead, is that we have expanded the digital network more than other countries. This is largely because we have had a kind of mixed economy. We have had a publicly owned network that has been a backbone, and then we have had a free market around that can expand internet fiber and the network. This has been a favourable model which has also allowed us to expand faster than other countries. It is important that we continue to protect this model and that we do not let municipalities sell out their networks or lie on for them to do so. We will try to maintain this strategy because it has proved to be working. My colleague Håkan Svenneling will talk more about broadband deployment. He is also on the Rural Committee and will bring forward views from there. We have two questions that go into each other: the post office and IT. We expand the IT business in society, and then the mail volume decreases. It is important that we make a smooth transition between these two modes of transport. Otherwise, it affects citizens of society, and we do not get a functioning, basic public service that we need. It is very important that we have a holistic approach to this.
i-KwhWNPyyVu4CbTcsyeJ5nX	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emma Wallrup, for an interesting speech. Emma Wallrup spent most of her time on postal issues, which are very interesting. I think that Emma Wallrup and I have a slightly different ideological approach to how the postal market should work. At least previous debates have shown that. What Emma Wallrup describes as effective measures is first and foremost the leadership of Postnord. I fully agree with that. It is an important leadership issue when you need to make this transition to a new kind of market. She also mentions postboxes. Of course there's a point to that. You can discuss exactly how this is done. The price tariffs, which according to the Postal Act must be public in order for Postnord not to be able to use its size as a former monopolist to dump prices and thus maneuver out any other parcel suppliers and in principle return to a monopoly position, are also against Emma Wallrup. She also turns to the yield requirement, which Postnord has in common with all other state-owned companies. It is a demand for returns that is not only about the state's profits, but also about the conditions for investing in future transformations. She's talking about a smooth transition. Overall, it feels as if Emma Wallrup wants to return to some form of monopoly position for the post office and that the other alternatives in the postal market, which come with important complements especially in the parcel market, where Postnord has its absolutely largest expansion, should be further limited. Have I understood this correctly, and how does Emma Wallrup think it will solve the long-term challenges?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-559	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with the issue of leadership. I believe that leadership is based on democracy if it is to be a good leadership. Democracy is important, partly in itself, partly in order to know how to design an activity in which everyone involved comes to the fore. You get a functional activity. Unfortunately, in recent years we have had a business model that has not been particularly democratic but highly top-down. There has been a reduction in contact with the floor in many businesses. We see this both within municipalities and in public operations. Many managers change areas and do not really have knowledge of their areas and so on. Employees are also allowed to change jobs without having the right knowledge. It is a little bit of a neo-liberal model we have seen in recent years. I would like to question this model of leadership. I think that we need to start working more democratically again and have contact with those who carry out the activities in order to be able to overcome the problems, for example in relation to postal services. We have heard stories about how it certainly has not worked in that communication. Let me also refer to price tariffs. In liberalising and enabling other companies to enter the postal market, these tariffs were introduced to create some sort of equilibrium. But what we are seeing now is that things have gone the wrong way. The public service does not work, and the mail is very crowded, just as SJ is very crowded by other companies. If we are to have a society that also works for companies, so that the service itself works, we need to ensure that we have control over the one who is to carry out the community mission. As I said, what we are seeing today is that it does not work. Today, the private sector has benefited far more than the public sector and the public operators.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-564	Mr President, I would like to Everything that is liberalisation from a monopolistic market by definition favours the private alternatives more than the state. One inevitably goes from having 100 % of the market to having a market share of less than 100 %. It is difficult to advance from a 100% market share, so to speak. To that extent, I must surely give Emma Wallrup the right: yes, the private alternatives have benefited from the opening up of the market. That's hardly surprising, is it? As far as prices are concerned, we need to distinguish between apples and pears. The community mission is about the distribution of mail and also about basic parcel services. Today, the parcel market in Sweden works well compared to many other countries. There are several different players who make sure to compete with each other and keep each other on their toes. If Emma Wallrup now wants a better service to the citizens, it is important that there are alternatives to Postnord, so that they can be removed if they do not meet the standards. I find it hard to imagine a stronger driving force for a company like Postnord than being elected by those who would otherwise have used them. Pricing tariffs play an important role there. The demand for return also serves its purpose. I am also interested in the smooth transition that Emma Wallrup is talking about. Does she believe that there is reason to slow down digital development in order to save Postnord? It almost sounds like that. It would be a shame if I did. I know that there are people who have taken the concept of aggressive digitalization policies in their mouths, precisely in relation to Postnord and the decreasing volume of letters. I would rather like to acknowledge forward-looking and strong leadership in digitalisation policy. This will lead to reduced letter volumes, but we cannot stop the future because Postnord is failing.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-569	Mr President, I would like to As far as the smooth transition is concerned, I imagine that we are setting rules that will benefit the postal service a little more, such as property boxes and so on, and that perhaps we are reducing the yield requirement and increasing the resources for postal operations, simply so that we can have a postal service that works while we are expanding the IT society. Another thing that you can also capture is the parcel deliveries. Packages are more profitable as package distribution increases while mail distribution decreases. There's the money, so to speak. This can also take advantage of the post office by building the business more with packages. We could also give a community assignment when it comes to parcel delivery, for example – there is a proposal from Seko. Society has become like a cheese, I would say. It's a cheese with cavities, where all profits are taken out. It's like we're on a pretty fragile foundation and the public service is no longer working because you're supposed to pick out profits in every line. There should be companies involved everywhere that should be able to carry out activities with profit. We also see this in the mail. We see this in the agencies that are linked to the post office. We see this with regard to the transport that Postnord is buying up. There are a lot of activities on which it has simply been thumbed. We have lost quality precisely because we have gone too far in the direction of market liberalism. We could use a balance. The pendulum needs to fight back. I think almost everyone who thinks about it really realizes that now. It has gone so far that there is chaos in the post office. It's not working. You too, on the bourgeois side, must think it is very serious and think about how to ensure that the resources are sufficient to achieve the social objective of the post office.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-573	Mr President, I would like to I would like to support only reservation 1, for time-winning reasons, but I am of course in favour of all reservations on which the Liberals are present. Mr President, I would like to It is about Facebook, Twitter, electronic mailboxes, self-declaration, medical visits and medical records, elderly care and e-commerce. It is about paying bills, swisha and handling other banking matters. It's about books and magazines, self-driving cars, Facetime and Skype and entertainment. The world is tied together. The examples of what the internet and digital infrastructure can mean are only in their infancy. We are only at the beginning of digital development into the future. More and more services and experiences are being mediated through the Internet. For many, the office is now in the pocket. The phone is used for much more than making a call. But while many of us can manage most of it through a smartphone and a computer, there are, for example, entrepreneurs in the Swedish countryside who have to go 90 km to access a good enough internet connection to manage their communication with the authorities. On this we in the Transport Committee could hear during the public hearing that we had. These were concrete examples of what challenges actually exist. The electronic highways, which many of us take for granted, are sometimes hardly a path in some places. The question is whether everyone can be on the train into the future. Mr President, I would like to At the committee's open session, on 2 February, on the IT structure, it became clear that there is more to be done. Given that the importance of the infrastructure has also been addressed by the Transport Committee's working group on research issues, it is clear that there are challenges. In a report, the working group notes that the availability of high-speed broadband is good in Sweden compared to other countries and that the rapid expansion makes the coverage and capacity increasingly better. However, it is also noted that the differences within the country are large and that consumers still testify to the fact that calling and surfing is not working well in many places. In addition, users' needs and demands are changing very quickly. More broadband is needed to access the services. Will the infrastructure currently planned meet the needs and user habits of the future? The IT of the future will be characterised by constant connectivity. Users will both produce and want access to lots of information. It places demands on capacity. The report, produced by the research group, also states that Sweden has set ambitious targets for access to IT and quality of IT infrastructure. However, it is not self-evident that the objectives of the future IT infrastructure are sufficiently high. Research shows links between access to broadband and economic growth. The potential benefits are therefore very high in the long term. On the basis of the results of the study, the Committee on Transport and Tourism therefore stresses in particular the need for access to high-speed broadband throughout the country. But then it gets a little weird. The Government decided in October 2016 that the 700-megahertz band will be available for licensed terrestrial broadcasting until 31 May 2018. This, of course, brought consequences. This also means that the previous decision to release frequency space for other uses no longer applies. As a result, PTS decided to suspend the auction process – the auction should have started on 1 December 2016. However, according to the majority of the committees, the mobile networks in the 700-megahertz band will be able to play a very important role in access to high-speed wireless broadband connections. This is where it gets a little weird. It doesn't make any sense. What was the reason for not freeing up space and stopping development? No, much more needs to be done. We in the Liberals also think it is important to promote and see the opportunities for travel-free communication. We have a reservation in the report on this. The Internet creates new opportunities to work and work. I myself was able to attend a meeting with a working group in Jokkmokk. I was sitting in the Parliament's Skype Room. It's amazing. But this assumed, of course, that we had an internet connection that was capable of image transmission. There is a great potential for development. But there is sometimes resistance to development. For some, it is completely unthinkable to use new technologies for meetings. That is why we believe that we need an action plan for travel-free communication. There's a need for fresh thinking. It's about being able to opt out of travel when they're not needed. It saves money, time and the environment. We expect such an action plan to be drawn up. As far as the transport sector is concerned, we in the Liberals also call for strategies on how development can support future service needs in transport and communication. But not everything can be solved with the digital structures. Of course, there is a great need for a functioning postal service. Not everything can be broadcast through existing digital infrastructures. It is important for the whole country that we have a functioning postal service. Mr President, I would like to Broadband is a very important part of the infrastructure in today's society. It is possible to compare with the importance of road networks and much more. We in the Liberals want to see a faster roll-out of broadband. I would like to remind you that in our draft budget we set aside more money than the government in order to speed up the roll-out of broadband. Good connectivity is important for both individuals and businesses, but it is also of great importance for regional growth. Then we are thinking again of the entrepreneur who has to travel 90 miles to manage his contacts with the authorities. Rural and sparsely populated areas must have a better IT capacity. We in the Liberals believe that Sweden should have a world-class broadband connection. Everyone should be able to be on the train into the future.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-593	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a strong IT nation, and we have been at the forefront of IT development for a long time. Several world-leading, successful companies in the industry have started their operations in Sweden. We Christian Democrats want Sweden to be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation. A prerequisite for this is the availability of robust broadband with high transmission capacity throughout the country. In today's society, access to high-speed broadband is essential for people to be able to run businesses, work and study remotely. For this reason, we Christian Democrats chose to invest an additional 50 million annually in broadband roll-out, especially in rural and rural areas, beyond what the government did in the budget bill. We also believe that the exception in the localisation principle for urban networks is an important initiative to improve broadband opportunities throughout Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats' starting point is that communications services and broadband should primarily be provided by the market but that the state should ensure good conditions and remove obstacles to development. We want to see further expansion of the IT infrastructure, both nationally and regionally, and within the framework of the rural development programme, contribute to broadband deployment in sparsely populated and rural areas. If the government is to achieve its target of 95 per cent of households having a 100 megabit broadband by 2020 and that all households and businesses will be covered by the target in 2025, a number of reforms will be required. Several of them are those that we put forward, such as speeding up the process of making the 700-megahertz band available to the market. Mr President, I would like to The expansion of Swedish broadband is an important part of Swedish infrastructure, and it only becomes more important. Nowadays, good mobile coverage and fast broadband are considered as self-evident as there are roads to run on. However, just as in the case of roads, the availability of high-quality broadband is unevenly distributed across the country. There are major gaps between urban and rural areas in access to broadband, which affect local businesses and individuals' ability to keep in touch with each other as well as the possibility of staying in the place where they grew up. Businesses and inhabitants of sparsely populated areas are currently disadvantaged because they can be geographically disconnected from their customers and contacts. The entry of the Internet has in many cases enabled them to stay as a customer no longer needs to worry about physical proximity. But this requires a well-developed broadband throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to Accessibility to mobile communications is also important. Today there are far too many white spots on the map where there is no coverage, and there is more to do to increase the availability of broadband in Sweden. One such important thing is to open up and make available the 700-megahertz band, which was used for the analogue TV range, for mobile communications. It would increase capacity throughout the country, mainly in rural areas. It is important that the frequency space is auctioned during the year. Making the 700-megahertz band available would mean that more people would have access to the internet at high speed and better coverage, not least in places where it is not possible today. When the 700-megahertz band is sold out, it is obviously important that the needs of police, defence and other blue light authorities to maintain safety, public order and health are met. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats want to emphasise the need for good social preparedness, not least in rural areas. Better security and accessibility require a well-functioning physical infrastructure as well as good communication channels. We also believe that all Swedish Radio's transmitters must maintain sufficient strength so that broadcasts can reach out throughout the country, which is an important issue for the country's emergency preparedness. Mr President, I would like to In order to ensure good access to broadband, the Local Government Act also needs to be amended. Today, it is the case that the principle of location stands in the way of rapid broadband expansion and restricts urban networks. It is not always obvious that a resident of a municipality is closest to their own municipality's broadband network. A similar adjustment has been made for energy companies and has proved effective, and it is time to make this exception to the localisation principle also for urban networks. Mr President, I would like to As a letter in the post office, they used to say something that was reliable. Today the proverb is most ironic because unfortunately the post office is less and less one can trust. Postnord is a company in crisis, and every other Swedish company lacks confidence in the company. Every fourth Swedish has experienced how mail or packages disappeared the last year. It is unacceptable for a company that has social responsibility. The crisis in Postnord must be resolved, and the government must assume its responsibilities. We in the alliance parties want to introduce joint distribution of mail and newspapers, which would improve services in rural areas. We also want to introduce a two-day basic service requirement for letter delivery, including to increase cost-effectiveness. Mr President, I would like to In an elongated, sparsely populated and at the same time high-tech country, access to broadband and good postal services are of the utmost importance. It is important for business, for prosperity and for individual citizens. With this, I call for reservations 1 and 4.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-614	Mr President, speakers and Members of Parliament! Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism on IT and postal matters. First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report. Mr President, I would like to The need for people to communicate with each other is not news, nor is it a public interest that communication works. Postal activities have been conducted more or less in government since 1636, when Queen Kristina's guardian government issued a decree on postal activities. The Swedish Post Office was thus set up. The two areas that we are dealing with today in the Committee on Transport's report are, on the one hand, IT issues and information technology, areas that breathe opportunities, challenges and confidence in the future, and, on the other hand, postal activities, which are also full of challenges, but not as positive and forward-looking. The objective of the postal sector is to provide a high-quality postal service throughout the country. Postnord, a company now jointly owned by the Danish and Swedish Governments, is also the company that has been entrusted with the provision of the universal postal service by the Swedish Post and Telecom Authority. It is the Postal Act that specifies what requirements Postnord must meet, among other things, in terms of quality and service level. The Postal Act has also been investigated, and a proposal is currently being prepared at the Ministry of Industry. The government is expected to come up with proposals for new postal legislation this spring. I believe that a change in legislation is necessary on the basis of all the changes we see in that we people in Sweden and elsewhere send everything from physical letters, while at the same time ordering more and more packages and deliveries of goods. This is not exceptional for us here in Sweden, but it is an effect of increased digitalisation where the whole of Europe and many other parts of the world see the same trends. At the same time as we have this development, we are receiving reports of a lack of quality in the existing postal service. It is not only media reporting that has increased, but also the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency has paid attention to this. Their review shows a clear deterioration in quality. There is cause for concern here, because we as citizens, people in general, must be able to rely on the functioning of social services. The management of postal activities from a citizen's perspective and a historical perspective will not in modern times go to history as a proud period, but rather is characterized by two choices that have been neither strategic nor socio-economically profitable. The first choice, Mr President, was made during the Bildt government in the 1990s. It was then decided that letters and packages were simply not a government matter, but that the Post Office should be registered and opened up to competition. After more than 350 years of government-directed activity, a bourgeois government company the Post Office. Instead of meeting the future and the challenges of the future, postal activities are exposed to competition. This is a break time. We are talking about the beginning of the 90s, when digitalisation and IT technology are really coming in, and Sweden chooses to do something completely different with people's need to communicate. Seen in the rear-view mirror, one can think about where we had been if the broadband expansion and our human need to communicate had been what had become the focus of post-postal activity instead of landing where it landed, in competition. Other competing companies were allowed to go in and pick the raisins out of the cake, which meant that there were no resources to ensure that we got the public IT infrastructure that we could have. If we had, we would not have had to have the discussion on how to make the resources enough, how to get people together to organise themselves so that we can have broadband expansion across the country and reach all the way. If we'd been wise by then, we'd have made it a hundred percent a long time ago. Not that I think we can turn the clock back, but this idea is undeniably interesting. The second choice, Mr President, was when the Reinfeldt Government, with the then Minister for Economic Affairs and the Centre Party leader, carried out the merger with the Danish post and formed Postnord. Sweden currently owns 60 per cent of the shares and Denmark 40 per cent. However, the Board representation is evenly distributed between Sweden and Denmark. The bourgeois government submitted a bill to the Riksdag in 2008. It analysed Post Danmark's letter volumes. It spanned from 2008, i.e. the same year that the bill was submitted to the Swedish Parliament, until 2010. It is therefore a rather short period on which the analysis of letter volumes is based. It is quite remarkable in itself that it was not done with a slightly longer perspective than three years. The analysis was based on the fact that the letter volumes in Denmark would fall by 4 – 5 percent per year. The real volume drop became a completely different one. In the first year, the analysis by the then government was correct, and the letters fell by 4.5 percent. But in 2009 they fell by 9% and in 2010 by 10%. And this is how it has looked; it has continued to fall. Last year, 2016, was the first year Postnord reported real loss. But the Danish part of Postnord has shown strong negative results since 2012. Since the merger, which was decided in the Swedish Parliament in 2008 and was carried out in 2009, the accumulated profit for the Swedish part, which has never been loss-making during this period, has been SEK 6.2 billion and the accumulated loss for Denmark has been SEK 1.9 billion. Since then, a great deal has happened. Denmark has not only increased its postage considerably, which has led to fewer and fewer letters being sent. It has also had a rather offensive digitisation agenda and has, among other things, legislated for all communication between the public sector and citizens to take place digitally. This, of course, has led the private sector to follow suit. Denmark is today the country in the world where the volume of letters drops fastest. That the Danish state deceived the shirt of a bourgeois Swedish government I will leave unsaid, but I can note that the basis on which the Riksdag made decisions was not sufficient and that we shall continue to be very worried about the development of Postnord. Postnord's letter business is an industry in sharp change. Of course, cuts, major reorganisations and technological developments have had consequences. More and more mail comes ready-sorted to the postmen's offices. After many years of cutbacks, postmen have not only become considerably older but are also expected to distribute the largest part of the working day. Lack of work environment, wear and tear injuries and sick leave do not come as an unexpected consequence. However, not everything is rice in Postnord. They have actually worked quite hard to achieve profitability, and this is visible in the Swedish business. It should be added that despite the quality deficiencies that have been achieved, the target set by the legislation is to deliver 85% on time. I would also like to emphasise that Postnord has taken seriously the reports on poor working conditions of some of the company's transport service providers. It has strengthened its work and programme on the purchase of transport. I think that's great, because the state must always be able to guarantee and ensure the fair conditions of all its suppliers. We Social Democrats will follow this issue very closely. Mr President, I would like to Communication, whether digital or analogue, is a human need and deeply etched in public consciousness – both in the past and now. The development of our opportunities to communicate with each other has always been a public matter. Letters, telecommunications and data communications are of general social interest. However, the future does not seem as clear. It will probably be a little more about things that communicate with each other. Then I don't think primarily of the watch or the thing that I normally have on my arm, which not only allows me to be constantly connected but also supports me to movement. It confirms when I have passed the given goal, tells me to stand up when I have been sitting too long or to breathe if my pulse rushes away without moving. No, I am thinking primarily of how the IT infrastructure enables completely new ways of organising society. Autonomous cars, public transport on order, personal drones that allow passengers to hover above the car traffic. I am also thinking of a future in which, with the help of technology, we can live more sustainably, more consciously and more effectively. It is not easy to imagine, but we have to be aware that without a digital infrastructure that is in line, Sweden will quickly collapse from the prominent position that we have had for a long time. It is therefore gratifying that the government presented and adopted a new broadband strategy in December. Of course, the previous target of 90% raised more questions than answers. Who were those 10 per cent who would not receive broadband? The new goal is for the whole of Sweden to have access to high-speed broadband by 2025. We are becoming increasingly dependent on a functioning IT infrastructure, and nothing indicates that it will change. In committee, we have focused a great deal on these issues, not least in the IT infrastructure report – today and in the future. Actually, it's all about the ambition that the whole country should be able to be connected. It requires priorities and resources. It is an absolute prerequisite for people to be able to organise their lives today, whether in sparsely populated areas or in urban areas. The whole country must be able to live. This is why the government's overall work on the possibilities of digitalisation is urgent. Work on employment, growth, innovation, improved welfare services and smart cities is in full swing and is a prerequisite for our country's future competitiveness. In this context, I am very much looking forward to the government presenting its digitalisation strategy this spring. Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the floor and ask you again to approve the committee's proposal.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-642	Mr President, I would like to I thank Teres Lindberg for an interesting speech that took its starting point in a history description of the Post Office, Posten and Postnord. However, I noted few suggestions on how to resolve this, other than monitoring the issue. Perhaps Teres Lindberg would like to add what concrete measures it intends to take to sort out the situation with Postnord and how it looks at the postal market in the future. Teres Lindberg's speech shows a romanticisation of the time with the Swedish Post Office's monopoly, when the Swedish Post Office took responsibility for everything. When there was no competition, everything was better, and Carl Bildt was reckless in the mail. There is also a clear signal towards the Danish Digital Agenda. Teres Lindberg describes it as offensive while Postnord describes it as aggressive. It is described as a major problem when you go in for greater digitalisation of our government communications and communication between private companies, public authorities and private individuals. It does not bode well for the government's digital agenda if it is painted as a problem in Parliament's Chamber. In the past, I called for leadership in digitalisation policy and gladly an offensive agenda to achieve the goal of a more digitised Sweden. It does not detract from the need for basic public services in the field of postal services. However, clearly the need for postal services is reduced when digitalisation comes, and then we have to face up to this development. But Teres Lindberg almost describes this as a social problem.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-646	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Ottoson! Right now, an analysis of the merger of Postnord at the Ministry of Enterprise is underway. The dilemma, however, is not. It is never possible to turn the clock back, whether it is a matter of previous competitive conditions or rather foolhardy business where the Swedish taxpayers end up with their beards in the mailbox. So far we have lost 2 billion on the total, and if we had not had the Danish part, the result would have been much better. I rather did a rhetorical look back at where we would have been if we hadn't handled things according to bourgeois ideological dogmatism. I heard that in his speech Erik Ottoson highlighted leadership. It is as usual: If you have no policy of your own to come up with, you criticise the leadership. Right now, the government is delivering. In December came a new broadband strategy that raises the ambitions and objectives for more people in our country to have access to fast and good broadband. It is, of course, a prerequisite for our country to continue to compete in the future. In the spring there will also be a digitisation strategy. I am not worried at all, because we have a good policy in which we are moving forward much more than the previous government did. It is easy to stand here and criticise the leadership, but the result of the leadership that was during the previous two terms of office led rather to problems for Swedish taxpayers as well as high costs and reduced revenues.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-652	Mr President, I would like to Teres Lindberg can at a later time describe how the policy that made Sweden a leading country that was at the top of several rankings of digitalisation and broadband expansion was harmful to Sweden as a digital nation. It is interesting to hear Teres Lindberg criticise the Danish offensive digital agenda. It has made Denmark have a much more offensive approach to digitalisation of the public sector. Teres Lindberg describes this as a major problem.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-655	I am very keen to see major reforms in the Postnord that are facing this development, but we cannot back down into the future. I agree with Teres Lindberg that it is important to have a well-functioning postal service even in a situation where we have a decreasing volume of letters on the market. I look forward to the digitisation plan. But the problem is that if you take the approach that Denmark has had a far too offensive approach, I get a little worried about what it is that will come if we do not dare to go as hard on. Then we will fall behind countries such as Denmark. We must dare to be so offensive, aggressive, forward-looking, or how one chooses to describe it. With regard to the history description, I should remind you that when this government took office, the government's representatives in this area were very pleased with the policy pursued by the Alliance. The then government expressed it in terms of not seeing any immediate reason to make any major changes there and then because politics had been so successful and well-designed. Maybe it's something to keep in mind.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-658	Mr President, I would like to Erik Ottoson puts words in my mouth and says that I have criticised Denmark's offensive digitalisation strategy. I didn't do that at all. I think they've done a pretty good job. What I have criticised is the merger between the Swedish and Danish posts and the formation of Postnord, which among other things your party was behind. It has led to high costs for Swedish taxpayers and major problems for postal operations. I will continue to criticise it, and I think that those who represented that line should think about how good that deal really was. It is Ardalan Shekarabi who has been commissioned to work with the digitalisation of the public sector, and parts of it will of course be included in the digitalisation strategy. These questions have been put at the Ministry of Finance, which is a good thing. Because just like when we look at the results of the merger and Postnord, it is the money that speaks. That's why it's a smart move of the government to put it at the Ministry of Finance. I look forward to what you come up with, because we're not really on here. Erik Ottoson highlights what the Social Democrats have played in terms of Sweden's position in cyber-mature and cyber-expansion. After all, it is Social Democratic governments that are behind all this. It may have been luck with the home-pc reform, which has made the Swedish people have a computer maturity that exceeds all other peoples in the world, but it was a Social Democratic government that was behind it.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-663	Mr President, I would like to I have signed up for this debate as the rural spokesperson of the Left Party and because I have been on the Parliamentary Rural Committee. I shall begin by calling for the Left Party's reservation, No 13, on postal services throughout the country. I think that the government's new broadband strategy, launched before Christmas, is very good. The old one needed to be updated, but at the same time it has proved effective in pointing out the direction so that market players, municipal networks and policies can move in a common direction. Sweden needed a new target that points out the entire population, so that one does not wonder how the last ten percent will turn out. This was something that the Left Party raised already in 2015, which the Rural Committee picked up and proposed in spring 2016 and which now also the government has made its goal through the new broadband strategy. This is very welcome for Sweden's rural areas. It feels very good to be able to remove this requirement in this year's rural movement from us and to check it out and feel: Good, this is done – now we can work forward. At the same time, it has been a good thing that economic aid has improved. In the budget that Parliament passed last autumn, there is more money: SEK 1 billion more for broadband. It is a broadband billion that can be very useful in rural areas. This money needs to be directed specifically at the 23 municipalities that, according to the Rural Committee, face extra major challenges. This allows the expansion in Sweden's rural areas to continue at a high rate. But the government needs to keep an eye out so that the money goes to the areas that need it most. This has not been the case all along, and a lot of regulatory changes and red tape have caused too many village and fibre associations to expand their areas. Something that I want to welcome in the broadband strategy is the target of mobile coverage, although it is a bit diffuse how seventeen it should be measured. For broadband and mobile telephony goes hand in hand. When the broadband network is expanded, the capacity of mobile towers can be improved. It is therefore particularly important that the switch-off of the copper network is linked to the roll-out of the broadband network. Just as the broadband strategy needed to be updated, what is called the universal service, the so-called SOT level, needs to be increased. Today we have an SOT level of 1 megabit, which was set in 2003, 14 years ago, when our digitization minister Peter Eriksson was still municipal councillor in Kalix. It is therefore important that the Government formulate the assignment to PTS as soon as possible. Yesterday, when I debated the issue with Peter Eriksson in an interpellation debate, he promised that decisions would come tomorrow. That's very good. It is important that the assignment is not too long but that PTS is given rather short time, so that they have to work effectively and so that the government can make decisions already this year. I hope so. Then we'll have a development where Telia can't shut down the telecommunications network at the raging speed they're doing today. I printed out all pages with places where Telia will turn off the lights, and it was 17 pages in total – five meters long. The Left Party intends to continue pushing the government into the future. Today, the state's own broadband ownership is spread out to various actors, especially at Trafikverket and Svenska Kraftnät. The government previously appointed an investigator, who came to conclusions a year ago. It would be good if the government went ahead with some of these proposals. But it would also be good to consider whether the state's own holdings should be so spread out or whether it should be brought together in an individual state-owned company. Yesterday, when I and the Minister for Digitalization debated the switch-off of the copper network, we talked about the fact that this issue is not entirely new. The broadband strategy adopted by the government means that the whole country will receive broadband by 2025. Then the question of the copper grid comes in another light. We are in a shift in technology where we are going to move from copper to fibre networks – from grids with resistance and heat losses to the speed of light. We must understand that many are affected – 90 municipalities. There are an incredible number of people involved, and that is why we must ensure that this is done in the right way. I won't say it's wrong to shut down the copper grid. In Daniel Bäckström's municipality of residence, Säffle, where almost everyone has access to broadband, it may be right to shut down the copper network, but that is not how it looks in many places. Instead, you are in a shift where you go from copper networks to a mobile solution and then to fiber within a year. We can't have that. I have therefore proposed two different options for how it should be done. One is that the government controls the company in which you are a shareholder, namely Telia, so that the extinguishing is done better. Telia itself rejects this idea as they find it too complicated to keep track of all the construction that is going on. The Minister said in his reply that it is not possible to determine in detail how the company operates. The second option is to go ahead with legislation and raise the SOT level, which is a minimum requirement for all to be covered. This is something that the Rural Committee, on which I have been sitting, has proposed. I very much hope that this can be a good way to go – that it is clearly raised so that everyone gets a higher level than 1 megabit as a basic level. In the TV report that was in Aktuellt last week and that both I and the Minister for Digitalization participated in, a third way was highlighted, namely Norway. The Norwegian Government, together with Telenor, has decided not to turn off the copper network if there is no broadband up to households. This would also be a possible route in Sweden, and I think the government should look at such a solution. There are also EU targets that say that by 2020 everyone in Europe should have access to the internet at a speed of 30 megabits. In spite of our vast area, Sweden could become the first country in Europe to achieve this objective. This would be good for our competitiveness and would lead to a positive development throughout Sweden. But political will and action are needed.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-683	Mr President, I would like to In many ways, this is an important debate for me today – important not least because the young man who made sure that, as a mother, for the first time I got acquainted with the Swedish preschool is listening and will judge my mother after this debate. Today, we are debating preschools in Parliament's Chamber and spending some time on the learning and development of our smallest children. Swedish preschools are in most respects world leaders but also face a number of problems and challenges. This is a motion report – good and important so – but a government bill shines with its absence, despite the fact that there is much that needs focus. Propositions from the government are a way of measuring interest and commitment from the government, but we unfortunately note that it is zero in the bill list. Although the days when I personally had to pick up, leave and be an almost daily part of Swedish preschool are unfortunately over, we Moderates do not intend to lose focus when it comes to Swedish preschool. We know how important it is to a young child and how crucial it is for further development. We need more focus on preschool. Mr President, I would like to We are at a time when knowledge is as much a fresh product as a competitive commodity, while global competition and challenges are increasing as a result of generational change, digitalisation and automation. This places increasing demands on an education system that can better equip our children and students for tomorrow's knowledge labour market. The role of preschool in this challenge is far greater than one might think. Step by step the preschool is now beginning to live up to its name for-school, and the focus is on pedagogy, learning and care. The Alliance government strengthened the role of preschool by making it its own form of school. With purposeful efforts, quality was strengthened, not least educationally. Preschools today have a new curriculum that gives children an early opportunity to familiarise themselves with science and technology based on their prerequisites. Precisely this with science and technology is extremely important, but evaluations show that this is something that very much changes in Sweden's preschools. This also needs more focus. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's preschool is not just something we should be proud of. Our preschool is also directly necessary to strengthen Sweden as a global knowledge nation. Not least the PISA survey shows that students who have attended preschool perform better during their further schooling. For the Moderates, therefore, preschool is an obvious cornerstone of our policy. I'm proud and happy about that. But a prerequisite for preschool with its new curriculum to reach its full potential is a good supply of educated preschool teachers. Here, unfortunately, developments around the country are beginning to look almost catastrophic. This was shown not least by the Swedish Public Employment Service's report on the shortage professions that came the other week. The Public Employment Service classifies the lack of preschool teachers as a mere five on a five-degree scale. This is a development that risks overturning the potential of the entire preschool, our children's learning in school and ultimately our ability to compete with knowledge. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates welcome the fact that the government is increasing the number of places in pre-school education. That is something we support. At the same time, however, I note that the Social Democrats in the government and the Social Democrats in Stockholm City Hall seem to have completely contradictory priorities for preschool. In the same breath as the Social Democrats in the government decide on new national benchmarks in an attempt to reduce the size of children's groups, the Social Democrats in Stockholm, on the contrary, do so by their decision to introduce the right to full-time also for children of parental leave. This is in a situation where there is already a shortage of premises and where hundreds of preschool teachers need to be employed in Stockholm every year. It is a group that we know there is a great lack of. The fact that Stockholm also has one of the lowest levels of qualified preschool teachers in Sweden does not seem to worry the Social Democrats in Stockholm either. I and many with me ask ourselves how this equation should go together. The only reasonable interpretation is that the Social Democrats in Stockholm seem to prioritise anything but a high-quality preschool and that they have completely different priorities than giving our children a good-quality preschool time. I have visited many preschools in Stockholm. Most have been excellent preschools with good activities. However, I have also visited preschools where a preschool teacher was solely responsible for the educational activities of two departments. I think most people understand the problem. The availability of preschool teachers varies greatly across the country; that should be borne in mind. All in all, however, the availability of preschool teachers should be a parameter to take into account; otherwise, we risk undermining the activities, not getting what they are entitled to, and pre-schoolers will stop and the situation will get worse. In several debates on preschool in this House, I have highlighted the need to strengthen the skills of pre-schoolers, because it so clearly reflects the quality of our preschools. In last year's debate, I made a massive criticism of the government stopping the skills development initiative The Preschool Lift. Then my red-green opponents accused me of lying on wrong grounds. The regulatory letter said very clearly that there would be zero SEK in skills development money for the pre-colleagues. But it was denied in this pulpit. I can see today that the government has made a turnaround and is once again investing in the skills development of pre-colleagues. We welcome this by Moderates, and we are happy, for the sake of the children and for the benefit of the forecolators, that the government listened to us and to the business. Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be a country that can and should compete with knowledge. That's why the Moderates' top priority is to give all children a really good start in life. Therefore, it is also a matter of course for us to continue to tackle challenges, shortcomings and problems in today's preschool, but also to give preschool better opportunities to develop. We therefore want to reduce the size of children's groups, improve the transition between pre-school and pre-school classes, continue to strengthen the skills of pre-school managers and, not least, set up career positions in preschool as well. We also need to ensure the supervision of all preschools, so that it is done in an equivalent way. Here, not least, the Swedish School Inspectorate's reviews have revealed major shortcomings with today's system, where municipal authorities review independent preschools. We Moderates want to change this so that a better quality monitoring of all our preschools takes place. Preschools lay the foundation for lifelong learning and for Sweden's future opportunities to compete with knowledge. For us Moderates, therefore, pre-school is an important cornerstone of the education chain that needs to be consolidated and further developed. I am therefore concerned about this government's lack of interest in the further development of preschool. With the alarming and increasingly obvious shortage of preschool teachers, the government's benchmarks risk becoming nothing more than a shelf heater without effect in preschools. Forecols are an invaluable resource, and in order for us to succeed in our high goals of children's learning and development, they must become more numerous. But they must also have good conditions for competence development, good opportunities for planning and follow-up and have children's groups where they can see each child and generally have a working environment that promotes the development of Swedish preschools. Mr President, I would like to Finally, our children are and remain priority 1. I hope that we will be bold enough to approach the major challenges of pre-school education and put these issues higher on the political agenda. In fact, it requires more of the current government. We Moderates promise to do our part. I am in favour of reservation 1, but we naturally support all our proposals and reservations.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-708	Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of reservations 6 and 10, but we naturally support the rest of our motions and reservations. I'll talk about preschool in general. The business will be based on the free game. What distinguishes a professional from an amateur is that the professional preschool teacher leaves the children alone when they are left alone. I saw an article in South Sweden a couple of weeks ago. There two writers argued that the Swedish School Inspectorate wants to limit the free play and govern with a gender perspective. We find this totally unacceptable. If what is said in the article, which is very much in favour, is true, it is the School Inspectorate who should have the back homework. Pre-school activities should of course also be included, such as language games and motor games. I guess we all agree on that. Now I've said it once and for all. Demand for childcare during uncomfortable times has increased in Sweden. In total, approximately 800 000 people work in Sweden more than half of their working hours outside normal office hours. Despite the increasing demand for childcare during uncomfortable times, and despite the fact that so many people work outside office hours, night-open preschools today exist in only 70 per cent of municipalities. The number of municipalities offering night ice certainly seems to be increasing, but we want to push for the number of night ices to be further increased. We want the state to contribute to an earmarked appropriation for childcare on inconvenient working hours and to introduce legislation that obliges all municipalities to provide night-open preschools, if there is reasonable demand. Mr President, I would like to Already today, it is written in the School Act that the principals who conduct educational activities in a preschool are to employ trained preschool teachers. Nevertheless, preschools do not have trained preschool teachers. This is not acceptable. We would like to require the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish Agency for Education to draw up national guidelines requiring municipalities to impose sanctions on pre-schools that do not comply with the school law's rules on competence. The curriculum for preschool is basically good. However, there is an obvious shortage in the curriculum. Page 4 states: No child should be discriminated against on grounds of sex, ethnicity, religion or other belief, sexual orientation of any relative, disability or other abusive treatment. The Swedish Democrats see it as a matter of course that no child should be subjected to bullying or insulting treatment in the Swedish preschool. This should, of course, apply to all forms of discrimination. To leave out political discrimination today, because of family members, shows that this form of discrimination is not taken seriously. Political discrimination is perhaps the most common form of discrimination that pupils are exposed to in primary school – what it is like in preschool we have no idea – because of what their parents do. Therefore, this form of discrimination should be included in the curriculum together with the other grounds for discrimination. When the school units buy food for their preschools, they indirectly affect both the environment and the landscape. If we buy locally produced, or at least Swedish raw materials, we contribute to open landscapes, Swedish agriculture with strict animal welfare rules and food security. It is also important that our growing race receives nutritious food that does not contain too much poison. Of course, we cannot order municipalities and schools to procure locally produced products – not like the school system today, and not with the European rules under which we are all subject. On the other hand, we Swedish democrats want to introduce a stimulus grant for the conversion of reception kitchens to cooking kitchens. That is an important step in this. Furthermore, we think something should be done about Swedish food being more expensive because of our stricter animal welfare legislation, but this is perhaps not a matter for this committee. Finally, Mr President, everyone with pre-school children is sure to recognise a daily life that is regularly lined with colds and influences. Preschool, where many children are gathered on a small area, is a known risk zone for the spread of infection. This is a fairly large problem and in some way we must try to curb the spread of infection in the country's preschools. Just as it is obvious that preschools do not accept that sick children are allowed to participate in the activities, for us it is self-evident that children should not have to be in a preschool with sick educators. The Swedish Democrats propose that the Karen's Day for staff in the Swedish preschool be removed. We have also budgeted for this in our budget.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-721	Mr President, I would like to Starting preschool, whether a child is one, two, three, four or five years of age, is an amazing event not only in the child's life but also in the parent's life. I am proud of the Swedish preschool, because it is truly world class. We often discuss the challenges that exist, and we will. But sometimes we may also have to stop and think about what activities we have and what fantastic opportunities it offers regardless of whether you choose an independent preschool or a municipal school and whether you choose educational care or any other solution that suits the individual child best. The very report that we are debating today may not be much new. This applies only to exercise from the general exercise time, and that is well and good. I would already like to support Amendment No 5 on behalf of the Centre Party, but of course we also support our other reservations. When you read what the Swedish National Agency for Education writes about the activities, it is fantastic reading when it comes to the goals of the preschool. I think of the second and third sentence: Preschool should be fun, safe and educational for all children. You should have the opportunity to learn and develop by playing, creating and exploring on your own, in groups and together with adults. Providing children with care and safety is an important task for preschool. It is amazing that we have this opportunity in our country, and it is also important that we already in preschool provide a level playing field for all children to develop well. Mr President, I would like to I would like to highlight what is stated in the Center Party's reservation No 5, which is that all preschools should be examined in the same way. Today, the municipal preschools are examined by the Swedish School Inspectorate, while the independent ones are examined by the municipalities. The Swedish School Inspectorate then examines whether the municipalities are reviewing independent schools correctly. It feels like you're looking at once for nothing. That is why we have highlighted the importance of a level playing field. It was something that the Alliance Government had as a salute when it comes to various types of school issues, and I very much hope that it is also important for the government we have right now. The question is also relevant for another reason. There is currently an investigation that really threatens all the independent preschools around Sweden. It's usually a little sloppy called the Reepalu investigation. There are a few days left to submit referrals. The Competition Authority, the authority to curb unhealthy business activities, stated the other day that there is no need for profit restrictions because there are no significant over-profits in welfare services. One might consider why different facts — or should one call it alternative facts — are spread in this way. A while ago we had the opportunity to listen to Solveig Sunnebo in the first chamber of Parliament. She runs Helianthus preschools, and in various ways she raised the major obstacles that the investigation would entail. The debate often paints some kind of demonic image of various forms of large corporations that earn money from our children. Solveig expresses its great commitment to all children's development with the entrepreneurial expressions associated with having buses that give all children the opportunity to visit completely elsewhere. I am surprised by the attitude of the government, and I am curious as to what the representatives of the Social Democrats and the Green Party would say about this particular type of preschool, which itself says would lead to them closing down. Entrepreneurs like Solveig really show that you can provide opportunities for all children with a special preschool that is fun, safe and educational. Ardalan Shekarabi said yesterday, I think it was, after having had some meeting: It's the school profits we focus on – so also the preschools. This is where we see the biggest problem. According to Aftonbladet, he continues: It is important to remember that it is in the school area that we stand out compared to all other comparable countries. It is clear that in Sweden we differ in different ways. At the same time, however, this offers fantastic opportunities. It has been a concern that has been quite broad to push into schools alone, and this is now becoming true to reality. I would be pleased if the Green Party and the Social Democrats could give some answers to this in any way. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by highlighting the important people who work in preschool. Preschool teachers, child care workers and pre-school managers are, of course, crucial to the good work. It is gratifying that the interest in education has increased and that more people want to start pre-school education. It is important to work with skills development and career services, with which the Alliance Government started. I hope that we will also see proposals from the current government in this area.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-735	Mr President, I would like to The major reform of the education system, which began in the 1950s, meant raising the general level of knowledge and a view on learning as a dynamic and workable process guided by pedagogical science and the development of school practice. A systematic interaction between school and parents was developed. The school's learning process would equalise socio-economicly based knowledge differences. It would also be a forum for training in a democratic spirit. These different learning and education objectives would be reinforced by the establishment of general preschools. As has been said before and as we have mentioned in several debates, Swedish preschool is a world-class preschool and something we should be proud of. The purposeful focus on preschools in Sweden has made it internationally unique in terms of accessibility, quality and educational development. However, more targeted efforts are needed to develop skills and research opportunities for all professions in preschool, for example, if the pedagogical development of preschool is to continue. The Left Party believes that preschool is a right and an opportunity for all children. Access and the right to good and flexible childcare have long been and still remain a feminist issue. More and more people are working on awkward working hours. This increases the need for access to childcare in the evenings, nights and weekends. Those most in need of this care are the children of single parents, often women, employed in the same public sector that is responsible for childcare. Municipalities should therefore be obliged to offer preschool and leisure activities during inconvenient working hours if there are children in need of care. Of course, it is also important to mention the employees' conditions – those who day in and day out struggle to get our amazing preschool to go around. There, the Left Party has in various ways proposed improvements at both municipal and national level concerning the working environment, the size of children's groups, etc. It is interesting that the Center Party mentioned the profits, because a large part of my speech – as well as many other speeches – will be about precisely the pursuit of profit in welfare and, not least, in preschool. In order to offer all children preschool places, the municipality must be able to plan when, where and if new preschools are to be established. Under current legislation, however, a municipality is obliged to approve and pay grants to all private preschools that are judged to comply with laws and regulations, whether or not these preschools are needed. At present, it is also permitted to run preschools as a profit-making company. Municipal funding is thus partly possible to distribute as a profit to a few owners, at the expense of children's needs and the staff's conditions. However, the main difference between municipal and individual preschools is the level of education of staff. According to a report made two years ago, nearly 80 per cent of the staff of municipal preschools had a university degree, while the figure for individual preschools was about 60 per cent. These are the Swedish National Agency for Education's own statistics. The Left Party considers that the individual pre-schools to be allowed are non-profit-making. Surpluses made shall be reinvested in the business. That is why we are pleased with the investigation that has come to light, in which reality-based facts establish the problems involved in the pursuit of profits, including for preschools. Even with a new regulatory framework that ensures that pre-schools are not run for profit, the need remains for municipalities to be given better planning conditions and opportunities to make demands. We believe that the establishment of individual preschools should require an agreement with the municipality. The municipality should be given the right to decide whether the agreement is valid or not and whether it is possible to sign such an agreement. The municipality can then ensure from the outset that all preschools comply with the laws and regulations applicable to all preschool activities. The municipality would also be given the opportunity to review those people and organisations who want to start a preschool in order to prevent rogue actors. The agreements would provide for the possibility of terminating cooperation with persons and companies who, for example, have large tax debts or are convicted of crime. Unfortunately, this opportunity does not exist to this extent today. The municipality must also be able to impose additional requirements, for example that the premises should be accessible, the level of education of the staff and other quality requirements. When the Center Party raises this issue, it is interesting that, as before, it highlights enthusiasts who run good and good preschool activities. There are very different opinions as to whether these actors would be affected. However, looking at the statistics and proposals put forward in the welfare inquiry, there is no indication that such an activity could be discontinued. To somehow spread the myth that activities run by the enthusiasts would be closed down perhaps worked ten years ago. Today, however, I believe that the majority of the Swedish people know what we are after. We're looking for the prize hunt, not the small players who're there for the kids. I would now like to turn to my reservations, which include language development among children. As you know, language development is most intense in the first few years of life. For asylum seekers and new arrivals, this applies to both the mother tongue and the Swedish language. It is therefore important that children also receive native language education already in preschool. It is also important for preschool teachers to have access to skills development in language development working methods based on pre-school assignments. In strengthening mother tongue teaching, the language and educational skills of asylum seekers and new arrivals should also be taken into account. In this way, their knowledge can be used, while at the same time providing opportunities for relevant employment. However, the age at which mother tongue education is to begin is an issue that should be further investigated. Preschool is an important place for children's learning and development. Early training interventions are cost-effective, and the younger the children are when the interventions are deployed, the greater the compensatory effect they have. It is therefore important for asylum seekers and newly arrived children to have early access to preschool. There are figures showing that about half of the newly arrived children have not yet had a place in preschool, which is of course alarming. The reasons for this should be more clearly identified in order to be able to address it, and the government should investigate the reason why many asylum seekers do not either exploit or have the opportunity to place their children in preschool. I would therefore like, on behalf of the Left, to ask for the approval of Amendment No 11. I apologise for exceeding the time, Mr President. Finally, however, I would like to talk about a chapter for myself, namely the Swedish Democrats. I am not going to go into the advisability of a person who is shopping clothes on a Nazi website, defending this in national media, today having stood and talked about the rights of all children in preschool. Instead, I was going to talk about the political issues. The Swedish Democrats have a motion to reintroduce recommendations with maximum ceilings for the size of children's groups in preschool. If you had followed the work of the Swedish National Agency for Education and Education and had been reasonably well-read, you would have known that a maximum ceiling of this kind was set up a year ago. Now the Member of the Swedish Democrats is not here to respond to this, but this shows the competence of the members of the Swedish Democrats. The important question about this, however, is how SD had planned this to be arranged if their budget went through, given the tens of billions to the municipalities to be cut. In a further motion, the Swedish Democrats have written about the right to full time. Full-time is an important issue for sustainable well-being and for the nicest conditions for our heroes and heroines who daily make the welfare go together. But then the question is: why did the Swedish Democrats vote against the right to full-time work in this House? In addition, there are exercises on the extension of the open preschool and night ice. There, SD proposes that the government co-finance or contribute earmarked money to the municipalities. If I do not remember correctly, the Swedish democrats' economic-political spokesperson has been out saying that it is wrong to give money to the municipalities and that money and resources should be drawn into the municipalities. Somewhere you can make up your mind. What line do the Swedish democrats intend to take? In conclusion, it must be said that this shows that the SD is not only a fascist party but also a party with high double standards and incompetence when it comes to most issues. Is this the party with which the Moderates want to cooperate?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-766	Mr President, I would like to Pre-school activities and educational care should both stimulate children's development and learning and offer children security and care. An important Christian-Democracy principle is that not only do all people have equal value, but they are also inviolable and unique, that is, different. The equal treatment of all does not therefore mean justice. That is why we need different forms of childcare and also different forms of schooling for our children. In order for all parents to find alternatives that suit them and their children, there must therefore be a well-developed childcare facilities with different options, such as day-care centres, preschools, open preschools and free-time residences. This requires that municipalities can offer equal conditions for all approved childcare and pre-school activities and that these are of good quality. Working to reduce the size of children's groups and to improve family day-care facilities are priorities for this work. Mr President, I would like to Childcare allowance is a welcome and long-awaited reform. The reform and the rules mean that the power over childcare is being moved closer to the parents, where it should be right. Unfortunately, the regulations leave a great deal of room for municipalities to prevent activities that parents really want. Nor has the reform been properly marketed, which means that few parents are aware of the opportunities available to create alternative childcare facilities. There is a need for better information for parents about childcare allowances and how they can be used. The obligation for municipalities to provide information on childcare allowances should therefore be tightened up. The Christian Democrats also believe that the wording of the provision in the School Act that a municipality may refuse to pay childcare allowance to an individual who wishes to run a family day care centre or other educational care with reference to tangible negative consequences for the municipality's corresponding activities should be removed. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Agency for Education's parental survey shows that parents are satisfied with the staff's work and pedagogy at our preschools. Less satisfied are those with the size of the children's groups. The size of children's groups is important for child safety, development and learning. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education, both the agency's own reports and the Swedish School Inspectorate's quality review show that both staff and parents believe that children's groups are too large. Research also shows that the younger the children, the fewer children should be in the groups. Therefore, the size of the groups of children should be related to the age of children. The National Agency for Education, as we have just heard, today has a benchmark for the number of children in a children's group in preschool, but we Christian Democrats want the municipalities to impose a ceiling on the size of children's groups in preschool of up to twelve children for the ages of 1 – 3 years and a maximum of 15 children for the ages of 4 – 5 years. The Christian Democrats have long worked to reduce children's groups in preschool and financed, together with the other alliance parties, the reduction of children's groups in the state budget for 2015. Today, therefore, there is a state grant of SEK 800 million to municipalities that reduce the size of children's groups. The state grant is paid if municipalities reduce children's groups with a child, but also to municipalities that do not increase children's groups. However, there is no target for the size of children's groups, and municipalities that actually invest in small children's groups are given too little reward. The design of the current system is therefore not optimal. We propose that the distribution of the state contribution be changed by including the target of a maximum of twelve children in the groups of young children and that the municipalities that have achieved or show that they are working towards this goal should benefit from the initiative. The design should be similar to the so-called queue billions that used to exist in healthcare with a clear link to performance. Mr President, I would like to Leisure centres should stimulate children's development and learning and also offer meaningful leisure time. Having one's child in a nursing home is voluntary for parents, but it is usually a prerequisite for most people to be able to work. The size of children's groups of Fritis has also increased sharply. In the autumn of 2014, an average recreation centre group of 41.1 children consisted of about 18 children in the early 1980s. The National Agency for Education has repeatedly asked municipalities to review group size and staff density. The quality review carried out by the School Inspectorate shows that the relationship between adults and children tends to be superficial and volatile and that the safety and supervision of children in some places need to be reviewed. The Christian Democrats believe that this development is very serious. The general guidelines of the Swedish National Agency for Education therefore need to be revised so that they provide a much clearer guidance and recommendation for the municipalities. The Christian Democrats, together with the other alliance parties, have worked to reduce group sizes in leisure activities, and now we Christian Democrats are proposing that leisure activities be added SEK 250 million in 2017 to reduce the size of children's groups. Mr President, I would like to Finally, the children are the most important thing we have. Children are also different, parents are different and the decision as to what care the children should have lies with the parents, not the state. Increased choice in childcare and a continuous improvement in the quality of pre-school and leisure centres are Christian-democratic policies. Of course, I support all our reservations, but I would like to express my support for Amendment No 13.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-782	Mr President, I would like to We have had a number of important debates about school in this House. Today we are debating the report on preschool. I would therefore like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. After all, me and Camilla share the great interest in preschool based on the fact that we are currently part of it. I also have children in preschool and are there a couple of days a week and meet preschool teachers and the beautiful and good things they do. A few days ago, I was met by a white painting with red stripes. In connection to it there was a picture of each child at preschool and a digital clock. It was the result of a training effort that both the staff and the children were very proud of and above all involved in. The picture clearly illustrated when each child was to be left and picked up. It symbolized structure, participation and clarity. That is precisely what we want to be prevailing in all preschools in Sweden. Preschool is today something we all take for granted. From being a child-care activity, it is today an important part of a coherent education system. It is a form of school with a focus on pedagogy, knowledge and, above all, teaching. It is something that we all feel very much about, perhaps because it concerns our very smallest but also because we see that it affects the individual child and its conditions for future schooling. It is important to stress how important preschools are for the construction of society. It has been, and is, a prerequisite for growth, an equal labour market and lifelong learning. Preschools should stimulate children's development and learning. It should be fun, safe and educational. Children should be given the opportunity to learn and develop by playing, creating and exploring on their own, in groups and together with staff and teachers. That is why the composition and size of children's groups are very important. Children should be offered a good environment. It is about the outdoor environment, the premises and the equipment of the premises. This is important for children's development and learning. A high-quality preschool helps both to strengthen knowledge results and to create equal conditions for school start-up. We all know that children who have attended a high-quality preschool are better prepared for school, have better language skills and demonstrate greater social competence compared to children who have not participated in preschool activities. Mr President, I would like to This is particularly true of children who come from tough growing-up conditions and who have a tough socio-economic background. The compensatory role of preschools cannot be emphasized enough. It is therefore extremely important that we guarantee that all children have the right to a good preschool, educated preschool teachers, child care workers and, above all, committed staff. Mr President, I would like to The Social Democratic-led government has since it took office focused stubbornly on turning school results in Swedish schools, supporting and assisting children and young people in their learning by investing in early interventions in the form of a low-stakeholder initiative, reading-write-count guarantee, welfare billions to municipalities, special educators, national school development programmes, collaboration for best school, smaller children's groups and the distribution of other state grants. Together with the investments we have made in our budget, the government is also investing over SEK 10 billion in school this year. It is important from many perspectives. There's a lot to be proud of. That is not to say that we are satisfied. We cannot be satisfied that preschools are not equal and not equal. It is very important to create the conditions for it to be so. The initiative Collaboration for best school has thankfully been extended to include preschool class and preschool. It's a very important bet. As Daniel Riazat mentioned earlier, funds have been set aside to reduce children's groups in preschool, to provide incentives for childcare on inconvenient working hours, and a benchmark for the size of children's groups has been re-established in the Swedish National Agency for Education's General Council for Preschool. Training is ongoing for preschool managers, who have the opportunity to develop pedagogical leadership. The reading lift in preschool aims to stimulate children's language development and take advantage of children's interest in texts, pictures and written languages, something that is very important and that we can see in the PISA surveys that have been presented. The math lift in preschool is also very important. There are many things that we have delivered to our educators and to our children that must now be started in order for us to also achieve results. It is important to remind us, on the basis of the training efforts made, that the national school development programmes have now been extended to include preschools, and they are very important. It is about competence development for preschool staff to, for example, increase the knowledge when it comes to receiving and teaching children with a mother tongue other than Swedish. Much can be done, and the ambition is to constantly work to get better. I believe that this is an ambition that we in this House share in one way or another. Doesn't that make a difference? The best thing about being an educational politician and parent with children in preschool is when you see that political decisions actually come to your own. I see it when my four-year-old is on a song about every day of the week or when he counts the ladder between the door and the sledgeback. They operate in a context, and they learn distance and time. I see it when they talk about dreams and what they want to work as in the future. I also see it when children are allowed and encouraged to think freely and broadly, and when they are not caught up in structures and standards that the adult world has formed. I am addressing Robert Stenkvist of the Swedish Democrats in particular when I say this. It is important that we do not limit children's ability to think freely and dream big. Unfortunately, these standards are already being set in preschool, and we must always counter this. Mr President, I would like to I often think about what I want to achieve with my mission as an education politician, and that is quite obvious. As a social democrat, I will always safeguard what I see as a basic foundation. That is the foundation on which the children stand. We have a responsibility, and it is our duty, to constantly develop and safeguard children's right to a good schooling and future. We therefore want to continue to develop Swedish preschools. We want to contribute to more preschool teachers and nurseries being hired in preschool to have time for each child and for those children who need extra support. The teacher is incredibly important, and quality is linked to the interaction between adult and child. This is clear from the research, and it shows that the competence of the staff is crucial for the quality of preschool. I would like to conclude my speech by also directing my respect and humility to the pre-school teachers, children's nurses and other preschool staff who are struggling with the idea of whether they are up to their task and their job. They may feel that they do not have time for the children attending their preschool. I want you to stay, because you're very important. This is a responsibility that we have here, but also our principals and municipalities. Together we must work to ensure that you have a good life, a good working environment and a good opportunity to do the fantastic good work that you do every day for our children and their future.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-802	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Roza Güclü Hedin, for a committed speech about preschool! It always feels very positive to have these preschool debates with a number of different contributions that really show that there are politicians in the country who are passionate about Swedish preschools and who want to make it even better. I would also like to agree with my colleague Ulrika Carlsson's speech on the independent preschools. They are an extremely important part of Preschool Sweden. The school inspectorate conducts a pre-school survey every year. Those who came in 2016 show that staff and parents experience independent preschools at their best on all points. At the same time, we see that our red-green opponents, to whom Roza Güclü Hedin belongs, want to close thousands of preschools. With the investigation that Reepalu has now put on our table, thousands of preschools are threatened. Thousands of children risk losing the security of their preschool teachers and preschools if the investigation's proposals become a reality. My question to Roza Güclü Hedin is: do the Social Democrats really support the proposal that all this fantastic activity of so many of our preschools should be able to be closed down?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-805	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, for the question! I think that Daniel Riazat well described this as a myth that we would like to close schools on the basis of an investigation. You have to look at the purpose of the investigation. The aim is to ensure that the tax resources at our disposal go to the right things. They will go to our children and young people and to care for our elderly and sick. I do not see it as a problem to investigate how to ensure that the money and the tax funds go to what they are for. On this basis, painting a picture of us wanting to close schools will be directly wrong. I understand, however, that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, the Moderates and the Alliance are pushing the question in Parliament's Chamber when there are 40 business representatives at the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise who are lobbied daily for the issue. It's extremely tragic. There is something else I would like to mention. Another collaboration has started to pop up. I read in Today's Opinion that Stefan Jakobsson's favorite is you, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall. In view of the cooperation that exists in this House and because I am not in a position to put the question to the other alliance parties, I wonder whether this will affect your view on, for example, the area of gender equality. Do you share the school analysis that the Swedish Democrats do? How much will you cooperate in this area?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-809	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, all the positive things I could say to Roza Güclü Hedin at the outset fell quite flat. Furthermore, when she refers to Daniel Riazats's and the harsh attitude of the Left Party towards this, I am really concerned. What I'm talking about is not whether there should be good conditions for both independent and municipal preschools to run operations in the future, or whether we should make demands for responsibility to be taken and there should be long-term responsible ownership. We are in complete agreement on this. I am talking about Ilmar Reepalus's investigation, whose proposal, if it becomes a reality, will lead to the closure of hugely important activities in this country. My question was about this, and I think Roza Güclü Hedin should stick to it. It is not just me who has moderated or one of my alliance colleagues who says this. I advise Roza Güclü Hedin and her government colleagues and party colleagues to travel around and visit a number of these people, such as Helianthus preschools, and see what a fantastic activity it is. Then she can hear from them how they feel their activities will be affected if the proposal becomes a reality. It is not I who say this, but it makes thousands of traders who have a fantastic drive and who contribute in a fantastic way to Swedish preschool and school and to Swedish health care. If you let Ilmar Reepalus's proposal come true, it will be you who put the nail in the coffin for them. I ask again: are you going to implement the proposals contained in the Ilmar Reepalus investigation? Answer the question, Roza Güclü Hedin!
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-813	Mr President, I would like to Camilla Waltersson Grönvall knows that I cannot answer that question here. The investigation is not complete. The final investigation has not been presented. But I don't share the horror scenario. I agree that there are a great many good free schools and free preschools. I've been to them too. We've got a lot of people in my county. What we are opposed to is over-profits being taken out and placed in another country on an island, so that the money does not come back into the system. But I don't want to discuss it, because we have a few seconds left to talk about the important area of preschool. I would like Camilla Waltersson Grönvall to give me an answer on the basis of her speech to explain why we do not think that equivalence and school development opportunities should continue through Collaboration for the best school. It's a venture that you don't think is good at all. You don't want to bet the $600 million we've spent on Collaboration for the best school. Why don't you want to give schools the opportunity to develop, get better, take advantage of students' conditions and knowledge and secure their future schooling? ( THIRD VICE TALMANN: Roza Güclü Hedin's questions must be considered rhetorical, as Camilla Waltersson Grönvall is not entitled to any more lines. )
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-815	Madam President, I would like I was apostrophated in the speaker's chair, so I thought I'd come up with a few very short questions. At first I was going to say something about samarbe tea, which has been up today. In my world, parties cooperate with whoever they want. It's democracy. You Social Democrats are cooperating with the Left Party. One may have opinions on this, but I have never said anything about it. You cooperate with anyone you want. You get a feeling of really bad, you know, the fox. There's gonna be a little sandbox all over it. So it was this exercise about benchmarks. Yes, the government has reintroduced benchmarks. I think it was a year they were gone. Of course, I knew about it, and I did not insist on that exercise. I told you a lot earlier that we were gonna take that exercise out. That's what happened. At least I wasn't more incompetent than that. But again to what Mrs Hedin mentioned in the speaker's chair, Madam President. She talked about limiting free thought. I pointed out the free game. I can't understand how to limit the children's free mind when you let the children engage in free play. I mentioned an article published in South Sweden a couple of weeks ago. There, the Swedish School Inspectorate's criticism was that the children's thoughts were governed by some form of gender pedagogy. All gender education does not have to be bad, but here there was criticism of controlling the children's thoughts – what you criticize me for, Güclü Hedin. I wonder what you were thinking there.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-819	Madam President, I would like I think the question of cooperation is very important from several perspectives, especially because I believe that the moderate party and the Swedish Democrats do not really fully share values. That is why it is very important to me as a social democrat when cooperation between these parties is obviously conducted openly and transparently. Stefan Jakobsson has said in Dagens Opinion that you can talk, have coffee and everything you do together. I am of course worried about what Swedish school and education will look like if the cooperation is deepened. That is why I asked the question of how to cooperate with you. You have a completely different idea of what the school should look like. That's it. The Swedish Democrats want a divided school. The words of the Swedish Democrats on integration are not current and relevant in a discussion about the school. You do not want children to be integrated there. You don't want children to meet, you want to separate children and so on. It would therefore be very unfortunate if the Moderates were to cooperate with you on various points in education policy. I see this as a danger, and I am very afraid of this development within Swedish school.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-821	Madam President, I would like Roza Güclü Hedin says we want a divided school. When I was in school, we had level groupings in English, mathematics and possibly some other subject. That school was much more equal than the school we have today. That there would be a divided school, I can't understand. You have to have some adaptation to the students' conditions and abilities. As far as our integration is concerned, Roza Güclü Hedin says that we do not want to integrate students. Yes, we do, but we have another model for integration. I live in Botkyrka, and I can inform Güclü Hedin, who lives in Dalarna, that integration does not work very well in Botkyrka. We want to try something new. We want to do this to integrate students and, of course, not to counteract integration in any way. I really question the fact that there would be such different values. In fact, our school is moving towards those countries that are significantly higher than we are in the PISA studies. That's where we're going. I don't understand about the fact that we have very different values.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-823	Madam President, I would like I won't ask any further questions in this line shift, but I forgot to answer the question about the free game. Robert Stenkvist referred to research, I think it was. It's actually a little interesting. In one of your motions on gender equality and preschool, you write that Swedish school should not be a social sex experiment that follows the government's new theories year after year on why boys should not play with the color blue, or force boys to jump rope. The exercise does not use research, proven knowledge or studies, but refers to one's own opinion. It's starting to become quite common in Sweden and in the world – I won't mention any countries – that you think something and believe you own the truth. You might think that this social and gender experiment, with colors, and so on, means steering. For my part, I see it as freedom. My daughter should be able to say she wants to be a firefighter when she grows up. And then I won't tell her: No, you know what, you're gonna do something else on break and in your free time at school! This is the difference. We as adults have a huge responsibility. We shape children based on our own beliefs about what the world looks like or should look like. Again, it is a question of values. This is where it becomes so reality-averted, I would say. I very much hope that in the future, when you produce exercise, you actually look at research. We have fantastic researchers who point to this gender experiment, which the Swedish Democrats and Robert Stenkvist think is the government's invention. It's not like that. That's the reality.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-826	Rim and rams, music and play – Swedish preschool's unique pedagogy shows the way to knowledge and development. Preschool is the place where most children in our country start their journey in lifelong learning. Preschools are of great importance for children's development and provide children with a level playing field for the start of school. We know that research shows that children who have attended preschool are more successful in school than those who have not. This is particularly true of children who have parents with a short education and children who, for various reasons, live in vulnerable situations. Preschool is an important start in the Swedish school system. We can see that the children who attended preschool also perform better on tests done in grade nine. Therefore, it is important that preschool staff have good conditions for working pedagogically with the children. The government invests in smaller groups for the children and better conditions for the staff in preschool, and this is an important part of it. Preschool is offered to children under the age of six. Here it is the game and the pleasurable learning that will characterize the business, and the children's development and curiosity will be caught up in the whole business. From the year of the child's sixth birthday, it is the municipality's obligation to offer a place in preschool class. It is free of charge and must cover at least 525 hours in one school year. Since the research shows that the preschool class's pedagogy, which is based on playful learning, leads to better school results, we want to try to make preschool and preschool compulsory. Madam President, I would like The view of the children has changed tremendously during my lifetime. When I was in my early teens I had my first summer job at a swimming colony in Örby meadows outside Råå. I think there were three buses that drove around Helsingborg and the surrounding area and collected children. Those of us who were play leaders went along and literally counted the children, like Konsumhörnet five, Gustav Adolfskolan ten. Then we returned as many as we went the other way. The youngest children were three years old, and the oldest were twelve. Often there was a group of brothers and sisters. When we went to the beach, all the children were counted as we went down, and then all the children were counted as we went up. We were 13 layleaders, a manager, a deputy manager, and a financial assistant responsible for up to 180 children. Then this was a kingdom of heaven for all the children who had the opportunity to come out of the city, play, swim and get a snack with smooth buns and milk. I am pleased that progress has been made and that this type of activity has long since passed. Madam President, I would like Children's groups in preschool and preschool are sometimes too large. In order to create conditions for smaller groups of children and increased staff density, the government has introduced a grant. In 2015, 415 million were invested. In 2016, 830 million people started to invest, and each year this 830 million. At the same time, the Swedish National Agency for Education, on behalf of the Government, has developed new benchmarks for the size of children's groups in preschools. The size of children's groups in preschool is decreasing. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education, children in 2,800 preschools were allowed to attend smaller groups in the autumn of 2016. Today, therefore, we can see that the size of children's groups in preschool is decreasing, that there is an increase in staff density, that staff are trained and that there is a well-thought-out educational work that makes children fit for life. Preschools face major challenges. We are all aware of that. Equality and equality are two concepts that are incredibly important not least when we talk about preschool. Here, the attitudes that characterize the individual are established through life. Making children an equal future citizen is an important task for school educators. Children do not have the option of free choice when surrounded by gender stereotyped impressions. A work based on gender pedagogy approaches enables new options and can open children's horizons by offering alternative games, playgrounds, toys and costumes to bridge traditional notions of gender roles. The Government is actively working with efforts to support positive development. One of these is that preschool becomes part of Collaboration for best school. Collaboration for best schools is aimed at preschools in socio-economically weak areas. The Government allocates SEK 100 million to preschools in vulnerable areas. Among other things, the money will go to the development of skills and the promotion of multilingualism. Every day, tens of thousands of children go to preschool. My ambition is to make their everyday life something that gives them a better condition in life with the game as a tool for learning. For all of this to happen, we need all the great educational staff in preschool who put their entire professionalism into the business. Getting skills development for preschool staff as for everyone else is an important part of developing in the profession. For this, SEK 15 million per year will be added from 2017. In addition, SEK 6 million will be added to the Reading Lift and education for language, reading and writing developers with a focus on preschool. Having said that, I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-838	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for this speech, Elisabet Knutsson. I will again focus on something that is very close to my heart. It is all the independent preschools around our country. Of nearly 10,000 pre-school units, nearly 2,700 are independent. This means that it is a fairly significant proportion of Preschool Sweden that consists of independent preschools. They look the most varied way. They are often characterized by staff who have been employed for many years in municipal activities and who have moved on to develop something they have seen and burned for throughout their lives. On all the visits I have made, it often strikes me what a fantastic activity it is. However, in order to emphasise this further, I would like to read out a few of the figures provided by the pre-school survey. Staff in independent preschools are more satisfied with the size of children's groups than they are in municipal preschools. It is more satisfied with the number of staff, 7.6 against 6.2 in municipal. It is more satisfied with the management, 8.0 against 6.9 at municipal level, and with the development of competence, 7.2 against 6.3. This is just a few digits. I could list several for a very long time. There is no parameter where the independent preschools do not beat the municipal ones. My question to Elisabet Knutsson is: How much does the Green Party value the independent preschools? Are you going to fight and fight for them to remain in Sweden?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-844	Madam President, I would like I don't know if you've ever heard an environmental party member say that we're against non-profit cooperative activities, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall. In that case, I want you to bring it up to me. We are not at all interested in putting our feet away or putting down any business where enthusiasts are working to make a business good both for themselves and for their children or students. The problem we see is when you pick out a profit from an activity where you can feel that it is the financial gain that makes you have the business. That's when you start investing. A large company may be buying up a small business that has been run by enthusiasts. It will now be a listed company where the profits are collected and the children or business will not benefit. That is what I see as the concern and not all the 2,700 operations.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-846	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Elisabet Knutsson! That was a pretty clear answer to Sweden's independent preschool operations. What you are saying means that those who are not non-profit cooperative activities should now seriously start to feel worried, because they are not going to fight to preserve. All of the thousands of high-quality preschools – inspections that show that they have good quality and that the children are well, developing and learning – should therefore no longer exist, because they are driven by what the Green Party calls a profit. I wonder whether Elisabet Knutsson is aware that the vast majority of all profits in preschools are being reinvested in the business in a sound financial way. In fact, we have more concerns about the fact that many municipal preschools are in deficit. I would like to ask how Elisabet Knutsson views that equation. Should we not go with a certain surplus in order to be able to make the necessary investments and other things that need to be done? Will the Green Party therefore ensure that we retain non-profit cooperative activities, but others do not have to bother? Is that how we will understand your answer here today, Elisabet Knutsson?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-849	Madam President, I would like You will understand my answer as that our intention is to reinvest money in the business, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall. When you have a collective responsibility for something, it is important that it goes back to the collective. That is why we believe it is important for the money to be reinvested. So it is the excess profit that concerns us.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-850	Madam President, I would like In my generation of late seventies and early eighties, it was not as common to attend preschool as it is today. There were a lot of people at home, mostly with Mom. In fact, in 1975 only 10 percent of children between the ages of one and six were enrolled in what was then called day care. Personally, I had an amazing and wonderful daymom from the time I was nine months old, but many of my friends were at home. Nowadays, the vast majority of children attend preschool. One of the reasons why most children go to preschool today actually has to do with the mothers, because thanks to preschool, even the mothers can work. Preschool has been great for gender equality in Sweden; it's just to look at countries that don't have the same well-developed childcare facilities to see how it could have looked like here too. Many here have talked about the school's mission and what it looks like today. But it is actually also quite exciting to look at preschool history and development, not least to understand how we see and have looked at children. When the industrial revolution came, women began working outside the home, creating a need for someone else to take care of the children. As more and more people then moved into the cities, the children were no longer seen as useful but rather a problem. Above all, the middle and upper classes did not at all like all these children who drove around children in the streets more or less wind by wave. So something was started that was called early schooling for children with working parents. The focus here was on upbringing and discipline. Above all, Christians, reading, writing, and gymnastics were taught — or really only — in Christianity. Somewhat later came the children's gardens, where more practical things were done. Of course, there were different things for girls and boys, for the girls would eventually become mothers and wives and needed to learn to care for a home while the boys would learn to build and do other things considered male. Thankfully, research and development are progressing! For the really small ones there were children's cribs, which were originally intended for the poorest children. They were, in fact, mostly about oversight and ensuring that children were fed, but eventually the children of working mothers also came to be there. On the other hand, the woman who happened to be single and had children did not have many options. Those children were not welcome either in early childhood school or in the nursery; they had to fend for themselves or be placed in foster homes, which was actually the most common. It was only with day-care centres in the 1930s that all children were welcome, regardless of socio-economic background, and eventually the importance of the game began to be emphasised. Instead of teachers, the professional title became a preschool teacher, and the state became responsible instead of resting on philanthropists. In fact, the floor was already in connection with the children's study reports in 1972, and this is now, as we know, a municipal responsibility. Childcare has served a very important task as long as it has existed, but the idea nowadays is that preschool is for the children. All children, including the children of the unemployed and those on parental leave, should have the right to attend preschool, and the focus is on the child's development. There is a clear curriculum, and the supervisors go three and a half years at college. We no longer see restrictions on children because of gender, but want all children to reach as far as they can only on the basis of their conditions. Preschools are important, and this has also been heard in the debate today. Of course, the best thing would be if we could stick to talking content instead of form. Maria-Pia-Pia Karlsson is the owner of Solberga preschools, which have 50 children in line and offers the most generous opening hours in the municipality. She says that the threat of a profit limit hangs like dark clouds in the sky and that it would be much better if you could use the energy you now have to spend on this instead to expand and improve the business. I agree. I think it is good that the government has commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to monitor how state grants to reduce children's groups should be used, because there are major shortcomings here today. I will take an example from Örebro County and Kumla Municipality, which is my municipality of residence. The state grants were distributed there in order to implement the changes, and the idea was to do so in part of the municipality's preschools. However, the municipality chose to reduce children's groups in all preschools, and this was done at the same time as it had a relatively low staffing density in preschools. What happens then? What do you do when you reduce children's groups? Yes, you start more groups of children. Of course, if there are no more staff, the staffing density in the children's groups will be reduced. In some groups of children, there were only three teachers left who would distribute the entire day's work and cover each other. This is becoming terribly vulnerable, especially on small units, and that was hardly the idea. The state grants were distributed with the recommendation that municipalities should first carry out impact assessments, but this has not been done. There really is a need for a follow-up on how the efforts on the reduction of the groups of children have been carried out and what effects they have had, so I very much hope that the government will continue to follow up on this. As said today, preschool has a focus on children, but it is also about parents being able to work. Community functions should not only work in the daytime at. 8 - 16. Many people work nighttime, and therefore childcare is needed even then – so-called night ice. Another question that I touched on when I talked about Solberga preschools is the opening hours. In the municipality where Maria-Pia-Pias Solberga preschool is located, Lindesberg, those who are going to attend the first shift at the municipality's clearly largest company need to leave the children very early in order to be able to come to work at all. That's why this preschool is open from noon. 5.30 in the morning. It can't handle the municipal business of matching and never has. There simply needs to be childcare on uncomfortable working hours, and it needs to be everywhere. We have been talking about early intervention for an incredibly long time, and many who have been standing here in the speaker's chair today, like me, are teachers. We know that we already see in preschool what children it is that later will need extra support. We also know that early intervention in preschool prevents mental illness – and not least creates conditions for mental health, which is even more important. This is an area that is far too poorly explored and far too neglected. There is an enormous amount of work to be done here. I began my speech by talking about my own generation, and I mentioned my mother - day mother — my own wonderful Rut. When I was about six years old, she broke her femoral neck, and I had to go to preschool. It was a disaster I thought then. It was horrible, and I absolutely didn't want to be there. But eventually I began to enjoy myself. It was a preschool that served as both preschool and fritis, and I remained there for a number of years. Already in the 80s, preschools played an important role in seeing and discovering children who are ill or who are not well. I remember Birgitta, Lotta and the others-- all women-- with warmth. Not least, it was Aina, the head of preschool, who made a clear mark on the entire business through zero tolerance of profanity and violence, but also a great focus on outdoor activities and not least own responsibility. Today's Birgittor, Lottor and Ainor – and all their female and male colleagues – need to be able to give all children the opportunity to reach just as far as they can and want, so that they can become exactly what they want and want. In 20 to 30 years' time, it will be today's preschool children who will be standing here in the pulpit debating tomorrow's preschool.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-868	Madam President, I would like I cannot help but, as Camilla Waltersson Grönvall did, raise the issue of independent preschool activities. I represent Stockholm County, and in our county it is a large proportion of pre-school activities that are conducted by independent actors. There are already major problems in the Stockholm area to manage to find enough places in connection with where the parents work. Many children exist, and more children are. More places are needed, not fewer actors. Many heavy consultation bodies, including an audit firm, have completely rejected the proposal put forward by Reepalus's investigation. It is argued that there are no excess profits in the activities. I'd like to see a list of the companies everyone's talking about sending the money to Cayman Islands and other exotic places. I have not yet seen such a list presented. Where are those companies? I haven't met them. However, there is a long list of independent preschool actors who are extremely worried about their activities and how they will manage in the future. I think the whole discussion is absurd. That the Left Party is pushing the question, I can understand, one is against enterprise in general, but where are we going to set the limit? Should a company that builds a preschool be allowed to make a profit? If you sell toys to a preschool or other forms of playthings, should you make a profit? Where's the line? There is one important thing that Elisabet Knutsson has completely misunderstood. She's talking about how you want to limit the over-profits and withdrawals. That is not what Reepalus's proposal looks like. He wants to limit the surplus in the business, not what the owners charge. It is this surplus that can then become a buffer to accumulate in order, for example, to make large investments in its own business. Without having access to statistics – it becomes a more anecdotal evidence- my picture, after visiting preschools, becomes that the vast majority of preschool actors are small. The interesting thing is that in the vast majority of cases women run the independent preschools. In this perspective, it is particularly strange that a government that calls itself feminist risks pulling the carpet away for the female entrepreneurs. They have dared to invest in starting their own business because they have their own idea and want something other than what is possible to achieve in municipal operations. I would like to be drastic and say that pre-school activities in Stockholm County are in danger of being completely destroyed if Reepalus's proposal becomes a reality. How will the municipalities around Stockholm cope with the situation with all the children born? Just read about the crises in maternity care and how crowded it is everywhere. It is not a temporary problem with many small children in the municipalities who need preschool places. I can't see how we're going to do this if Reepalus's proposal goes through and pulls away the carpet for a large number of independent preschools in our county. It would be better if we discussed and focused on the qualities of the business. None of us want preschools that lower quality, serve water and bread and take out a lot of money. It is clear that no one wants that type of activity. We want good preschools. We can certainly discuss how to tighten up the control of these preschools, ensure that there are serious actors who conduct good activities that are good for the children. That's where our focus should be. This debate has completely edged.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-876	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus, like other alliance representatives, is careful to simply continue to spread the myth of profit-making actors in welfare. There is criticism from the National Association of Idea-borne Schools, among others, that they are sometimes lumped together with profit-making actors. That's right. It is you from the Alliance who are to blame for this debate. Every time red-green parties have debated to put an end to a prize hunt, for a better preschool and school, Moderates, center parties and other alliance members have simply chosen to spread a mythical picture of what this really is all about. You thereby clump together the enthusiasts who are out in the country and who will not be at all affected no matter what your friends in the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise say. If I had belonged to a party that had such close links with the people who own these large groups – not the small ones but the big ones – I might have chosen the same tactics as Maria Stockhaus. When 70 – 80 per cent of the Swedish population have realised what the consequences will be when children are put on the stock exchange, Sweden's second largest party should probably also do so, Maria Stockhaus, and not spread myths about passionate people who would be affected by taking up examples of a preschool here and there that would not be affected at all. I expect more of a large party like the Moderates. Even if you have a policy that puts school and preschool at a disadvantage, you are expected to present facts instead of myths.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-880	Madam President, I would like I would like to see the list of companies that send money to Cayman Islands – if we are to stick to the facts in the debate. I still think that quality should be at the centre of attention. I have met many small preschool actors who have been started – usually by a woman who wants something else. In order to protect their private finances and because they consider that it is the best form to operate in, they have a limited liability company. It's not unusual. It's very common. They will suffer. The foundation is about how much profit you get to make. There is not a lot of physical resources in a preschool, but it is the staff that is the asset. They are not in the balance sheet. It's complicated accounting. This means that, in principle, these entrepreneurs cannot make any profit at all, i.e. do not build up a buffer if they want to make long-term investments. Among other things, audit firms have criticised Mr Reepalus's proposal on this particular point. It is not possible to dismiss these facts and all the heavy consultation bodies that have completely sawed the proposal. No one wants to see rogue actors. It doesn't matter whether it's Academedia, the International English School or a small preschool player with only one preschool. There should be high quality everywhere. We need to focus on controlling quality, not chasing serious entrepreneurs. It's pointless.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-885	Madam President, I would like By this, Maria Stockhaus means that it has been a functioning system and that we have overcome the problems in certain schools or preschools that serve crisp bread and water to the children or that we have come to grips with Academedia that simply notes children on the stock exchange. This may not be considered a problem when representing a party that is so closely linked to the players who benefit from it. They are players who, as Roza Güclü Hedin said earlier, are currently investing millions to form opinion against limiting profits. On the other hand, we have the Swedish Democrats, who after a few dinners with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise changed their mind on the matter – and now also feel able to cooperate with the Moderates, as you have confirmed. I would like to say this: yes, there are actors who can be seen that this would happen – enthusiasts and individual small players. But those who are out expressing that view – as you are doing today, Maria Stockhaus – have an interest in this system continuing to exist, because the policy you represent and the policy that the Alliance represents are for the benefit of actors who are not serious. If you want to tackle the problem of rogue operators, you should have understood that the system we have had previously has not been working and that we must therefore do something about it. We have also seen that school and preschool need more resources while the huge profits are being made. It's on paper. It is not a left-wing proposal but the facts presented by Ilmar Reepalu and the investigation. Then you can either accept the facts or choose to continue spreading a myth, as you do here today.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-891	Madam President, I would like This discussion about noting children on the stock exchange – there must be some decency in the argumentation. The fact that you take note of the stock exchange means that you, as a company, are subject to transparency and control that you do not have if you are outside the stock exchange. This perspective means that rogue companies and rogue operators would hardly bother to enter the stock market. This requires a long-term thinking about quality and other things. I think that the important thing if you make a profit in a company is that you reinvest in the business or build a buffer. That does not mean that you have to spend it the same year. If you build a buffer, it's not a big problem. As far as I am aware, there is no one who can prove that there is a major problem with companies that collect money for private purposes, which use it for something else. It's very unusual. I think it is good that Daniel Riazat finally acknowledges that there are small companies run by committed people who will suffer if Reepalus's proposal becomes a reality. You said it a moment ago, Daniel Riazat, and I think it is good that for once you can admit it because you have said in the past that this type of activity will not be affected. There are many small operators operating in the form of public limited liability companies. If they cannot make profits, but are limited as Reepalu proposes, their activities are put at risk, and there are very many small players who testify to that very thing. They see that they will have to close down – or sell to one of the major players, for they will certainly find solutions even in a new system.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-897	Madam President, I would like Research is one of our main tools to increase our knowledge and understanding. The report we are about to discuss now concerns the advanced research carried out at the synchrotron lighting plant in Grenoble. It is research that gives us the opportunity to study the structures of materials and molecules. 21 countries share responsibility for this research facility. 13 countries are members and 8 countries are associated Member States. Now Russia wants to join. The Member States will then be required to give their consent. The others have done so, and now Sweden will also make such a decision. The former bourgeois government decided in June 2014 that the Protocol on the accession of the Russian Federation to the Convention should be signed subject to ratification, which took place on 23 June 2014. Today we are dealing with this report in order for Parliament to approve the previous government's decision to say yes to the Russian Federation's accession to the Convention. The Parliament shall also approve a change in the distribution of contributions to the operating costs of the plant between the Contracting Parties and a corresponding change in the state's ownership. In reality, this means slightly reduced costs for Sweden. In the bill, the government gives some reasons for bringing this matter to Parliament for approval. Russia is a major research nation, which also increases its research efforts. It is important for Sweden to expand cooperation with Russian researchers. The facility strengthens collaboration in research using synchroton light. The access of the Russian Federation to the Convention is economically beneficial given that some other States are reducing their use of the facility. It is important that the plant has a stable economy in order to maintain internationally competitive activities and research. The Education Committee unanimously shares the government's assessment and therefore proposes that the Riksdag support the bill. The Russian Federation's access to the Convention improves the conditions for valuable research cooperation between Russian and Swedish researchers. In addition, the Russian financial contribution in the form of a one-off amount and a contribution to operating costs contribute to keeping the plant up-to-date and internationally competitive, which is of great benefit to Swedish research. I note that the four bourgeois parties support the committee's opinion and therefore support the proposal but give a separate opinion. In the special opinion, the bourgeois parties refer to security policy aspects and point out that any risk of spreading strategic products must be taken into account. At the same time, I note that the bourgeois parties share the government's view that there are no such risks at present. The bourgeois parties also state that they assume that the government will continue to take a clear stand on the sanctions imposed by the EU against Russia, follow the issue and are prepared for a further change in the security situation. On this point the bourgeois parties need not be concerned. We have the same attitude on the part of the government. With this, Madam President, I support the proposal in the report.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-913	Madam President, I would like Taking part in research is really exciting even if it's about something as incomprehensible as how synchrotron light can take science to new levels. The actor Peter Seller is said to have said that future research is the art of scratching before it starts to itch, and that insight really must have been enjoyed by the scientists who started studying synchrotron light. It is an intense form of X - ray, which today can help us to study in detail everything we can put on, from concrete to wood. In addition, many new applications are emerging. Synchrotron radiation is used today, for example, to find out more about why patients with diabetes may experience problems with sensation loss in their feet. The beam itself was first discovered in space in 1957, but our Swedish Nobel Prize winner Hanne Alfvén had actually predicted that the beam existed several years earlier. I'm not going to turn my speaking time into some kind of physics lesson, but I still think it's interesting and important that we Swedish politicians are familiar with the concept of synchrotron light. MAX IV is a facility in Lund that was inaugurated last year, and it is based on this principle and uses the same technology. Today it is a world leader. The MAX IV system beam is the most brilliant and intense synchrotron beam in the world and will probably remain so for a transitional period of 10 to 15 years. Given that we have a MAX lab in Sweden, a friend of order might ask why we need to continue to support the facility in Grenoble – but we do. According to the Swedish Research Council, Swedish researchers account for as much as 70 per cent of the research time to which the Nordic membership Nordsync entitles, i.e. the time used by Nordic countries in the facility. This is true despite the fact that we have also previously had well-reputed facilities that use the technology with synchrotron light. For example, in 2014, the person responsible for the MAX lab of the time told us that there were between two and three times as many applicants as they had room for in the facilities. And then they drove the facilities around the clock six days a week, so there is a need. In addition to the need and some improvement in the expected cost situation for Sweden, we cannot ignore the fact that it is the Russian Federation that wants to buy into the synchrotron light plant in Grenoble. However, we have received assurances from the Government Office and its internal preparation, which says that it has approved the whole thing and sees no obstacles from either the Security Policy Department or the Strategic Products and Dissemination Department. Madam President, I would like We in the Alliance, that is, the Moderates, the Liberals, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats, have therefore decided to support Sweden's ratification of the Protocol on the accession of the Russian Federation to the Convention of 16 December 1988. However, we would like to refer to our specific opinion included in the report. Thomas Strand has touched on this, but I would nevertheless like to point out that, among other things, we are saying that the Alliance assumes that the government will continue to take a clear stand on the sanctions imposed by the EU against Russia, that it will follow the issue and will be prepared for the security situation to change further. Against this background and in view of the fact that it is scientific research and concerns an international research facility, the alliance parties are behind the approval by the Parliament of the protocol enabling the Russian Federation to become a partner in the synchrotron facility.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-925	Honourable Members of Parliament! On 15 February, the sad news reached us that Member of Parliament Margareta B Kjellin fell asleep after a period of illness. Today, our thoughts go to Margaretas's family — the husband Mikael, the two sons and grandchildren.
i-NeHogTn1U34SkBFKqLuMk1	She was elected to Parliament in 2006 as a member of the Moderates. During her time in the Riksdag, she was a member of the Social Committee and an alternate member of the Civil Committee, the Constitutional Committee and the Finance Committee. It was with joy and a genuine feeling of being able to change things for the better that Margareta in the Social Committee worked on her heart issues – the policy for the elderly and disabled. Margareta had long professional experience as a nurse and health teacher. She was strongly committed to older people's opportunities for a dignified life with self-determination and people with disabilities' opportunities to live like everyone else. She often talked about these issues with both humour and expertise. Margareta was also a member of the Parliament's Board of Representatives and represented her party in several government investigations, including the National Quality Plan for Elderly Care and the Report on Announcement Protection for Private Employees in Publicly Financed Activities. She was also an appreciated member of the County Administrative Board of Gävleborg's Transparency Council. But it was not just rich politics that engaged Margareta. For more than 30 years she was an active and driven leisure politician. She was a group leader for the Moderates in Hudiksvall for 15 years and served as both municipal councillor and opposition councillor. Between 2003 and 2011, she was the Federal Chairman of the Moderates of Gävleborg County. Margareta fought to the last and made great efforts both in parliament and in regional and local politics. She saw and appreciated politics as both a profession and a hobby. Margareta was a strong leader but at the same time had a warm heart. This made her extremely popular and a great role model for many. She saw people around her, was prepared to listen and was also prepared to reconsider previous positions when needed. In free moments, she enjoyed spending time with family and friends, traveling to the sun, and going out on the sea with the pleasure boat. She also enjoyed her grandchildren very much. We will miss Margareta and remember her as a committed, straight and caring person with a great social commitment. We are now honouring Margareta B Kjellin's memory with a minute's silence.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-936	Madam President, I would like This evening's first debate with the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture deals with the report Non-toxic everyday life – MJU7 – which, in addition to motions, also deals with the government's letter with the same name. Despite the fact that there are about seventy claims from the general period of exercise and twelve demands from accompanying movements, this is a policy area in which the parties are at least at an overall level quite united. Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Moderate Coalition Party and our special opinion, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservations 14 and 25, where the government should put in a slightly higher gear. Madam President, I would like As a moderate Member of Parliament, I am pleased that chemicals legislation is moving in the right direction overall. It is gratifying that the chemicals legislation is now essentially contained in common EU regulations. It ensures that national barriers do not build up between countries, and we have a more efficient internal market. In a world where our Swedish companies become more international, this is desirable. In those areas where we can deliver environmentally smart innovations with chemical-based solutions, we would like to export them. This increases our prosperity through trade as well as other countries can benefit from better goods and services. In short, higher growth and better environment go hand in hand. It is also worth recalling that chemicals legislation works best when it is common to the Union. I personally do not believe that the European Union can solve all the problems that arise in its Member States, and perhaps I do not feel that a President of the European Union who wants to give young people free interrail cards has given the right priority to the challenges of the European Union. However, I firmly believe that Europe is the best tool we have for trade with our close world. I firmly believe that a strong and united Europe is crucial to major international commitments – not least at the Paris climate summit. I am also firmly convinced that when it comes to challenges that do not concern themselves with land borders, such as the release of chemicals, the EU plays an important role. Just as we need to be clear about the pros and cons of the European Union, we should also look at the properties of chemicals. As you know, the chemical debate is dynamic. New findings, new knowledge and new innovations change the framework and content of the debate. We in the committee have probably learned a lot about the dangers of chemicals only in the last decade, for example as regards endocrine disruptors, combined effects and bioaccumulation. We have also learned a lot about how chemistry in the future will give us better batteries for our electric cars, more efficient processes in our treatment plants and more environmentally friendly bio-based plastics. Madam President, I would like Although chemicals policy is common at Union level, there are problems with Swedish interpretations of laws and regulations. This should also be said: In order to obtain reasonable results from common regulation, different countries must also have a reasonably similar interpretation and implementation of the legislation. There's a lot to do here. Last year we saw countless examples of Swedish authorities having unreasonable handling of authorisations and exemptions in the field of plant health. Plant protection products authorised by other EU countries are prohibited in Sweden. This applies not only to countries far south but also to neighbours such as Finland and Denmark. When this happens, the bones are thrown away for Swedish agriculture, while environmental problems are moved to other countries. It's a situation where everyone loses. This gold plating and the narrow interpretations it gives rise to make agriculture and plant growers in Sweden less competitive. It's the wrong way. In order to remedy this, the Swedish Board of Agriculture should take over the testing of new plant protection products. This is where the competence to make an overall assessment exists, and the Moderates develop their position in reservation 25. Madam President, I would like Swedish authorities also do a lot that is good. We Moderates have long talked about the need for Sweden to set up a knowledge portal in order for ordinary people to have somewhere to turn when they wonder about dangerous substances. The Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate has listened and posted this on its website. I checked before going to this debate what it actually says on the website. There are two fresh reviews of current substances. For example, on February 13, a report was released on prohibited substances in electric toys. Out of 60 toys, 11 did not meet the requirements, mainly those containing lead in solders. Consequently, legal proceedings are now under way. On January 23, another review was released, concluding that only one in 44 sex toys examined contains banned substances. Of these two studies, it may not be appropriate to draw too far-reaching conclusions. But both reviews are available on the website with related rather easy-to-read brochures, and that's good. You should not have to be a chemical engineer in order to be able to opt out of products containing dangerous substances. Madam President, I would like Another subject that is discussed in the media is microplastics or micrograins of plastic, perhaps mainly in matters relating to the sea and water. When Uneps Executive Director Erik Solheim visited the Environment and Agriculture Committee last winter, he said that the three main areas of the seas, CO2 emissions and the financial market should be given priority in terms of the environment, and that is something to do with it. The Baltic Sea is a sick inland sea. The marine balance objective is moving away from us, and if nothing is done, we will have more plastic than fish in the oceans by 2050. The need for reform is therefore quite great. The government has also responded to the problem of microplastics in the seas and watercourses in the letter that the report deals with. On the reform side, the government has taken some initiatives to ban micrograins of plastic in skin care products that are rinsed off. That may be a good thing, but it's a small suggestion. Swedish market participants will have substituted micrograins of plastic in skin care products that are rinsed off before the ban enters into force, as there are good alternatives that are easy to use. If one is to be cress, it will probably have a rather limited impact on the Baltic Sea unless the government pushes on within the EU to make this a common policy of the Union. More about this can be read in reservation No 14. Madam President, I would like In addition, the lion's share of micrograins comes from larger plastic fragments that have been broken down for a long time. Coping with them will require more far-reaching reforms. Here, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has been given an assignment. Although their review is not finished and published, I would like to share with you another news clip. Two weeks ago SVT reported that a British study has looked at how to wash clothes in washing machines and how much micrograins they actually emit. British researchers washed clothes in different materials at 30 - 40 degrees Fahrenheit [30 - 40 ° C.] and found that acrylic clothing produces a little over 700,000 fibers per wash. Polyester, which may be more in my closet than acrylic, emits 500,000 fibers per wash. With such figures in the back of the head, it may be little wonder that we read headlines that two out of three West Swedish blue mussels contain small plastic articles. Madam President, I would like The challenges are great, and it is easy to feel distrust. We live in a time where simple messages with dubious source reference are gaining ground. Politicians shout themselves hoarse– that's not why I'm hoarse, but I'm cold – without having reforms to back up rhetoric. I know that when this debate continues, party representatives of the other parties, who speak after me, will blame the Moderates for not wanting to do enough or not doing anything at all. They have said that every time we have had a debate on chemicals in recent years. However, to those who listen to this debate from the gallery or even at home on the computer, I would like to say that this is not the case. The Moderates certainly do not have the most fun poster or the greatest promise, but we have a policy that works. Already at the beginning of the 20th century, when the party was not yet called the Moderates but the General Electoral Association, we were driving Sweden's first environmental legislation. It was long before many of the smaller and louder parties existed. It can be said in this context that during the alliance government, Swedish emissions were reduced by almost 20 per cent, and it was completely without the need to bring any bits of coal to television recordings. In short, our environmental policy may not work very well on Twitter, but it does work in reality. And that is what will be required if we are to address the challenges of the environment and climate. For the planet is not the thought that counts – only the result.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-960	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating non-toxic everyday life and chemicals policy. As a social conservative party, we naturally advocate a sound precautionary principle in this area. Chemicals are today part of our everyday lives. Every day we are exposed to them, both our nature and our bodies. It is not something that we reflect very much on, and it is usually nothing that is particularly dangerous. It should also be pointed out that the concept of being toxic is closely related to the concentration and the method of use of the substance. But chemicals and their interaction can be a complex area, for although individual chemicals may be harmless, they can be toxic in combination with others. And what is harmless to use in small quantities can be dangerous in high concentrations. At the same time, it is important to stress that, for this reason, one should not panic and, for example, start throwing away all toys and mugs in preschool out of fear. There are examples of the work being done in this way, that the work is characterised more by fear than by rationality. It ultimately costs a lot of money, and of course we should not spend it unnecessarily. It is therefore important that the chemical work is characterised by evidence-based research, which weighs carefully the pros and cons, while at the same time the work to limit the unwanted spread of chemicals is carried out forcefully. Madam President, I would like Chemicals policy has also become an area in which the government and large parts of the opposition – in fact, all parties here besides the Swedish Democrats – see an opportunity to collect taxes from businesses and consumers under false pretenses. I am talking about the chemical tax that will be introduced. It is true that consumer electronics contain dangerous chemicals. Moreover, they are often untested, which is certainly deeply unsatisfactory. However, the chemical tax introduced does not take any account of the environment. It does not create incentives to replace worse substances for better. First of all, we do not know what these less harmful substances would be. Perhaps the main problem is that the tax does not take into account that we have border trade and that Sweden is a limited and very small market, so the chemicals will not be replaced, but consumers will change markets to trade from. This creates incentives to buy products from other countries in Europe, which will of course hit Swedish jobs in an industry that is currently struggling with profitability problems. It is a typical example of a badly designed chemical tax that should never be introduced. In the light of this, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 17. Madam President, I would like Now I didn't have a line right on Moderate Jesper Skalberg Karlsson. However, some question marks appear when I read the Moderate reservation 19, where you can read about the chemical tax that I have been talking about: It gives Swedish operators a significant competitive disadvantage compared to international competitors and risks providing only limited environmental benefits and instead leads consumers to make their purchases of white goods and consumer electronics via foreign retailers, for example on the internet. ..................................................... Then one wonders why the Moderates are proposing the introduction of this very bad tax. After all, it is as much the Moderates' proposal as the Government's, because it is found in the Moderate Budget Movement. One might ask whether it is a moderate party line that you should eat the cake and keep it. Madam President, I would like I mentioned that we are exposed to chemicals in different ways every day. This also means that chemicals policy has a major impact on our industry. Chemicals policy is largely at EU level. The fact that we have coordination in Europe in this area is, in our view, a good thing from the Swedish Democrats, while it is sometimes important in the environmental field that countries can take the lead and make their own priorities. But in cases where we have those opportunities, we must be very careful. The consequences may otherwise be that we knock out Swedish companies and jobs, while similar products are still consumed in Sweden. The question of plant protection products is an example of this. In this respect, we would like Sweden to be able to strive for harmonisation with our neighbouring countries in relation to applications, approvals and exemptions. A broad approach must also be taken in relation to chemicals, taking into account both the environmental impact of increased imports and the competitiveness of businesses. Some of the most common points I hear when I meet representatives of this industry are that the system is characterised by unpredictability and long processing times. The Agency is responsible for this work, but ultimately it is the responsibility of the government. This is serious as it harms Swedish competitiveness, Swedish growth and Swedish jobs to no environmental benefit. We therefore believe that the Chemicals Inspectorate should be given clearer directives to deal with these problems. Processing times must be shortened, the regulatory framework must be more predictable and the work must seek to create opportunities so that Swedish companies can compete on similar terms to their competitors. Madam President, I would like We have great reason to be proud of Swedish chemicals policy, and in general we agree very much on the direction and practical policy. The picture you get is that in an international perspective we are extremely good at identifying risks, detecting harmful substances and making proposals for new bans. But when it comes to giving Swedish entrepreneurs reasonable conditions in competitive industries, we are worse. The result is that we disadvantage Swedish companies while these products are still consumed in Sweden and boats with harmful chemical substances still traffic Swedish water. Of course, we need a consumer perspective on this, and that perspective should be factual and factual in order to eliminate risks in society as far as we can. We will support those who have the knowledge and work on this in making adequate and balanced assessments. We must have high ambitions in the environmental field. At the same time, we must have the business perspective. Otherwise, we will only export jobs to countries with lower ambitions without achieving any real benefits. In view of this, I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 26.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-978	Madam President, I would like Every day we come into contact with a large number of chemicals. Most of them are completely harmless. Many of them are good for us, and many of them are even vital. However, some of the chemicals we come into contact with may be allergenic, carcinogenic, endocrine disrupting or environmentally damaging. These are the chemicals we want to watch out for. Most people start their day by opening the bathroom cabinet and using one or more products. One woman uses an average of twelve different products in a day. This in turn means direct contact with almost 170 different chemicals. Men come in contact with about half as many chemicals in one day through hygienic products. We think a lot about what we eat and how it affects us and our environment. But how products such as soap, shampoo or makeup affect us and our water we don't think as much about. Even the clothes we wear on the body involve contact with chemicals. To make a kilo of material for sweaters requires three kilos of chemicals. These are chemicals that we have close to the body but which are also flushed into watercourses when we wash the garments and that during the process in the producing countries affect their drinking water and their environment. Let us take the tanning industry as an example. In some industries 130 different chemicals are used. Sometimes chromium is used in tanning, which can cause allergies and diseases. Chromium garnish workers are at high risk of developing certain cancers. Madam President and I as well as all of you who are watching this debate have a responsibility as consumers to try to consume as sustainably as possible, whether it is about jeans and sweaters or shampoo and makeup. But above all, we politicians have a heavy responsibility. We need to ensure that consumers can make informed choices through, for example, easily accessible databases and a chemical phase that makes it easy for consumers to check what different chemicals mean. Through various instruments, such as taxes or producer responsibility for textiles, we must ensure that the transition to sustainable production takes place as quickly as possible. We must also ensure that consumers are protected from dangerous substances in their daily lives. During its time in the government, the Centre Party strongly encouraged the development of the EU's common chemicals policy, REACH, which regulates, among other things, the presence of harmful substances. We see the need to improve REACH. Sweden should work to strengthen EU chemicals legislation and give priority to work for a non-toxic everyday life within the EU. Chemical use is global. It can spread in our watercourses and in our air, and this spread knows no bounds. That is why we need a great focus at European level on these challenges. Recently it was announced that four phthalates were listed on the EU candidate list as endocrine disruptors. These are substances that today can be found in shoe soles and shirt printing, but also in plastic toys, shower curtains and plastic floors. The inclusion of these phthalates on the candidate list as endocrine disruptors is an important step towards a non-toxic everyday life, but we must ensure that more dangerous substances are included in the candidate list. For us to be able to act at an early stage, it must be easier to classify and ban groups of substances with similar properties in REACH. Discovering a substance with endocrine disrupting properties is often the shortcut to replace this substance with a substance with similar properties but another name. This shortcut must be stopped. It is therefore gratifying that a united parliament today is calling on the government to step up work on banning dangerous substances in groups. Madam President, I would like REACH regulates substances, but harmful chemicals can also reach the Swedish consumer via imported products. We want to build a strong and sustainable industry in Sweden and Europe, and we do not want to export environmental problems to other countries. As far as phthalates are concerned, as I have just mentioned, important work remains, for example, because products with these endocrine disruptors will continue to be able to be imported into Europe. It is therefore important to strengthen the international work on chemicals so that more substances are regulated and stricter requirements are imposed on the goods imported into the EU. Strengthened global chemicals regulations provide a better environment both where products are manufactured and used and when they are to be treated as waste. In order to protect consumers at home, enhanced international work on chemicals should be complemented by strengthened work on the monitoring of chemicals in goods. This requirement is confirmed by the fact that the Swedish Chemicals Agency has found illicit levels of toxic substances in half of 160 products investigated. The majority of these products are imported from markets outside the EU and are therefore not regulated by EU chemicals legislation. Knowledge of chemical use can be low in many companies, and although we can succeed in information efforts for these companies, it can be more effective to perform better supervision in Sweden to avoid endocrine disruptors ending up in our homes and in our environment. The Center Party therefore wants to strengthen the work on the supervision of chemicals in goods in a collaboration between the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Police Authority and other relevant authorities. A problematic group of aquatic organisms is microshrub. Studies have shown that some aquatic organisms choose microshrub over their usual diet, which of course has major consequences. There are many different sources of micro-junk, and all have to be handled in different ways. One source is microplastics in soap and toothpaste, for example. Already today there are adequate substitutes for microplastics and micrograins that can be used in these products. The Center Party therefore wants the government to work for the EU to phase out microplastics in hygiene articles by 2020. Madam President, I would like There is great potential for Swedish companies to provide the world with sustainable and safe products – something that will be increasingly demanded in the future. By setting ambitious, long-term requirements while creating good conditions for manufacturing companies, we can ensure that work on a non-toxic everyday life is good for both consumers and producers. Of course, I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Center Party, but for time to come, I only support reservations 12 and 14.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-1000	Madam President, I would like Is it not strange and a little frightening and upsetting that we have thousands of substances on the market in Sweden and Europe and that many of them can cause us serious damage and damage to the environment? This can be about the endocrine disrupting substance bisphenol A, which is found in receipts, plastic swaps and pipes to our drinking water. It can be about different forms of phthalates, which can damage our reproductive capacity and which can be found in plastic floors, toys and other things. This could be brominated flame retardants in furniture and electronic products. These are just a few examples of chemicals that need to be controlled harder. Like I said, they can hurt us and the environment. This is also an important issue for the thousands of workers working in the chemical industry in Sweden and in the rest of the world. If we get better regulation in this area, it will not only benefit us consumers, but of course it will also benefit everyone who works with these substances. This is also an important issue for the people who handle the scrap that we create in Sweden and who then end up in different places around the world. I was in Bangladesh two weeks ago and met people who could witness how our old computers, cell phones, plastic stuff and other things end up with them as junk. People sit there without protective equipment and take the material apart. The more chemicals we have in our products here, the more chemicals there will be among children and workers in a country like Bangladesh. That is why this is an issue which not only concerns us but which has a major impact on the rest of the world. In the report, the Left Party is involved in proposing a number of important restrictions. We want a total ban on bisphenol A and other bisphenols with similar properties. We want a ban on brominated flame retardants. We want Sweden to implement a total ban on mercury in the EU, just as we already have in Sweden. I welcome the proposal that the government has now made against microplastics in cosmetics. We in the Left Party have also pushed for better information to consumers, so that we can know exactly what substances it is in different products. All of this is important, but yet I get the feeling that we are hating around a little on this issue. We'll take some chemicals that we say we want to ban. Then we read a new report, and then we want to ban them too. Then there is another report, and then there are new subjects to be regulated. It is not enough to work that way. It is also not enough to ensure that we consumers get better information, but chemicals legislation needs to be tightened up from the ground up. When I was in the European Parliament in the past, I was involved in negotiating the chemicals legislation that is now in force in Sweden and the EU as a whole and is called REACH. We negotiated it in 2006 and 2007. Even then, I said that there were major shortcomings in this chemicals law, and these are the shortcomings we are dealing with here and now. Reach needs to be changed from scratch. For example, we need a real substitution principle, a principle that says that if there is a substance with less dangerous properties, that substance should automatically replace the more harmful chemical that may be on the market. We must register and regulate all low-volume substances. These are substances that are used in small quantities but can have very serious and negative properties. As the previous speaker from the Center Party mentioned, it is a question of being able to deal with chemicals in groups. We should not just go on the individual chemical, but we should look at the properties of different chemicals. If we have stopped a property or endocrine disrupting effect of a substance, this shall automatically apply to new substances that come onto the market and have similar properties. It is also a question of dealing with how chemicals work in groups, so-called combined effects. A chemical may appear completely uncontroversial if used separately, but it interacts with other chemicals. It is therefore necessary to be able to make assessments on the basis of these combined effects. We need to regulate nanomaterials. We are basically not doing that at all today. We know very little about their effects. We also need to have an absolutely fundamental principle enshrined in the chemicals legislation, namely that a Member State should always be able to take precedence over and regulate a chemical if it is perceived as harmful and has negative effects. There shall be a guarantee for all Member States to be able to take precedence. If we get these changes in place, I think we do not have to sit here every year and pick out individual chemicals that we say we want to ban in Sweden. Then we will have a more robust regulatory framework that will ensure that we are right in the stream and that we put the responsibility where it should be, namely on those who put chemicals on the market. It is industry that should bear the burden of proof. It is industry that should prove that it is an important subject that Europe's consumers need, that it is not harmful in any way and that it has been tested in every way possible. I'll let it get to the market. We politicians should not have to do fire-fighting afterwards, as is unfortunately the case today. Madam President, I would like I am, of course, in favour of everything proposed by the Left Party in the report, but I would like to call for the approval of reservation 5, which deals with the definition of endocrine disrupting substances for the time being. It must be clear, and particularly dangerous substances must be defined.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-1018	Madam President, I would like I agree with the previous speaker on the list of dangerous substances. You might find it strange that they are in so many things. A non-toxic everyday life, as the report says, should really be a matter of course, but it is a challenge, often because of a lack of knowledge, which must be constantly renewed. While we are learning about existing substances, new chemical products, more or less well-founded, are constantly coming onto the market. It is important to bear in mind that chemical products are not by definition toxic products. Chemical products also have a positive side and are valuable and useful in many contexts. Today, however, we are talking about a non-toxic everyday life, so we are talking about toxic chemicals now. As noted earlier here, a large part of the chemicals legislation is harmonised across the EU, through the REACH Regulation, which makes the EU a natural arena for this type of discussion. I believe that we agree here that the development that is taking place within the European Union and the tightening up of the legislation that needs to be done are far too slow. One might wonder why it should have to be that way, not least in the case of endocrine disruptors. Although the EU is central and important, it does not exclude action at national level. On the Liberal side, not least in the budget, we have set priorities based on the precautionary principle, the polluter pays principle and green tax exchange. It is the argument that makes us stand behind a chemical tax. The aim is to reduce the incidence and thus the risk of exposure to substances that are dangerous for the environment and health, which are often used in homes. Then you can always have views on the design, but we may have to revise it in the future so that it really has the effect that we have planned. It is important that the design controls so that substances with higher risk are replaced with less dangerous substances through so-called substitution or substitution. This is possible, because there are often alternatives. It is, of course, important to remove dangerous chemicals from consumer products, such as toys and clothing, which have been mentioned here before. We see more and more that there is a need to discuss clothes. Liberals therefore want to strengthen market surveillance with a special focus on products for children. It is also something that we have highlighted in the budgetary context. Madam President, I would like I am in favour of reservation 6 in the report, but I am also, of course, in favour of reservations 14 and 20 in which the Liberals are present. I also call for the unanimous proposal for an announcement to the government when it comes to the need for chemical products to be dealt with in groups. As has been mentioned here before, it is not a way forward for us to discuss individual subjects politically. It's really about science and toxicity. Changing one substance for another that has the same characteristics is in some way destructive in this context. So I think it goes without saying that we are pushing the European Union so that it can be quickly concluded that this can be done. Everything else is very counterproductive from the point of view of health and the environment and from a scientific point of view. Reservation 6, which I have supported, concerns the phasing out of particularly dangerous substances and the pursuit of this issue at European level. These are mercury, brominated flame retardants and endocrine disruptors, such as bisphenols. The fact that we have harmonised rules within the EU should be a force for the common market, so that dangerous chemicals are not released. However, it is a little strange that this legislation is so slow at European level. I am sure there are many reasons for this. Nevertheless, the question is asked why the phasing-out of these particularly dangerous substances is not progressing, because the knowledge is so great that this is not good. Sweden has played a role for a long time in pushing this legislation forward. Not least during the time of the alliance government, this was a very central issue. This work has continued under this government as well. Another very central issue is highlighted in reservation 14. It concerns phasing out and banning microplastics. Either you have microplastics in products, or products become microplastics during the journey. It could be a little different. I think that, like most people, I find it almost insurmountable the consequences that this issue can have in the long run, not least because microplastics bind environmental toxins which then enter the food chains and ecosystems. In recent months alone, we have read that microplastics have been detected in mussels and even whales. They're everywhere. We have had a discussion about the fact that the spread must, of course, be stopped at the source. That's the point of departure. Then there is a requirement that they can be removed in hygiene articles. Perhaps that is the simple thing and should be the obvious thing. This requirement must be pursued within the EU so that the phasing-out that we have discussed here takes place before 2020. When we talk about microplastics, there is another part, that is, all the plastic that exists in the oceans. As someone mentioned earlier, unless the trend is broken, there will be more plastic than fish in the oceans in 2050. I assume that it is then said that the amount of plastic will increase and not that the amount of fish will decrease. When we discuss the seas, it is not enough to stop this at its source. For several years to come, plastic will be evicted across our coasts. We know that, not least with regard to the west coast and the Bohus coast, there are no single cubic metres of plastic, but thousands of cubic metres of plastic lying on the beaches. Of course, the plastic is gradually broken down into smaller and smaller particles and flushed back into the sea. It is therefore not only from the point of view of accessibility and from an aesthetic point of view that the plastic must be cleaned up, but not least from this point of view. It is very important that this is done in principle every year. I know there is some money in the budget. The Liberals have proposed even greater funding for this very purpose, so that our beaches must be cleaned up. If we previously felt that the weight was on aesthetics and accessibility, I think that the weight now needs to be shifted to the issue of washing out microplastics in the sea, which can have disastrous effects. In a TV show – I think it was last week – there was talk of the analysis of a number of alk birds that had died. They had chosen plastic for food and basically contained only plastic. Then it was not so easy to live on. So this is a major problem that we must take seriously. It is about both microplastics in hygiene articles and that we have to clean our beaches as long as plastic is evicted.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-1039	Madam President, I would like I have two questions for Lars Tysklind. The first concerns REACH, EU chemicals legislation. It sounds like we agree on most things, and I think it is good that we should push for better regulation. What we in the Left Party think is important in this context is that the Member States should always be able to go ahead and present national bans that could in future become an EU ban. Lars Tysklind mentioned the word harmonisation in his speech. If harmonisation is in place, it may take a very long time before we get a ban at European level. We may never get it. I wonder whether the Liberals agree that it is a good principle that Member States should always be allowed to go ahead with national regulations within the framework of REACH? My second question concerns reservation 14 by the bourgeois parties to phase out microplastics. I fully agree that it must be done. Now the government has put forward such a proposal for a referral. The idea is that we will get a Swedish ban on microplastics in hygiene products from 1 January next year, if I have understood correctly. Your reservation states that you want an EU ban. Then I wonder if it means that you only want an EU ban, or if you think it is a good principle that Sweden takes precedence over a national ban on microplastics and that in the next step you can imagine an EU ban that would of course also be great.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-1043	Madam President, I would like We often get into the discussion about the most effective level of this type of action. The answer to this question is, of course, that it is extremely much more effective if it can be achieved at European level and throughout the internal market. If we are talking about the oceans, we do not know where these microplastics come from, and that really does not matter. If under the regulations it is possible to remove microplastics in hygiene articles in Sweden within REACH – I'm not entirely sure that this space exists, but there should be – we have no views on it but think that it should be a sensible way to go. Then the answer to the first question is that one should of course also use the space available nationally, not least to show that it is possible to gain knowledge of how substitution works and so on. But, in principle, it is the European level that is the strong level, and where we are going to put the gunpowder in order to have a change because that is when it has a great effect.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-1045	Mr President, I would like to It sounds like we agree that it is a good proposal to first go ahead and ban microplastics here in Sweden, and then I assume that the government will push this also at European level. I did not think it was crystal clear what the Liberals really think about having a guarantee where Member States should always be able to take the lead in REACH and regulate chemicals at national level. I agree that it would be great if an EU ban were to be imposed. But often the big problem is precisely that you do not get a ban at European level, or it takes a very long time and once it does, it is full of exceptions and loopholes. It will therefore be a ban that is not much worth. On the other hand, we have seen that the times that Member States have fought and brought forward with national regulations have been successful. We have seen in several areas that this has led to a European ban. That is why I think it would be good if the Liberals could say: it is great if we can get it at European level, but of course we think that every country should have the right to stop chemicals in its country and not have to sit with its arms crossed and wait for Brussels. Don't the Liberals think that?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-1049	Mr President, I would like to Now we are talking about the word guarantee. Let me problematise it a little, because this is a problematic balance. We have introduced harmonised legislation, and that is because, overall, we have an internal market in which we do not place products that are dangerous to the environment and to health. It leads us to trade barriers and the whole of that part and how much we can actually prevent the flow of products at the next stage. Maybe the word "guarantee" is to touch. But I think it is important that we in Sweden can identify and decide, especially when it comes to chemicals that are directed directly to consumers. For example, we have been talking about bisphenol A. In toys there have been poisons and so on. I think it is very reasonable for a country to take the lead there, and I even think it is good to do so in order to create credibility in terms of chemicals against the population. When it comes to always taking the lead, I may not be able to stand here today and say that we should have a guarantee of this, but it is, of course, a balance.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-1052	Mr President, I would like to A nontoxic everyday life should be something that we all want to live in. Who wants to live on an earth where environmental toxins threaten our lives, our health, animal life and the environment? We don't want that. A nontoxic everyday life is especially important for children, who are particularly sensitive to chemicals and other substances in our environment. It is therefore an important task for the policy to protect children and young people in the best way. The Christian Democrats propose that when a public actor who carries out activities for children makes a procurement, it should be possible for the operator himself to specify which environmental and health requirements apply, unless the counterparty can prove that the requirements are unjustified. This would range from toys and baby bottles to food and drink consumed primarily by children in the activities. Among the municipalities around our country today there is a great deal of commitment to phasing out toxic substances from the children's everyday lives. In my municipality of Örebro, where we are in the majority, we have recently adopted a strategy for a non-toxic Örebro and an action plan for non-toxic childcare services. For example, it has decided to replace mattresses and plastic toys in preschool with guaranteed non-toxic alternatives. This is an example of the commitment that exists. Great efforts have been and are being made by both the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate and Kammarkollegiet, and not least by all principals in the country. Already today, private actors in the welfare sector can impose stricter environmental requirements in their operations than municipalities and county councils can because they do not have to comply with EU procurement rules. It should also be possible for a municipal preschool to profile itself as, for example, non-toxic preschools, with stricter demands on everything from toys and baby bottles to food and drink consumed by children in the activities, even though the demands for freedom of poison then made go beyond what the European Court of Justice has found proportionate. With the Christian Democrats' proposal, it is up to operators and users to decide what they are prepared to pay to achieve the desired qualities. The proposal allows public actors to be a driving force in environmental development. Mr President, I would like to Furthermore, the Christian Democrats want the EU's regulatory framework to give individual Member States more opportunities to introduce tougher rules for environmental reasons in order to take precedence. The opportunity that exists today for an individual EU country is the so-called environmental guarantee, which we have heard about in the debate. It can be found in Article 114 of the Treaty of Lisbon. The environmental guarantee provides an opportunity for us to maintain or introduce stricter requirements than the common environmental legislation requires. It is the European Commission that decides whether to allow the legislation. The Commission's assessment includes determining whether the law constitutes a hidden barrier to trade or otherwise violates the internal market. Today, the Member State in question is required to have special circumstances which justify stricter rules than those common to it. In practice, the European Commission and the Court of Justice interpret the environmental guarantee very strictly. For example, Denmark has been forced to remove the ban on the harmful additives nitrite, nitrate and sulphite in sausages. We believe that a higher political ambition with the aim of protecting the environment or human health should be reason enough to approve that we in Sweden should be able to have tougher rules. Mr President, I would like to Bisphenols are a endocrine disruptor with extensive use in our society. It is used in many plastic products, and it is also suspected that at low doses it can have effects on reproductive performance, on foetuses and young children. Today, bisphenol A is completely banned in baby bottles throughout Europe. In addition, limit values have been introduced for toys for children under three years of age and toys intended for oral use. That's completely out of the question. However, the debate on bisphenol A has brought variants of phenol, called bisphenol B, bisphenol F and bisphenol S, to the market. From 2020 Bisphenol A will also be banned in thermopaper used in, among other things, cash receipts and tickets. Sweden has preceded its own ban on bisphenol A in food packaging for children up to three years old and in the purification of drinking water pipes. This is a step in the right direction, but we think it is time to move forward and ban all forms of bisphenols. Mr President, I would like to Another area is nanotechnology, which is expanding rapidly today because it offers great technical and commercial opportunities. But the knowledge is very little about its risks to humans, animals and the environment. Today, nanomaterials are found in cosmetics, food products, batteries and coatings as well as in clothes that have been treated antibacterially. The legislation currently in place is inferior. All imports and production of chemical substances over one tonne per year and manufacturers must be registered today. What about nanomaterials? Since nanomaterials are often used or imported in very small quantities, most of them fall below the threshold for this requirement. It is therefore not possible to obtain sufficient information on the scope of risk assessment and, if necessary, to take action. The Swedish Government must act as a driving force to adapt legislation within the EU in this area and to ensure that knowledge about the health and environmental effects of nanoparticles and nanomaterials is achieved. Mr President, I would like to Microplastics spread in the sea today are a major problem. Algae eat microplastics, fish eat algae and we eat the fish. That way this is passed on to us. It is clear from the report that every year 39 tonnes of microplastics are added to the Baltic Sea from the use of beauty products and soap. But microplastics are also released from plastic pieces from, for example, plastic bags. In order to reduce the use of plastic bags, we have proposed in our budget a tax of SEK 1 per plastic bag. This would give 1 billion to the Treasury in the first year, and I am convinced that it would have a controlling effect, so that people take bags of other material with them when they go to the store to buy food. Mr President, I would like to Drug residues in the environment are an increasing problem. The Christian Democrats propose producer responsibility for the negative environmental effects of medicines. Producer responsibility is already applied in a number of other areas, such as packaging of various materials, newspapers, electric scrap and batteries. Medications and residues of drugs in our waste water require additional treatment at wastewater treatment plants, and many times it is not enough to completely reduce environmental toxins. It is reasonable for the pharmaceutical industry, like other industries with environmentally hazardous substances, to assume producer responsibility and to cover the costs of spillage of environmentally harmful pharmaceutical residues from production via the sewage network or into the stormwater. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support the reservations of the Christian Democrats, but for the time to come, I am only calling for reservation 3 on environmental requirements in public procurement and for reservation 6 on phasing out particularly dangerous substances.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-1069	Mr President, I would like to We have now heard several of the other parties talk about their commitment in this area, which concerns chemicals and a non-toxic environment. Now it's my turn. I became a Social Democrat because I felt – and I still think so – that it is the Social Democracy that can best combine what we humans need to live a good life. This means sustainable development from an environmental, social and economic perspective. It also means being able to balance our concern for nature and the environment with a growth that is also distributed fairly. Or as the Brundtland Commission defined it: Sustainable development is a development that meets today's needs without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs. We Social Democrats have a proud tradition of working on environmental and climate issues. Over the years we have seen a strong commitment that has been embodied through many leading political representatives such as Birgitta Dahl, Anna Lindh, Göran Persson and Lena Sommestad, to name but a few examples. Our idea – the green folk house you can call it, if you like – is precisely about this: to accept jointly and severally a responsibility for our common assets, which will both be distributed fairly and managed for future generations. The Swedish model has shown that it is possible to reconcile welfare, economic growth and environmental thinking. It is about environmentally friendly technological development that creates jobs, economic growth and a welfare worthy of the name. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish government delivers, not least when it comes to the environment and climate, which is one of the more priority areas for this government. This is visible, and it is reflected in both government declarations and budgetary efforts, as well as in initiatives in the EU and at global level. For example, the budget proposal for 2017 proposes the largest investment budget on climate and environmental issues in Sweden's history. Our overall ambitions are high from an international perspective. Last night, several members of the Environment and Agriculture Committee met with the Minister for Climate Change to discuss the major international maritime conference that later this year is taking place in New York. There we will discuss the situation of our seas. Not least microplastics are included as a substance, and this is also part of what we are discussing here tonight. Mr President, I would like to Chemicals are something that concerns all of us. We humans come into contact with them through the clothes we wear, through the food we eat or through the medicine we need when we are sick. Chemicals are also found in electronics products, hygiene products and several other products. However, handling chemicals and being exposed to them is not safe. The report before us today is about a non-toxic everyday life and, of course, relates to the environmental quality objective of a non-toxic environment. It is an important objective that means that substances created or extracted by society should not threaten our health or nature in a critical way. It is also one of the more difficult environmental quality objectives to achieve, but at the same time there is a broad commitment to chemicals issues in the Swedish parliament. We have heard it in the debate, and we know that the commitment is also in the government and – above all – in my own party of the Social Democrats. The Action Plan established for a non-toxic everyday life is a central part of the overall strategy to achieve the goal. It will be further developed, for which the Swedish Chemicals Agency has a special responsibility. Several proposals have already been made. Some of these concern the prohibition of volatile substances in construction products, the prohibition of fluoro-based environmental toxins in fire foam and the prohibition of micro-grains of plastic in cosmetic products. We are also looking forward to the European Commission's forthcoming strategy for a non-toxic environment, which we expect to be presented in 2018. It will hopefully be significant and will be able to strengthen the EU regulatory framework and otherwise reduce exposure to dangerous substances. The EU is important here. As we have heard before, the area of chemicals is highly harmonised within the framework of the European Union. It is coordinated by EU chemicals legislation REACH, which means that the scope for national sectoral rules is somewhat limited. But regardless of this, Sweden will try to go ahead with national legislation against hazardous chemicals when the EU acquis is not enough. I think that this House needs to remember that many regulations have started as a national regulation and then followed by an EU regulation or a regulation at a global level. Furthermore, it should be recalled that it was a strong political will in the EU Member States that made it possible to bring about the world's most ambitious chemicals legislation, REACH. This is worth remembering. I would like to stress that it is self-evident to me as a social democrat that Sweden should not only be a front-runner in this area, but also take precedence over national legislation against dangerous chemicals. One particular area mentioned, which Prime Minister Stefan Löfven mentioned in his government declaration, is to free preschools and schools from dangerous chemicals. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has been, and is, an example when it comes to both national and international chemicals policy. As I said, an important part has been to work towards developing EU chemicals legislation. Sweden is one of the Member States that has submitted the highest number of proposals for measures against substances harmful to health and the environment. That work must continue, as it is now. The basis for a non-toxic everyday life is laid by harmonised classification of dangerous substances, authorisation testing within the EU and prohibition of the sale and use of certain dangerous chemicals. We also need to continue to review the legislation. We need to look at more economic instruments, we need to look at how we work in public procurement and we need to be better at targeted information for consumers. In addition, of course, we can also hope for individual companies' own initiatives. Mr President, I would like to As a Social Democratic representative of the Riksdag's Environment and Agriculture Committee, I am pleased to see the broad commitment that exists in the Swedish Parliament on these issues. If we hook arms, we can probably also ensure that a progressive Swedish chemicals policy continues to become a reality. I would like to conclude by calling for the proposal in report MJU7 Non-toxic everyday life as a whole to be approved. Last of all, I want us to remember one thing: It is together that we make a difference – for the future and for our children's sake.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-1092	Mr President, I would like to I agree with a great deal of what Johan Büser said in his speech. I also think that the conference in New York on maritime policy should be very interesting, and it is good that the Swedish Government has taken the initiative. But to go so far and to arrange such a large conference is not worth much if you do not at the same time make sure to clean up in front of your own door and take action at home. In this context, I think that the proposal now being prepared by the government – on a ban on microplastics in cosmetics and skin care products – is a good one. Then let us remember that with regard to the presence of plastic in the sea, only a small part comes from microplastics in cosmetics. Most of it comes from other areas, such as car tires that are worn while driving. A large part of the plastic comes from not least regular plastic bags. I wonder what the government and Social Democrats' strategy to reduce the use of plastic bags is. I know that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has been commissioned to return with requirements for information about alternatives to plastic bags. That's good. But does Johan Büser think that it is really enough to provide information on alternatives to plastic bags? Do we not need a sharper instrument? We heard the Christian Democrats talking about a tax on plastic bags. I think that would be a very good idea. There are a few countries that have introduced taxes on plastic bags, such as Ireland. The use of plastic bags decreased by nearly 90 per cent in just six months. Are you prepared to introduce a tax on plastic bags to reduce their use?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-1097	Mr President, I would like to Indeed, Jens Holm, the government is looking at what can be done to reduce consumption, and indeed plastic bags are absolutely a villain in the drama of littering the oceans. The conference Jens Holm mentions is the largest held since the 1972 conference. It is a real initiative to raise the issues at global level. Sweden thus takes the lead internationally in reducing consumption. Microplastics is a subject that is discussed a lot, not only in the Swedish parliament but also in our municipalities. It is correct that we have proposed a ban on microplastics in skin care products that can be rinsed off. We are also looking at trade to inform about the harmfulness of plastic carrier bags and what alternatives exist. Just as Mr Holm says, I do not think it is enough to stop by informing and showing different options. I absolutely believe that in the future we will need and will see more examples of instruments. It could be some kind of tax. Then it is important that it be formulated wisely. For my personal part, it may be interesting to see experiences from other countries that have gone even further than that and implemented bans. The requirements are not sustainable as they stand today.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-1101	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I hope that Johan Büser will be heard in the government. This is a matter of urgency. Now you have been in government for over two years, and soon the demand will be that the trade informs about alternatives to plastic carrier bags. That's good. But I expect more from the government. It would have been good if we had seen, for example, taxes on plastic carrier bags in Sweden already now. It has been introduced in the UK, Ireland and Denmark. What is good about such a tax is that it draws in money that can be used for environmental work. If it is the opinion of the Social Democrats that more is needed than simply informing – it is well rooted in Social Democratic policy not only to roll over responsibility to the consumer – I wonder when sharper instruments will come. How much longer are we going to have to wait, Mr President?
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-1104	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Mr Holm, we naturally share the same commitment. We recognise that the situation is completely unsustainable in terms of our seas, microplastics and plastic bags. It is gratifying to see the examples from those countries that have already gone a long way and are ahead of Sweden in terms of bans. I hope that's something we should also look at. We'll follow developments. Mr Holm knows that the government is preparing the issue and is going to make sharp proposals. It is always easier when you are in opposition to point things out. Then they will be implemented. But taxation is one of several instruments that can certainly be considered. I hope that it will not be too long before we look further at such instruments. What we have done so far is that we start with skin care products. Hopefully there will be a ban. Eventually, there may be a discussion on how to reduce consumption of plastic carrier bags. Trade may inform and demonstrate harmfulness and provide other alternatives. There will be awareness among consumers. I think that the discussion both politically and in society has started well. I expect much more to happen in the coming years. I hope that our parties can work together in those ambitions.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-1107	Mr President, I would like to We are gathered in the Chamber today to debate Mr MJU's report No. 7 on a non-toxic everyday life. As usual, I was about to say, it is a subject that engages the committee. There is a great deal of consensus – but not all of them. It feels good that there is a commitment to these incredibly important issues. I thought I'd start by maintaining myself a little bit by the name Poison-free everyday life. The name suggests that we live in a toxic everyday life. It's scary. Of course, there have always been toxic substances in our nature and around us. These are yews, neptune shells, beak mice and lily of the valley. But somehow it doesn't feel like we're living in a toxic everyday life when we're out in nature. With a little knowledge and common sense, you have often managed quite well without being poisoned. We wash our hands after we pick lily of the valley, we don't eat beak mice and we don't chew on yewberries. Unfortunately, it is not as easy to avoid clothes, toys, floors and lunch boxes. But in many cases there are poisons and things that make us bad and sick. These are substances that are usually constructed by man. Of course, there are also natural substances that we use elsewhere. In the wrong places or at the wrong time in life, these substances can become allergens as well as carcinogenic and endocrine disruptors. Something I expose myself to today may not affect me at all, but if I had been three years old, it might have affected me. But I wouldn't have known about it or noticed the results until the age I'm now. This is a tricky and difficult subject. Nor do we always know how different substances interact with each other. Member Jens Holm referred earlier to the cocktail effects, i.e. that one-plus-one is not always two, but one-plus-one substance may be ten in strength because they react with or affect each other. This is difficult to access and difficult to measure. Many of these substances we use have not been developed to be bad and toxic to us, but actually to facilitate. Plant protection products were developed to make life easier for the farmer. Agents that enabled us to have a soft plastic film inside a box that made food last longer gave us a better food supply. Of course, putting out fires well and effectively is something that has benefited all of us. But then these substances remain in the form of high - fluoride substances, and they are persistent and persistent. They remain in nature, accumulate and continue to do harm. We didn't think about that then, but we can do that now. This is how we can do it. We continue to develop subjects to make things easier for us. They are building materials, plastics, floors, toys, clothes and paints. Receipt papers! Who thinks, when you go and buy take away sushi, that the receipt you get contains bisphenols? It doesn't anymore, but five years ago it did. This is not good. Unfortunately, this has meant that we live in a toxic everyday life and that the environmental objective that we have about a non-toxic everyday life will be difficult to achieve in time. However, the government is taking this seriously. This is evident not least in the letter Non-toxic everyday life, which forms the basis of the report, along with the exercise of general exercise time. On 78 pages, page up and page down, it addresses how the government works with the issue, topic of subject and area of area. However, it is a difficult subject, and much is affected by EU and international legislation. Although we can sometimes influence at national level, it is not until we have it at European or international level that the whole thing has any effect. It's going pretty slow. Both the former and the present government sued the European Commission for thinking that the work is so slow – and has been right. We have cooperation, REACH up, with the Environment Minister and other environmental ministers in the EU who want to push for faster work. But it's not always possible. Earlier here we heard about the UN's new Sustainable Development Goals, Agenda 2030. In this context, a great deal of attention will be given to chemicals, and hopefully this work could be a wake-up call for many of the countries where it is a little slow. We don't always get where we want, even if the will is there, but there are other ways to work. We can ban what we can on a national basis. We can influence what we can in the channels where we can. We can go ahead and do what we can. We can also use consumer power, because that is often what works well, and change behavior patterns. In this way the government and politics can also make it easier for people to do the right thing. For example, a strategy for sustainable consumption has been developed which shows what municipalities, business and civil society can do to make it easier for consumers to act sustainably. It's an important part of the chemicals business. The Swedish Chemicals Agency has a new mission to work on the action plan for a non-toxic everyday life. There are special efforts to this end. It will develop the service Ask the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate. There are also new approaches, such as the Chemical Podd if you want to listen to what is happening. The consumer strategy for sustainable consumption has many elements that make it easy to do the right thing or make it easier to do the right thing. It's a part of the government's ability to influence. I think that's important. I have to comment on the microplastic issue that has been raised by several speakers. Microplastics are bad for the environment. As has been noted, there are plastics that are small or microscopic from the beginning, such as in beauty products. It could be peeling cream or toothpaste with plastic. But there is also microplastic that comes from larger pieces breaking down and becoming smaller. It could be train timber from a boat or a plastic bag that ends up in the wrong place. It also comes from when we wash our clothes and from car tires. The government has set up an investigation that is now out for a referral and announced that it will probably, if nothing unexpected happens, be a ban on adding microplastics to skin care products that are rinsed off. It's easy to do. There are substitutes, and the industry is fully involved. But it's the smallest source of them all to microplastics. That is why – almost a year and a half ago, I believe – a new mandate has been given: to identify the main sources, or major sources and other sources, of microplastics. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was given this assignment and will also look at how to reduce and take advantage of this and what constitutional changes need to be made to reduce emissions. Here, hopefully, we can access the other parts that have been asked for. The mission will be finalized in June this year. There's one of those things. We also work a lot on the waste issue. The most important thing is that the plastic doesn't come out. I was going to say a lot more, but I'm only going to make a little pass to the Moderate who stood here at the beginning of the debate and beat the chest for one of Sweden's first environmental laws. I want to say that the first environmental law came on the west coast already in the 1700s and was about grumse ponds. They caught herring to make lamp oil. The crane cookery poured out what was left in the sea, and it smelled very bad. It was decreed that all those who had trancoking had to make a muzzle pond, where they poured it out to catch the particles so that they would not come out into the wild. The cloud was used as fertilizer. This is also the case today, but just as then we still have big things to find out. I think that the government, with the letter Gift-free everyday life, shows that it takes this seriously.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-1130	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to express my support for reservations 9 and 11 from the committee. The issues dealt with in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture's report on water conservation are, without exaggeration, vital. The state of our seas, lakes and streams affects not only man but also most of the plant and animal life on earth. Lakes and streams give us drinking water, but not just that. The sea gives us fish and shellfish that are important sources of protein for many people. Transporting goods on water is very energy efficient. Seas and watercourses are also important for energy supply, where power plant dams and wind and wave power contribute to our electricity supply. Several of the ecosystems found in the aquatic environment are very sensitive. Seas, lakes, and rivers are under enormous pressure. Many human activities affect the aquatic environment. Some areas are very busy, which means a physical strain. Other causes of stress may be eutrophication, depletion, acidification or climate change that affect in different ways. A growing problem is that chemicals, which we have just debated here, and debris are being released into the sea. 6.4 million tons of garbage are dumped in the oceans every year. It already kills birds and mammals that get stuck in or eat the garbage. Through the microplastics that remain in fish and are eventually eaten by humans, it is also a threat to human health. The litter causes major problems for fishing and also for the tourism industry. The litter floats up on our shores, where the municipalities are given a great responsibility to take care of what has been thrown into the sea far beyond the municipal border. It's both demanding and costly. Much of the garbage flows ashore in Sweden because Sweden has a long coastline. Therefore, Sweden is allowed to take a large part of the bill to reduce the damage of marine debris even if the debris originates from other countries. The Moderates believe that the government should work to ensure that the costs of marine litter are distributed more fairly within the EU. Taking care of marine litter is currently the responsibility of municipalities, but we believe that the municipalities concerned and the many voluntary initiatives taken should receive better support. The Moderates therefore want the LOVA grant to be broadened to include measures against marine litter. In concrete terms, for example, it could be to support local beach cleaning initiatives, municipal cooperation projects or the development of local action plans to reduce the supply of microplastics to our seas. Eutrophication is a problem that often has its cause far inland but which, through the watercourses, end up in the sea. Nutrients can enter the environment via emissions to the air from car traffic, shipping or power plants, through leakages from agriculture or via emissions from our wastewater treatment plants and industries. The LOVA contribution has proven to be effective in the fight to reduce our own emissions, but international collaboration is very important here too. Another measure that has proved to be effective, particularly on the west coast, is the production of mussels. The Moderates therefore want to ensure that beach protection rules can simplify for mussel farms, and we expect the Government to act as soon as possible on the announcement addressed to the Government by the Riksdag regarding beach protection. While acidification of lakes and watercourses has decreased recently, it has been shown that sea acidification is increasing. This is because the level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is increasing, and when carbon dioxide dissolves in the seawater carbonic acid is formed, which makes the oceans acidier. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) notes in its latest report that the oceans have absorbed 30% of man-made CO2 emissions. As this is a relatively recent problem, there is not enough research into its impact on ecosystems. The Moderates therefore believe that research into this needs to be prioritised. Chemicals pollute our lakes, streams and oceans. This is done through both leakage and stormwater as well as via wastewater treatment plants. A growing problem is drug residues, which are often potent even after passing through the body. Added to this are leftover drugs that are thrown into household garbage or flushed into the toilet and eventually end up in the water systems. We need to develop more efficient wastewater treatment, but also work on prevention so that medicines and other chemicals do not end up in nature at first. The oil increase that struck Tjörn's municipality on the west coast a number of years ago revealed at a later evaluation that the division of roles between the different parties was unclear. It was particularly highlighted that it was not clear what the municipality of Tjörn could expect from MSB, HaV, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and also the county government lsen. When a serious event such as an oil strike occurs, the division of responsibilities must be clear, and it must be clear what the respective actors have to do with their roles and tasks. In the event of an oil switch-on, it may take a long time to determine who is responsible for the operator and this may lead to delays in the clean-up work. Therefore, the practice has become that the municipality takes responsibility for the clean-up despite the fact that the legislation says otherwise. The Moderates believe that the Government should review the Environmental Code in order to clarify the responsibility for the oil removal of beaches so that the clean-up work can begin as soon as possible. Water is our most important food. Drinking water supplies must be adequately protected according to the conditions in each area. For natural reasons, the risks and conditions vary depending on where the water protection area is located and which related activities exist. We therefore believe that there should be flexibility in the design of different water protection areas. The government should take measures so that water protection areas can be designed differently depending on the risks and local conditions. Some areas of the world's oceans have particularly sensitive ecosystems, and some of them are therefore protected. We believe that shipping routes in particularly sensitive areas should be modified to a greater extent than they are today in order to reduce the strain on marine protected areas. In the case of marine nature reserves, plans should also be drawn up to ensure that the objectives set for the area are achieved. The Action Programme for the EU Water Directive has not functioned as intended. It is well known that it is responsible for small-scale hydropower, but in addition some 10 000 installations, such as mills and small ponds, are also under threat. The square handling of these cases risks leading to the demolition of sites, which can then put valuable agricultural land under water. Therefore, we believe that the implementation of the WFD urgently needs to be reviewed, not least with regard to the financing of permit testing. Mr President, I would like to The sea is a matter for everyone, and neither a municipality nor a single country can handle problems such as marine litter, oil spills or acidification on its own. The municipalities need support from the government and authorities in the management of marine litter, and Sweden should be a driving force within the EU to raise the issue on the international agenda. The oceans are affected by everyone who uses them in different ways. A good and viable marine environment requires more international cooperation.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-1150	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation 3 in this report to be approved. Nature must be preserved and managed in accordance with the principle of prudent progress, which seeks a balance between environmental objectives and other social interests. Natural resources shall be used in a long-term manner without being consumed, in accordance with the management concept. Nature should be managed and preserved, but not at the expense of agriculture and other rural activities being regulated by red tape and tax burdens. Our waters have great potential. They give us energy and drinking water, and we must, of course, protect them. Mr President, I would like to Compared to other parties, Sweden's democrats' environmental policy focuses to a lesser extent on international problems where Sweden's role is limited. It is not because we do not want to participate at international level or because we do not care about international problems, but when we distribute money in the Swedish Parliament we try to do that where they can do the most good. That is also why we are investing more in our own neighbourhood, where, firstly, we can make a noticeable difference and, secondly, we can influence ourselves to a much greater extent. One such area, of course, is water and water conservation. It is both a national and a regional matter. The Baltic Sea has not only great natural values but also economic and cultural dimensions for Sweden. This inland sea is particularly sensitive precisely because of its limited volume of water and the limited exchange of water with adjacent seas. Unfortunately, this is not only about preserving but also about restoring a water environment that has historically been extremely burdened. Mr President, I would like to Eutrophication is a problem. It is caused by nitrogen and phosphorus supply and results in oxygen deficiency, bottom death and algal bloom to an extent that is frequently described as alarming. The problem is not new, and regional initiatives are already under way, for example within the framework of the work of the Helsinki Committee. Science provides several explanatory models for why the Baltic Sea is overfed, which in the next step leads to different theories about which measures are most effective to counteract eutrophication. From a political point of view, it would be questionable to try to dictate which measures should be prioritised over others, but from the Swedish Democrats' side we want to spend more money on these measures. The funds can be used, for example, for pilot projects to combat eutrophication problems. Given the complexity of the problems is a broad grant probably the best. One should probably also be prepared to think outside the box and to combat the effects of eutrophication in parallel with its causes. Structural calcification is a measure that has been discussed. Another is to oxygenate the bottom of the Baltic Sea in some places and a third to physically remove sludge and biomass. As politicians, however, we cannot determine how effective or otherwise appropriate these measures would be; this issue should, of course, be left to other parties. Mr President, I would like to Given that a high share of emissions comes from countries other than Sweden, it is also necessary and cost-effective to try to take these measures within the framework of regional cooperation. When discussing eutrophication of the Baltic Sea, there is today a great focus on Swedish agriculture; we think it is too big. There will always be nutrient leakage from agriculture. It can of course be reduced, but the measures most often presented in Swedish politics are different tax burdens, which ultimately leads to a reduction in agriculture and an even more reduced level of self-sufficiency. We shouldn't go that way. Mr President, I would like to There has been a lot of talk about plastics in the chemical debate, and I was going to touch on that issue in this debate as well. The presence of plastics in the marine environment and other ecosystems is a growing problem. Marine litter leads to plastic material spreading, breaking down and then being absorbed by aquatic animals and thus also consumed by humans. Moreover, plastic articles can accumulate environmental toxins, which potentially poses a threat to both ecosystems and human health. The problem is international, but Sweden should act nationally and regionally and also step up efforts to address the problem in international forums. Obviously we have the opportunity to make a difference, especially in the Baltic Sea, where Sweden is the country with the longest coast. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats want to see continued intensive work to reduce the amount of plastic in our surrounding seas. It is positive that there is a broad political consensus on these issues. We look forward to following the work of the government. Part of this is increased support for research. That is also why we are increasing the funding for environmental research. Watercourses and lakes can also be polluted, with consequences for animals and nature. Protecting watercourses against negative environmental impacts is a long-term and patient work carried out by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate and other relevant authorities, but it can also be a matter of cleaning contaminated soils that can be a risk factor for groundwater, for example. We have seen a big discussion about the PFAS, which has been called the PCBs of our time. It has been measured far too high in our waters. We do not yet know how dangerous these substances are. However, it is positive that we now have a strategy for dealing with this problem. We must continue to follow that work.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-1162	Mr President, I would like to It is very positive that we have these two reports, Non-toxic everyday life and water management, in succession on Wednesday evening. Chemicals used in different types of human activities are an important factor when it comes to environmental impact in our water areas. In my last speech, I spoke about the importance of phasing out dangerous chemicals that affect both us and the environment negatively. In this speech, I would instead like to highlight the work on substances that are good for us but a little worse for our waters, namely medicines and nutrients. In tests carried out by SLU in parts of Mälaren, several cases of mutated roach have been encountered. Up to 40 percent of the examined roach turned out to be bisexual. In the case of roach, residues of estrogen from hormones, among other things, contribute to the development of egg cells in the testicular tissue and thus become bisexual. Of course, it is not only fish that are affected, but if the fish are affected, we can assume that the substances also have an impact on other animals and, by extension, also on humans. Approximately half of the antibiotics with which humans and animals are treated are excreted in the urine in unchanged and active form. The antibiotic is then spread through sewage systems into water and soil, where it contributes to the enrichment of resistant bacteria. In total, the Swedish people throw large amounts of medicines into household waste every year, and thousands of pounds of drugs also reach our treatment plants annually through the sewers. Much is filtered out, but much continues into our watercourses. This not only affects roach but also affects us humans. Improving treatment plants' ability to handle medicines is therefore extremely important for both humans and animals. It is therefore important for the government to continue the work undertaken by the Alliance Government on the treatment of pharmaceutical substances and other persistent chemicals in wastewater and also to make efforts to reduce the amount of environmentally hazardous substances in our sewers. But there is also a need for power in upstream work. The use of medicines can be environmentally better with lower environmental impacts. Since 2006, all new medicines will be declared environmentally and the company will document effects on the environment during the development period. We therefore want the environmental declaration to form the basis for a visible eco-label for medicines, so that the consumer can make an active choice at the pharmacy or in the store. We also want medicines to be re-evaluated in the light of new research findings on environmental effects. Mr President, I would like to The Baltic Sea is one of the world's most sensitive seas, a sea with great problems. The amount of nutrients in the Baltic Sea has declined steadily since the 1980s, but the concentration of substances remains high. We must therefore continue to work to reduce leakages from activities in the Baltic Sea countries. Therefore, it is important that Sweden continues to work with concrete environmental measures for reduced leakage from, for example, agricultural land but also knowledge-raising measures such as Greppa the industry or local water conservation groups. It is also important to export the tried and tested environmental measures under the rural development programme as well as knowledge-raising projects to other countries around the Baltic Sea. An important solution is also to have a better cycle between sea and land and to increase the withdrawal of nutrients from the Baltic Sea in order to reduce the internal load. The future lies in new marine business models, such as mussel farming, marine biogas or the use of mussels as feed in chicken farming. This reduces the nutrients present in the Baltic Sea while creating new business opportunities for the green and blue industries. Mr President, I would like to Water conservation is not only important from an environmental point of view, but also necessary for us humans. Water is our most important food, and our access to good water will be a competitive advantage for Sweden when climate change makes water a scarce commodity in many parts of the world. We must, of course, take care of this resource. But I believe that a fundamental principle for all the care of important natural resources is the legitimacy of the people involved – that people feel involved and respected in the process. Beyond each measure and any change in rules and laws there is an individual person or company that is affected. Before I went to this House, I was one of the organisers of a seminar on the balance between conservation and property rights. Water was one of the issues that came up for discussion, not least linked to the small-scale water activities, on which there is currently a major discussion around Sweden. People in different parts of the country are genuinely desperate. A farmer contacted me yesterday and told me that he had a power plant that was required to carry out an MKB and apply for a new permit. The estimated cost of all measures was 10 million. Another told of an old dam that they restored a few years ago at a cost of about 1 million to keep the level set by the water judgment upstream. Now they must seek permission and take action, something they estimate will cost a few million. River de dam breaks the water judgment, which risks causing complications and possible economic impact for residents upstream. In other words, these entrepreneurs are sitting in a strong trap. After a lengthy process around the management cycle action programmes up to 2021, the government finally made a decision last year. It is reported that the announcement previously addressed to the Government by the Riksdag has been followed. That's very good. We also look forward to seeing how the government discusses the proposal on water activities announced in the autumn. However, we in the Center Party believe that it is now time to review the implementation of the EU Water Framework Directive. Such a review is also highlighted by the Environmental Objectives Committee in its 2014 report Focusing on environmental objectives – sustainable use of soil and water. It proposes a review of the organisation of the authorities and of the system of environmental quality standards for water. The aim is to create clearer and more efficient water management. According to the preparation, the whole system, i.e. regulation, organisation and administration, should be improved. The preparation considered that the system of environmental quality standards for water needs to be more effective and given a clearer structure. The division of responsibilities should be reviewed and action taken by operators should be simplified. I share the Environmental Objectives Committee's view. We are now in a new management cycle, and for 2021 it is important to see how the system can be improved. We need to have a management system where it is clear to those concerned what measures are needed and make a real difference and how they are to be financed, and where local dialogue, both during the preparation and implementation of the action plans, are key words – precisely in order to obtain both effective water management and legitimacy for this important care work. Another area in which we see the need for dialogue and an inclusive process and the legitimacy of water conservation measures from those concerned is the establishment of water protection areas. The drinking water investigation, which issued its final report last year, deals with the protection of our valuable water. Unfortunately, however, the issue of compensation is left unsolved. For the farmer who gets a water protection area on his land, it can have huge consequences for the company. The Center Party considers that it is an important principle that a property owner should be entitled to compensation due to decisions that involve the use of land or that ongoing land use within the relevant part of the property is significantly more difficult. We therefore believe that the issue of compensation for landowners in the establishment of water protection areas needs to be reviewed. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all the reservations that the Center Party has, but for the winning time I only ask for reservation 9 and reservation 12.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-1184	Mr President, I would like to We can already see that water conservation is an immensely large subject. It is about shipping, oil supply, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, eutrophication and so on. As I said, this is an enormous subject. It is also a very important subject. We're really talking about everything from the smallest small river to the oceans. It's about how to steer this up. These are rules, economic instruments and, not least, behaviour. After all, it is not the case that just because it is possible to flush down medicines in the toilet should do so and that the public should build a treatment plant that takes care of this. But of course it is important that we have treatment plants that can handle drugs as well. Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 2, which deals with environmental monitoring. But, of course, I also support reservation 9, where the Liberals are involved. It is about the EU Water Framework Directive. There are a number of problems that Liberals prioritise in their budget work. Marine environment and water issues are among them. We have targeted contributions to water-related environmental monitoring that we have put in. We also have this for beach cleaning, which we discussed in connection with the previous report. This is obviously in the grey zone between these reports. There is, of course, a clear link. You can discuss chemicals, or you can discuss them during water management. I'll leave it there for now. I expressed my thoughts and feelings very clearly before. We think that environmental monitoring is a very central part of environmental work. That is why we are proposing precisely a targeted initiative to the Maritime and Water Authority to strengthen marine and water-related environmental monitoring. I would also like to say that it is, of course, very welcome that the construction of the new research vessel is finally taking place. This is a prerequisite for environmental monitoring to work well in Swedish waters. Mr President, I would like to You can start where we left off in another debate almost a year ago. At the time, it was precisely the action programme to achieve the objectives of the WFD. In April 2016, we discussed that issue. The result was an announcement from the Riksdag to the Government. In that debate, the Liberals' starting point was that there should be no conflict between a good aquatic environment and competitively sustainable agriculture and forestry. It was a lot about this particular action programme. This announcement can stand to be repeated. It was all parties except the Left Party, I think. In the process, when drawing up action programmes, we must also be able to include the socio-economic costs, simply what implementation means for that part. Priority must be given to cost-effective measures. It is also a question of the need for impact assessments. What does this mean for rural businesses in terms of agriculture, water activities, forestry and so on? This process has now moved on, and the government has taken a decision on the action programmes during the autumn. The decision means that when water authorities establish action programmes, they must comply with certain requirements. These are balances, impact assessments, cost accounting, skills development and advice. That sounds pretty good so far, doesn't it? But now it's actually, as Kristina Yngwe was into, that you learn from the process that has been around the action programme 2015– 2021. It has been a very long and unclear process. That is precisely what reservation 9 is about: to look at the process itself. Funding is often a key element in this context, but it is also a question of incorporating the relevant instruments into an action programme. It's a lot about knowledge. Perhaps the most important thing is to have an effective dialogue with those concerned and to implement the action programme. We have the same starting point as before: there needs to be no contradiction between this and competitive agriculture and forestry. I can say with some pleasure that my former Socialist colleague on the Bohus bench in motions has expressed roughly the same thoughts on this. Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind you of another process under way, on which there is also an announcement. It is about developing relevant and effective permit processes for water activities within the framework of the Environmental Code. We can agree that we must have modern legislation and that it should be within the framework of the environmental code. Liberals have consistently argued that it is highly reasonable that all water activities and hydropower are licensed under the Environmental Code. However, it requires legislation to be redesigned and designed in such a way that it can be adapted to the size of different activities, so that we do not end up in the unreasonable situations described by Kristina Yngwe, among others. It is good that the government will include this announcement when it is working on a bill on the testing of water activities. It has been promised for quite a long time. It's been a long time for a number of reasons. I do not really see why, but that is the case, and it is presented. It is very unfortunate that it is taking time, because the problem is in the country, not least when it comes to the testing of small-scale hydropower. It has been said many times in this speaker's chair, both from my side and from others, that the authorisation process must not be so complicated and costly that the result is that the resources that could go to environmental measures are lost in the process itself. There are many relevant and perhaps relatively simple measures that can be implemented. These are fish migration routes, minimum flows and so on. This is what you really want to do, but you get caught up in the lengthy legal processes instead. Mr President, I would like to Liberals have a claim which this year is being dealt with in a simplified way. This concerns the importance of maritime planning, where the state and the municipality must be able to interact in order to balance different claims made at sea. I have no comment to make on the fact that it is being simplified – we discussed it last year. But that does not actually make the issue less topical. Maritime planning will be a particularly important tool when weighing different interests in the sea against each other. It is about how these interests then take into account the ecosystems and that we get sustainability over time. Although this particular request is being dealt with in a simplified way, it is an absolute requirement that we get this in place as soon as possible.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-1202	Mr President, I would like to The Baltic Sea is a world-unique brackish sea with a special ecosystem. Irregular variations in saltwater inflow lead to unstable conditions for species living in the sea. The slow rate of water metabolism means that toxins and other chemicals do not flow out of the inner sea to any significant extent but remain and are enriched. These circumstances make the Baltic Sea a particularly sensitive sea. It is therefore justified to take particular account of the environment and wildlife of the Baltic Sea. The main cause of algal blooms and dead bottoms is eutrophication. This is mainly caused by discharges from sewage and agriculture. It is important that the development of agriculture around the Baltic Sea takes place with great regard for the environment. Economic instruments can be a useful environmental policy instrument in the same way as in other areas. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that a system of transferable emission allowances for nitrogen and phosphorus could be tested in the Baltic Sea. Unlike Sweden, several countries extract oil in the Baltic Sea. An oil accident in this sensitive inland sea would have particularly serious environmental impacts. It also poses a serious threat to Sweden's coasts and the marine environment. The Swedish government should work within the EU and the Baltic Sea organisation Helcom to achieve a total ban on oil extraction in the Baltic Sea. The Baltic Sea is also an important transport route for ships, including oil transport. Oil spills from ships continue to cause problems in the Baltic Sea, making it all the more necessary to create clear incentives to avoid these emissions. Therefore, the fines for oil discharges should be increased. There is also a need to increase preparedness for potential disasters in the Baltic Sea region so that we can minimise possible damage. A provision should be introduced for all oil transported at sea to be DNA-labelled so that it can be traced from which the ship has been discharged. Alien organisms that accompany ships' ballast water from other seas pose a threat to biodiversity in the Baltic Sea. These so-called invasive species can multiply uncontrollably and displace native species. Therefore, all ports in the Baltic Sea as well as in the Western Sea should have ballast water reception facilities so that this water is not discharged into the sea. Mr President, I would like to As far as the issue of individual sewers is concerned, a regulatory framework must be put in place that really works. It shall be possible to continue the use of individual sewers in rural areas, but these, even when they are in collective settlements, shall be required to be upgraded to meet environmental and health requirements. The three laws that currently regulate water and sewage – the Environmental Code, the Construction Act and the Water Service Act – do not harmonize with each other. These laws need to be revised as soon as possible so that they work together. Today's legislation has become a major obstacle to housing construction outside urban areas, while at the same time the legislation makes it more difficult to take the necessary measures out of a large number of unapproved individual sewers. One problem is that the facility law's ability to co-operate legally clashes with the Water Service Act's requirement that it should always be municipal responsibility for water and sewage in the area, i.e. if there are at least 15 houses in the area. In the investigation that preceded the Act, there was room for municipalities to arrange water and sewage in accordance with the Construction Act where it was considered appropriate. However, this possibility was not included in the Water Services Act. Dealing with the consequences of these laws being incompatible costs both individual property owners and va-collective large sums of money, while making construction outside urban areas very difficult in rural areas. Weaknesses detected during inspections of sewers are sometimes associated with high costs for the municipality, and it happens because it prefers to refrain from checking. The result is unnecessary nutrient leakage into watercourses and soils, with negative environmental impacts. There is a need for incentives for municipalities to carry out regular monitoring of individual sewers. We therefore propose that in cases where breaches of the environmental code are detected in connection with the control of an individual drain, the penalty imposed on the property owner should apply to the municipality in question. Today, it falls to the state, while the municipalities have control responsibilities. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats have a total of five reservations in the report based on our committee motions. They concern emission allowances for the Baltic Sea, the management of ballast water, the ban on oil drilling in the Baltic Sea, sanctions for oil spills and the management of individual drains. In addition, we support motion 20 in motion 2016/ 17:2023 by Kristina Yngwe and Eskil Erlandsson, both Center Party. It is important that the implementation of the WFD be reviewed in order to create sustainable agriculture while protecting our waters. It is important that the action programmes do not lead to increased rules and limitations. We have a situation in which broad participation of parties has actually supported an increase in the profitability and production of Swedish agriculture, including through simplified rules and conditions. At the same time, we cannot have aggravating interpretations of the EU's water directive. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that I naturally agree with all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats, but in order to gain time, I choose only to endorse reservation 9 on the EU Water Framework Directive and reservation 10 on individual sewers.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-1219	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. I would like to begin my speech with a reflection. Some time ago I visited Kopparbergs Bryggeri, a well-known Swedish food industry company that has operations in Sweden and exports its products to the UK. I and those who were there had to answer the question: what do you think is the base, or the basis, for all that we do here at Kopparberg brewery? We tried to give some answers to the question. Someone talked about that it was good to be in the EU so that you could sell your products to the UK and some other things. But the answer was really good water. Without a really good water of high quality, the brewery would not have existed in Kopparberg. This clearly shows that good water should not be underestimated anywhere or in any context. The government prioritises four areas of environmental policy: climate action, a non-toxic environment, biodiversity and the marine and aquatic environment. The focus on the environment and climate in the Swedish budget is historically large, and this is also why the money for the sea and the environment has increased significantly – 100 million between 2015 and 2017. The Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management has also received money to manage the work. An important part of this is also a major effort to increase the protection of marine areas. In the 2017 budget proposal, the government strengthened the funding for the protection of the marine environment, and the government also recently decided on four new Natura 2000 sites in Sweden to protect the porpoise, a total of 1.3 million hectares. One of the new areas, the Hoburg bank and the Midsjö banks, is the largest area that Sweden has ever proposed as a Natura 2000 site. This is a decision that greatly strengthens the Swedish Natura 2000 network. We are now meeting the area target for the protection of 10% of marine areas, which is our commitment to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity. I would like to stress that we are able to achieve the objective, the quantitative target. I even think that's worth celebrating. Mr President, I would like to So to eutrophication, i.e. the emissions of substances that cause plankton and algae to grow uninhibited. We have all seen the consequences: large imbalances in our ecosystem that lead to algal blooms, that some species increase in number and others decrease and perhaps disappear, algae blooming with toxic bathing water and large areas with dead bottoms. The measures we have taken so far have reduced the load from land of nitrogen in the Baltic Sea. We are about to meet the requirements we have in the Baltic Sea Action Plan. However, when it comes to phosphorus, we have only passed 21% of the commitment for the Baltic Sea itself, so certainly we need to do more to reduce nutrient emissions from the source, that is, from land. However, fish farmers who bind with mussels and other surplus substances also make a major environmental effort, not least on the west coast. It shows that aquaculture can play a double role in creating both jobs and a better environment, because we also have to deal with the internal burden. With a bottom death in the Baltic Sea that to the surface is larger than both Denmark and Skåne, we cannot afford to refrain. We must be able to reduce the load both in the sea and from land. At the same time, we need a competitive agriculture in Sweden. The Government has recently presented a food strategy aimed at increasing total food production, while achieving relevant environmental objectives. In concrete terms, it is precisely here in marine environmental policy that two important interests stand out against each other, but we must do it. We must stop eutrophication and increase food production. These are challenges that we have taken on, and both are equally important. This means that we need to balance different interests but also have political courage and financial resources. A very important part of the work is the action programmes that the water authorities have now developed and which are part of how Sweden will pass the EU Water Framework Directive, called the Water Framework Directive. Here the government has taken account of the announcement made by an almost united committee. In addition, the Agency has presented 32 measures for a better marine environment and for achieving the objectives of the WFD. The rural development programme will be an important tool for achieving the objectives. We need to develop the rural development programme, and I think we need to increase support measures that reduce eutrophication. Then, of course, these voluntary commitments are reimbursed to agriculture. However, the government has said that there is a need to review instruments and other measures to reduce eutrophication. Other measures I would like to mention are the work of the Maritime and Water Authority on individual sewers. The proposals are now being prepared in the Government Office. We are also proud that we have achieved international regulations on passenger ships' emissions. The Barlast Convention will enter into force in 2017, and the government will be ready to assume it and make the commitments to be made. Mr President, I would like to For me from the Labour Party the Social Democrats, it is obvious to see that the marine environment is also crucial for jobs. Poor marine environment affects tourism and fishing and thus the opportunities for livelihood in coastal communities but above all our way of life, the possibility of outdoor life and quality of life. It is crazy that by 2050 we risk having more plastic than fish in our seas. We must stop the pollution of our seas. We must resolve once and for all the issue of responsibility for cleaning our beaches. It can't just be the coastal municipalities that take the fall for the huge amount of garbage that floats ashore. We have come a long way with the cooperation that now exists between the state and the municipality. It is good, but more responsibility needs to be taken, not least internationally, to reduce the amount of plastic. But it's not just large pieces of plastic floating ashore. Small, microscopic plastic particles swirl around the sea from cosmetic products, toothpaste and other things. On them are stuck toxic substances that damage our organisms in the sea. The government is now working for a ban on microplastics in cosmetic products, and that is welcome. Species that don't belong in our waters are spreading from human activities. We need to have a plan for how to stop this. The government is now preparing a bill on alien species. Crucial to life in the sea are the shallow bays and eel meadows, where the fish have their baby chambers. They must be protected from discharges such as excesses and from other environmental impacts as quickly as possible, otherwise life in the sea will be poor. Finally, I believe that the environment in our seas is the next major international environmental issue next to climate and biodiversity. This is also why Sweden and the Swedish Government, together with Fiji, are hosting the major international maritime conference in New York this summer. There, all the forces will come together to push for measures that live up to what we agree to achieve our seas and marine resources, more sustainable fishing, more marine protection, reduced marine pollution, food security, climate impact and much, much more – a conference to move from words to action, and it is led by Sweden. International work will be very important.
i-4c0e1c092e375d3f-1240	Mr President, I would like to We are now here to debate the report on water conservation. It's really a very big subject. Two thirds of the earth is covered with water. 98 percent of all water, almost a little more, is salt water, that is, sea. The oceans are very deep and have huge amounts of water. There are 1.3 billion cubic miles of water in the oceans. It's almost unimaginable. But bear in mind that we are 7 billion people on earth, and if everyone is to have their own share of the oceans, that means a fifth of cubic kilometres per person — 600 times 600 meters by 600 meters. Then it's not so much anymore; it's even gripable. I think most of our lakes are bigger than that. The fifth cubic mile of water that we have at our disposal will give us back all the ecosystem services that the sea provides us. Every second breath we take is oxygen produced in the ocean. That will be enough for our small fifth of cubic miles. Almost half of all animal protein eaten in the world comes from fish and from the sea. That's enough. It should also be enough for other things like recreation and so on. Then you realize that the seas are not so large and that you also have to help each other to make them enough. Maybe I'm lucky enough to get my fifth cubic mile near the coast, where most of the production takes place. But some poor man may get a fifth of a cubic mile [2,000 km] into the free waters. Then that person won't be satisfied, I can say, because there's not much going on. So we need to help each other to make the water enough and for the 1.3 billion cubic miles of water to be enough for everything we need. When you start thinking that way, you realize that the importance of international cooperation is incredibly great. In the new SDGs adopted by the UN, Agenda 2030, there was a target, Objective 14, which hung a little. It's about the sea. In fact, however, there is no international organisation, no UN body, that manages the sea. Two thirds of the entire earth's surface has no organization of its own. Then Sweden entered, together with Fiji, which is greatly affected by what is happening, and said: We can take care of the infrastructure for this. We can be a facilitator, because we're good at that. So Sweden, together with Fiji, will now host a conference in New York on June 5. When you started talking about it barely two years ago it was said that it will be the biggest conference ever in the UN House with another host. Then it was almost 5,000; now it is soon up to 8,000. It's village father's biggest conference. It is incredibly important that we have this conference, because we need cooperation. In this debate we have talked about waste and poisons. They come from other countries, and we must help each other. The first entry Sweden has in the conference is to lift up the poor countries so that they are able to have a good maritime policy. It is difficult to establish good control programmes for fisheries and environmental monitoring, for example, if you cannot afford ordinary infrastructure, such as schooling, to your residents. I was in Senegal, which is not so poor, and the great port city of Dakar. One of the beaches I visited in the 1970s was named one of the world's top ten beaches. Now they had to take out the shovel to dig out the sand; it was only plastic. The littering is the second thing that Sweden wants to lift up and how we can access the plastic with the help of international agreements. The third point of the Swedish delegation is the unsustainable use of fish resources. Up to 70% of all food fish stocks are fished just on the border or beyond the limit of what they can tolerate, and it continues. 3 billion people depend on fish from the sea as their protein source. Then we cannot have unsustainable fishing that makes it smaller and smaller fish; it must become more and more. The fourth on Sweden's list is that you have to see the link between climate and the sea. We heard the Member from the Moderates say that the sea absorbs much of the carbon dioxide. That's right. However, it is not true that there is not much research on it, because there is quite a lot of research on sea acidification. The sea can buffer the carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, and the sea has become 25 percent acidier since measuring began. The pH is a logarithmic scale, so therefore there are quite large differences although it may not be noticed on the pH scale itself. An acidic sea affects a lot. Acid dissolves lime, and much in the sea contains lime. The usual silico-algae, which makes the oxygen we breathe, consists of two calcareous shells. Fish mountains consist of lime. Sea stars, shrimps and mussels all have lime structures on the outside of the body and now live in a more acidic sea. Even if we were to end all CO2 emissions today, we have so much in the atmosphere that it will continue to be buffered in the sea for 50 to 80 more years. So this is something we really need to do, and that is why I am glad that we are also lifting up the climate and the sea. I look forward to the international work that will be done. I think that's the key. But we must also show at home that we are serious and clean our own doors. An example of this was when the government decided on 14 December 2016 on four new protected areas for porpoises, which led us to come up with the objective of protecting marine areas. Now, of course, there is still the right function and so on, but it was a milestone that this was done. We have also stepped up the pace for the existing protection to be as good as possible and allocated 15 million this year to work on the creation of these protected marine areas. We have also increased environmental protection money. The new ship, mentioned by the Liberals, will be an important part of environmental monitoring. The influence of food has also been at the forefront of the debate. How the farmer produces food is one thing, but how we prepare the food also matters. Over the last ten years we have added as much phosphorus to the ready food as the wetlands we have built take up, 30 tons. We can't have that. I hope that the food strategy and action plan that has been put forward can be a good help in overcoming this. It looks a little bad. Of the UN Sustainable Development Goals in Agenda 2030, the marine target is the only one with a negative trend and not going up. So we need this pool of forces, and I am pleased that Sweden is taking on the responsibility of doing it internationally as well as in the EU and at home.
i-PCBukmrqmST8TPDnfkW8fA	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for approval of the Left Party motion, 2016/ 17:1989, motion 4, concerning common sewage solutions for individual sewers. As has been said in several speeches, the Baltic Sea is severely affected by both old sins and ongoing environmental degradation. It is commonly said that the Baltic Sea is one of the world's most polluted seas. The facts speak for themselves. It is dead bottoms, algal blooms in the summer, depletion of certain species and eutrophication and emissions that unfortunately continue. We must do something about this, and that is what we are debating now. One issue that is somewhat forgotten in the debate is the so-called individual sewers. It is sewage that is not connected to the municipal waste water networks and municipal wastewater treatment plants. There are about 1 million sewers that are not connected, and about 700,000 of them are water-based sewers. Thousands of these have emissions that are far too large and are actually illegal. The Maritime and Water Authority has on several occasions presented measures to the Government, but the Government has not returned any proposals. We in the Left Party find this odd, and we hope that the government will come up with concrete proposals as soon as possible. The emissions of phosphorus from the individual sewers are significant. Emissions are about the same as all other household emissions combined, i.e. the more than 90 per cent of household sewage connected to municipal wastewater treatment plants. Åar, lakes and other watercourses are severely affected by these discharges. It can also be considered whether we can find new financing solutions to deal with the individual drains. Can we make greater use of LOVA money, or can we find any new, creative funding for this? Agriculture is otherwise the main cause of eutrophication of the Baltic Sea. There is usually talk of various technical and agricultural measures to address these emissions, such as the construction of wetlands and the planting of plants that capture nitrogen and phosphorus. All of this is important, but we may be making it a little too difficult for us. Sometimes the solutions are closer than we think, namely in ourselves, in our own consumption. I refer to a report from the Marine Environment Institute which came in 2015 and which talks about the consumption of animal species, mainly meat. It has a strong strain on the eutrophication of the Baltic Sea. We imagine that the faeces that goes into our sewers will be purified, and it will largely do so if we talk about municipal sewers. However, as I mentioned earlier, there is also a large amount of individual sewers. Then not all nitrogen and phosphorus are caught in the treatment plants we have. It is simply the case that if we can reduce our meat consumption, this will reduce the eutrophication of the Baltic Sea. That is why we in the Left Party of the report have a motion in which we want an action plan for reducing eutrophication and reducing the climate impact of the food chain. It is precisely the reduction in meat consumption that is crucial. Mr President, I would like to One of the advantages of being last on the list in the debate is that you have listened to what everyone else has said. I would very much like to agree with what Emma Nohrén from the Green Party said in her speech on plastic and that something must be done. At the same time, I think that the government has been poking around long enough on this issue. What has now been proposed is that trade should inform about the negative impact of plastic bags on the environment. I do not think that is perhaps the sharpest knife to draw on this issue, Emma Nohrén. Is there nothing sharper that the government can come up with? I spoke earlier with a social democrat who said maybe you should have a ban on plastic bags-- well, maybe that -- or a tax on plastic bags. This has been introduced in several countries, which has led to a significant reduction in consumption of plastic bags. I want to see a little more action from the government. Matilda Ernkrans from the Social Democrats was proud that Sweden is now achieving the 10% target for the protection of the sea. It's great, but it's a quantitative target. We also have a qualitative objective which I do not think is being achieved at all. Is it really representative surfaces that we are talking about? Are there large continuos surfaces? And what exactly do our marine reserves look like when it comes to, for example, fishing and bottom trawling? We allow bottom trawling in almost all our nature reserves at sea. Is it a sustainable policy? No, we in the Left Party don't think so. We think it should be obvious not to allow bottom trawling in nature reserves at sea. What do the Social Democrats think on this issue? Lars-Axel Nordell of the Christian Democrats spoke of a ban on oil extraction in the Baltic Sea. We in the Left Party agree – that is a very good proposal. Roland Gustbée from the Moderates said that they want to broaden the LOVA support so that it can also go to the cleaning of beaches, if I understood correctly. I think that sounds interesting, but at the same time the proposal sounds a little hollow. When you look at the Moderates' draft budget, you see that they want to cut by more than SEK 2 billion on the important environmental and climate budget. Then this may not be the most priority measure. We need more money for environmental clean-up and environmental work overall. Why is that not something the Moderates suggest? Lars Tysklind of the Liberals spoke about environmental monitoring and that it is important. Then I would like to say something similar to the Moderates: then why are you cutting so much down on the environmental budget? You are also going down by over SEK 2 billion. In addition, you are reducing by SEK 49 million precisely on the appropriation for environmental monitoring. It is something that is not connected in bourgeois politics. You mean well and say fine things, but when it comes to real decisions, you fall short. I'm afraid you can't be trusted. With those words, Mr President, I would like to thank you for that.
