i-23ecd362474a0c7e-4	Mr President, I would like to The report that the Committee on Defence has now taken to the House deals with the most important link in Swedish military defence, namely its staff. It is almost seven years since this House decided to suspend the obligation of total defence in Sweden, Mr President. We did so in 2010. In retrospect, there are quite a lot of people who perceive the decision made by the House at the time as a – excuse the expression – extraordinaryly stupid decision. However, it should be said that, in the years before the duty was deactivated, we had a situation in which far more people wanted to do military service than we were able to make room for, Mr President. It is probably a good Swedish constitutional practice to prefer voluntaryity to coercion against citizens. It's usually called the principle of proportionality. Quite soon, however, the picture of the transition to voluntary human resources was that we were able to recruit a great deal of soldiers and train them – but not keep them. In 2014, the Defence Committee carried out its own independent follow-up of the staffing situation in the four-year-old intervention organisation. It turned out quite clearly that we did not manage to recruit more than almost half of the soldiers we needed on a voluntary basis. Added to this may also be that military service before it was deactivated was undermined by a wide range of governments – most actually Social Democratic. In the 1990s we abolished the rope exercises, which meant that once a soldier was trained and left the regiment for muck he or she would never come back again. The war unit exercises were no longer there. Early in the '00s, we abolished both platoon officers and company officers' trainings, and in the last few years of duty – which then covered only 10 per cent of the male vintage – guard soldiers were the most important position among conscripts. It was an education that did not even qualify for international service. What do you learn from this? Well, Mr President, there is an old good expression which reads: no idea is so good that it cannot be destroyed during implementation. It is important that, now that the duty is again activated by government decisions in spring 2017, we remember just this: All reforms are in a position to go wrong in different directions. I hope that both the government and the Swedish Armed Forces are now approaching a system that will consist of both duty-provoking staff and volunteers with the greatest humility. It is not least against this background that I must nevertheless express that it is remarkable that the government chooses not to anchor the decision to activate military service in the Swedish parliament, among the Swedish elected representatives. For many years, the current Minister of Defence stood in this speaker's seat in this House and strongly attacked the fact that an alliance government in 2010, with four votes margin, decided on voluntary human resources. Now I can see that the same person, now the Minister for Defence of the present government, does not even choose to take the matter to the House. Somewhere I can also understand – and now I change the subject, Mr President, to veteran politics – that there are Social Democrats who find it difficult to grasp the idea of a veteran policy precisely for the military. However, it is more than difficult for me to understand that we are also reluctant to give civil servants who are currently in the world the same conditions as military veterans and military personnel. Mr President, I would like to I spoke at a seminar a few years ago where there was also a woman who served as an Ebola nurse in Liberia. She spoke about her work situation – about her loneliness and vulnerability and about the physical risks associated with her service, as well as the wear and tear she experienced. It was quite obvious to me that it was basically the real experience of our military veterans in Afghanistan, for example. That is why it will be difficult for me that you in the labour movement, which has always fought for equal conditions for equal work, so consistently say no to reasonable terms, reasonable support, reasonable help and reasonable recognition also in the case of nurses, firefighters, police officers and other personnel serving on behalf of the Swedish state internationally. There are many civil servants who have paid the ultimate price for their service abroad, both in Afghanistan and most recently in the Democratic Republic of Congo. We all know the tragedy that happened to Zaida Catalán. These people are vulnerable, and I believe it is your duty in this House to stand up and give them the same recognition and support as our military veterans. That being the case, Mr President, I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 12.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-14	Mr President, I would like to We must relate to reality as it is. That is right and certainly not least when it comes to such important and long-term issues as defence and security policy. A new, impaired normal image has been established. We are facing a deteriorating security situation in our neighbourhood for a few years now, and strengthening Sweden's defence capabilities is one of the most important tasks for us politicians across the political spectrum. We see an aggressive Russia that is becoming increasingly authoritarian and does not respect the borders of other countries. There is a Europe before the illegal annexation of Crimea and another Europe after the illegal annexation of Crimea. People are injured and killed by the violence of foreign power directed against Ukraine. In addition to this, there are other major concerns in the outside world that have a negative impact on Sweden's safety. These include the development of the European Union and the challenge of populist forces, a new American administration in Washington DC whose security policy line is not yet quite clear – to put it mildly – and the breakdown and radicalisation of the countries of the southern neighbourhood of Europe. I am therefore proud, as a moderate, to have contributed to the defence in the spring change budget receiving 500 million extra, here and now. The Moderates were clear in January that we wanted to see more resources for the defence during this defence decision-making period, of which 500 million already in 2017. It was like we said. Now there is reason to push for more measures to strengthen our defence capabilities; it will be clear to the Moderates in the further negotiations on the defence economy. Mr President, I would like to A crucial aspect in order to guarantee Swedish defence capabilities and strengthen operational capabilities is that there is a functioning staff supply. This is particularly true in view of the deteriorating security situation. We can also note that the provision of voluntary staff has not fully functioned as intended when it was introduced. We must be clear about this when it comes to dealing with reality. We Moderates have also been self-critical. The Moderates agree that the duty has been reactivated in ways that are now taking place and that a small number of conscripts may be taken out each year to supplement those who voluntarily seek military basic training. This is done to meet the target of 4,000 basic graduates per year that the Swedish Armed Forces currently set as the desired level. This mixed system of voluntary and military service creates better conditions for a long-term sustainable system. Hopefully, military service can also lead to more people becoming aware of the possibility to take up employment in the Swedish Armed Forces as a full-time or part-time soldier or seaman, and not least as a Home Guard. In addition, there is a need to get more people to choose the officer's track. Today we see because of retirement and other a loss of about 200 officers a year against only 150 coming in. However, it is important to be clear that voluntary activity continues to form the basis for the defence's personnel supply. This was also the starting point for the investigation which last autumn presented the proposal for reactivated military service. Volunteering ensures that we can have a high level of preparedness and availability with competent units that are well-kept. This is something that is important in order to be able to have a high level of preparedness in, for example, Gotland and other strategically important places. The needs of the Armed Forces must be the basis for the supply of personnel. In this context, it can also be noted that the reactivated military service does not solve the problem of staff who terminate their contracts prematurely. Therefore, in future, the Armed Forces must strengthen their efforts to recruit volunteers who wish to take up employment as a soldier or seamen in the armed forces. From the Moderates' side, we have pointed out the importance of the defense offering an interesting overall package for young men and women who would consider working in the Armed Forces. It is about everything from meaningful exercises to salaries and benefits. Compulsory service was suspended by decision here in the Riksdag. A majority with an overweight of three Members – I think it was three, Mr President – voted in favour. It was entirely in accordance with the proposal of a former united defence committee with members from all the then parliamentary parties. Since then, as Mr Widman pointed out, there has been a complaint from the Socialist side that such a decision was made with such a small amount of overweight. But when you reactivate, Mr President, the Red-Green Government does not even return to Parliament. The change will be the subject of a conversation with the Secretary of Defense in his department. Is it to show respect to Parliament and Parliament? Mr President, I would like to In a few days, it will be May 29th and thus veteran day. With great pride, I note that the Moderates have made a strong contribution to the fact that the Riksdag recently expressed its view that this should be a flag day. It is a way of showing respect for all those who served Sweden and our nation's interests both as military and civilian. One party after another, with the exception of the Left Party, has also come to subscribe to this attitude. It is gratifying not for me, for my party or for the House, but because we together honor and respect our veterans. Mr President, I would like to My colleague Jan R Andersson will in his speech in a moment develop the various individual parts of the moderate movements we have raised in order to create a good and functioning staff supply for the Swedish Armed Forces. For my part, I am in favour of reservation 5 from the collective Alliance.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-26	Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I only apply for reservation 1. In 2010, when the Swedish Democrats were new to the Riksdag, we were the only ones who wanted to reintroduce invasion defence and military training. We were mocked at our politics. Protecting one's own territory in the first place was out of date. Using the duty to broaden the responsibility for defence to a larger part of the population was out of fashion. Now all parties have turned to the policy we already had seven years ago. What distinguishes us from at least six of the other parties is that we realise that an invasion defense will cost at least twice as much as the intervention defense. I say six parties because the Liberals have shown that they are prepared to budget for rehabilitation. As far as the other parties are concerned, it will become clear this autumn whether or not you intend to budget more for the structure of the invasion defence. The rate that the so-called defence group, the government with supporting parties, has given for the appropriations for defence, SEK 1 billion more per year, is not enough. It would take more than 50 years before Sweden again has 2% of GDP in defence. An annual increase in the defence budget of SEK 5 billion more per year would be more appropriate. With our geostrategic position, there is no reason for us to be the only nation in northern Europe that does not equip. When we support the defense with personnel, it is with different categories of personnel. Previously we had professional officers, reserve officers and conscript officers as well as conscript officers and soldiers. After the alliance parties voted out of military training on 18 May 2010 in the Riksdag, we received a new system of officers, specialist officers, reserve officers and GSS contractors. The GSS contracts were created in two ways: time and continuity. In the course of the process, it has been decided that the ground defence should if barrels take only two brigades, each of which is supplied with continuously counter-ktered personnel, so-called GSS/K. This brigade is complete with equipment and personnel and has all of Sweden as a defence area. The second brigade will be supported by periodically contracted staff, so-called GSS/T. This latter brigade is not yet complete. The army's withdrawn capability shall be to be able to manoeuvre and beat an opponent in a force ratio of t three to one. So with the brigade we have, we can strike a reinforced battalion. When the second brigade is in place, we will be able to strike two reinforced battalions.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-33	As everyone knows, it didn't happen. IO 14 was seriously delayed. However, the Alliance government did not take any action but made the longest attempt to demonstrate that the situation was under control. It was only this autumn that the Moderates acknowledged that training of conscripts is necessary to save the situation. It has thus proved difficult to achieve the right numeraries on the time contracts. The target for the entire IO 14 was 6 200 GSS/ K and 9 900 GSS/ T for all defence branches. It was already noticed in the 2014 projections that the IO 14 would be late by nine years, when the goal of GSS/T seemed to be reached only in 2023. One problem is that the GSS/T soldier cannot require his employer to be given leave to serve in the Swedish Armed Forces. When conscripts in the old system received notice orders for refresher training, there was nothing to discuss. It was at that time duty to participate. But also the GSS/K contracts have had an alarming trend, as between 14 and 19 per cent of the contractors have left their position prematurely each year. It ended, as you know, with the Swedish Armed Forces having to start re-training former conscripts trained in order to be able to replenish the units with personnel. After Annika Nordgren Christensen completed her excellent personnel supply investigation last autumn, the government decided on 2 March this year to re-establish the obligation to sign and implement basic training with military service. Thus, the failed and dangerous experiment of ceasing the training of conscripts is now completely completed. We have always been able to see how partial military service in Norway and Denmark has played an important role. It is not just a question of filling up units with conscripts and group officers, it is also a question of bringing more citizens on the military track. Many of those who complete military training will sign contracts as continuous group officers, soldiers and sailors. Others will sign Home Guard contracts or fit in as civilians in the total defense. Still others will apply to the officers' programs. It is good that duty is the focus. In essence, defending one's country should not be voluntary. There is today a discussion about what is the definition of a defence that is popular. I believe that it must be linked to readiness to act. We must be prepared to defend Sweden with arms in hand, although the outcome of the war may seem uncertain. Then we are back to the old solidarity Sweden again, but with modern foremarks. Another area of the Armed Forces personnel supply that may prove to contain some traps is the officer training. My good colleague, Mr Richtoff, will highlight this later in his speech.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-43	Mr President, I would like to First, as a politician, let me admit a mistake. During my speech, I supported the Alliance's reservation under paragraph 5, but it is called reservation 9. I therefore call for the approval of reservation 9. If I had asked for the approval of reservation 5, as I happened to say, it would have been the reservation of the Swedish Democrats, and that was not my intention. I may also apologise to Mikael Jansson if he finds it offensive of me to have approached his reservation. But I'm withdrawing from that redoubt. Mr President, I would like to I read in the report from the motion by Mikael Jansson and others. It says that all young men in one year's age group will be on board, voluntarily for women, and that the Riksdag will announce this to the government. Mr President, I would like to What decade is Mikael Jansson in? I think there are many of us who are extremely proud of the women and men who serve Sweden and the Swedish Armed Forces. Even when we now partially reactivate the duty, it applies equally to Swedish men and women. Then I have to ask the question: How do the Swedish democrats think when they say that all young men in one year class should be patterned, but that it should be voluntary for women? Why do you only look at half of the population and not the interest of the whole country?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-46	Mr President, I would like to That the Moderates, even if it is by mistake, can consider voting for a Swedish democratic reservation is positive, because we Swedish democrats are voting for your reservations and motions when we think they are good. You haven't been ready for that so far. But it can start with a mistake and perhaps continue with a conscious effort later. You've opened the door to negotiate, so maybe it wasn't all wrong. The fact that we want all young men to sign up and undergo a short three-day training is to bring the population together. Today we tend to have a broken society if we are not in solidarity with each other. We have difficulties with the integration of the mass immigrant and so on, and at that time military service and defence can be a tool to keep the country together. By patterning all young men and allowing them to attend a three-day course in uniform, we believe that the population is being brought together. We think that is both modern and correct.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-49	Mr President, I would like to I would really like to emphasise that, when I called for the approval of reservation 5 instead of 9 it was a mistake, and I hope that it will not be repeated in any way. The President has my guarantee of that. Mr President, I would like to Mikael Jansson says that the obligation to appoint all young men is to bring the population together and that it would be modern. Mr President, I would like to Can Mikael Jansson develop what is modern about bringing the entire population together when half the country is allowed to do so voluntarily and the other half, the young men in one year class, are going to sign up? What's so modern about this? What brings together and heals? Mr President, I would like to In my world, it's kind of uncult, and it's not entirely, but very half and limping.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-53	Mr President, I would like to Modernly, I say, because in young people there is a greater understanding among young men of the duty to participate in a common defence of the country, while many young girls think it should perhaps be only for those who feel that they are mature. If you take into account the history of the world, you can see that the armies have usually consisted of men, and that is because men can meet the physical demands of soldier life. I don't think it's strange, and I don't think the public thinks it's strange, that you have a pattern for all young men but that it's voluntary for the girls. When we develop the total defense, there will certainly be room for many girls as well, and many may also join this course voluntarily.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Human resources is an important area and a major challenge for the Swedish Armed Forces. We are working to take steps towards better staffing and to solve the needs of recruitment and staffing. Total defence obligation with recruitment to the Swedish Armed Forces in peacetime ended in 2010. Recruiting would instead be based on voluntary activity. But it has always been possible to reactivate the obligation of total defence if the world situation requires it. The plea may be said to have been set aside rather than abolished, as some claim. Then the security situation has changed in the world and also in our neighbourhood. At the same time, it is a reality that the Swedish Armed Forces have not been able to recruit what was the goal of soldiers but also officers in recent years. We see that there is a need for staffing both on the officer side and on the staff side. Basic for Swedish defence capabilities is that we have a good staff supply and a long-term plan and preparedness. The overall picture is therefore currently serious. We need to make decisions in the near future in order to achieve better results in the longer term. The Center Party basically wants to see a recruitment based on volunteering, where motivation and good incentives attract individuals to the defense. Due to the deteriorating security policy situation, the government decided in March to reintroduce the obligation to sign and carry out basic training with military duty. The Center Party believes that this is reasonable and supports the decision. Total defence obligations will be required to sign on 1 July, and from New Year the basic education will be required to sign up. It will be a combination of voluntary and duty, and it applies equally to both sexes. The recruitment authority is in full swing in developing its work and organisation to meet this needs picture and to succeed better with recruitment in relation to the objectives that apply. The emergency data sent out to those who turn 18 during the year has a response rate of 95 per cent. The recruitment authority may also call the 5 per cent who have not responded to the contingency base. The selection made after the various tests is important. It is the most suitable ones to be chosen. Those concerned must also be registered in Sweden. The recruitment authority's reports from the first months of the year show that interest in military basic education has increased compared to the beginning of 2016. There are more applications and more approved rekrytts. There are also more people who make an appointment for signing. In 1996 22 273 out of 95 677 replied that they were motivated to move forward in contact with the Swedish Armed Forces. This means that many people are motivated and fit to enter an education now that the target is 4 000 per year. It is not always easy because you do not have the option to cancel the appointment. But it is possible to reschedule and thus find another time. In the survey that came last autumn, different levels were presented for what will be required to get a good staffing in the near future. The defence committee needs to take this very seriously and present targets for 2021, 2022, 2023 and 2024. Estimates have also been presented that it would cost at least 2 billion per year more if we were to train 8 000 per year. It is important for the Center Party to find a system that solves the Swedish Armed Forces' recruitment needs and that you get strong incentives and far-reaching volunteering. Gradually increasing the volume of training requires infrastructure. This requires, among other things, premises, training areas and equipment, but also officers and instructors. At present, the Swedish Armed Forces have no more instructors available than the ability to train a volume of 4,000 per year. The size of the number of officers is crucial if in a few years' time we will succeed in changing up and increasing the number of trained. This issue needs to be discussed and decided over the next few years in order to recruit and train more officers, but also to have a staff fill in relation to the retirement rate prevailing in the Swedish Armed Forces. Proposals and initiatives are needed in good time to meet both current and future objectives. It requires foresight and long-term thinking. It is also important for the government to take initiatives on these issues and focus on increasing recruitment of personnel and, above all, on enabling sufficient recruitment on the officers' side. One way is to offer all continuous employees permanent employment. You can focus more on recruiting GSS officers and even soldiers for officers. One can also increase the focus on hiring more officers who have previously served in the Swedish Armed Forces. The redundancy we seek in the service of officers is important. We run the risk of getting a big gap between 20 and 25 years ahead of time due to previous job freezes and that too few people are being recruited. 27 per cent of those who have graduated from the operational programme since 2010 did not have an officer's position on 1 January 2016. It is therefore more than a quarter of those who joined the operational programme. This becomes acute, and the risk is that already negative figures will be even more negative in a few years' time. The examination objective for the operational programme for the current period, 2016– 2019, is 150, and last autumn 119 started on the programme. We know that 73 officers graduated last year. Over the next 15 years, it is estimated that 250 on average retire each year. This is a challenge for the Swedish Defence Committee, the Government and the Riksdag to focus on and manage. Let us look at how the Swedish Armed Forces are perceived as an employer and how attractive it is to enter a position in the Swedish Armed Forces. In a comparison between different government agencies in 2016, the Swedish Armed Forces had an index of 21. The average was 25. The police had 30. This is what some say about how people perceive the Swedish Armed Forces in relation to other authorities. Therefore, it must also be a clear focus on improving the attractiveness and perception of the Swedish Armed Forces. There are also challenges in the long term when it comes to recruitment to the Home Guard. Many who enter the Home Guard have previously served in the duty system. That also applies to officers. If we look 5, 10 or 15 years ahead, the challenges are bigger. Today it looks good. To finish or stop their regular work today in order to train for a few months in the Home Guard has a price. It is necessary to replace the person concerned for his/her educational contribution if he/she is a few years old and is able to serve. This is important for Swedish defence capabilities. It is also about surface coverage in a whole-country perspective. There are more areas to talk about, such as wage setting and career paths, but I will stay here and ask for the approval of reservation 4.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-76	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing the Defence Committee's report No 4, Some questions about the staff of the Armed Forces. In my speech, I will deal with human resources and veteran issues. However, first of all, I would like to support paragraph 5 of reservation 9. A defence force consists essentially of men, materiel and exercises. That is why it is important that we discuss the supply of personnel. You could say that the Armed Forces are its personnel. We have to admit that we have serious challenges here. Human resources have not functioned satisfactorily. We have had problems with full-time employees not staying as long as we had planned, and in the case of part-time workers it has not been planned at all. Just as Allan Widman was on when he was standing in the speaker's chair, this means that we have not come up to the numeraries at all as it was intended. There have not been nearly as many recruits as it was planned on a voluntary basis. This has a major impact on our defence capabilities. It is true that the government has changed the rules so that we can now have rope exercises. However, we must remember that these are soldiers who were in perhaps ten years ago. This has great consequences in ability, for it is by practicing that we get an ability. It'll be as bad as a football team, a brass band or whatever you don't want to practice – it won't be good. In a tough situation, it becomes very risky, especially when it comes to the security of Sweden, which we are talking about now, and to be able to defend our country. It is therefore important that changes are underway. We should have done as Norway and Denmark from the outset, namely, combined volunteering with duty. But now this is happening, and that is good. It is important that the change comes about so that we can fill up the units enough so that they can practice for real – practice war. This is what the Swedish Armed Forces ultimately means: to be able to defend in a crisis or a war situation. We all hope that this will never happen, but by having a threshold ability increases the chances that we will never have to use this. That's where staff supply comes in as an important part. One thing the Christian Democrats have been advocating for a long time is that we introduce bonuses and premiums so that the staff stay. It's simple, really: What's in it for me? You have to be able to see what benefits there are. There we are far too bad – all other countries that have full-time soldiers have this. Sweden is the only country that does not have it, and that is a contributing factor in ending prematurely. If the new staff supply system is to work, it must be in place. It is a shortcoming that the government has not come to the fore on this point. It is important to ensure that you can take leave of study, which we discuss in our reservation, and in different ways open opportunities so that you can combine your life with the Swedish Armed Forces. It is also possible to introduce a system in which student debt is waived if you want to study. It's about finding benefits that make the staff stay. We all get that. It is very important that the government takes this on board if the reform is to be as successful as it needs to be. This concerns Sweden's security, Mr President. Then there are the veteran questions. Allow me to express my greatest admiration and gratitude here from the speaker's chair to all thousands of soldiers who have gone out on our behalf and made peace-keeping efforts. Since 1948 – for 69 years – we have sent out soldiers. They have done great work, but we have not taken care of them enough when they have come home. A lot has been damaged physically but even more psychologically. It's a big flaw. In America, for example, there is a huge difference when it comes to their veterans. You take care of them, respect them, and venerate them. Now this is changing a little in Sweden. The Christian Democrats have fought for a veteran centre to be set up, and I hope that the government will have this done after the announcement by the Committee on Defence. It is a good thing that we have finally had a veteran's day on 29 May. Finally! It is developing and will now become a flag day. Regrettably, the government is dragging this into the long line, unnecessarily. The least we can do is show gratitude and respect for those who have taken risks in defending and preserving peace. In these words, I thank you for that.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-88	Mr President, I would like to We are in a troubled time in a troubled world. In order for the Swedish Armed Forces to strengthen their capabilities, personnel is required. It requires more skilled soldiers, sailors, pilots and officers who can handle the tough tasks and change the threat images. In recent years, an average of 1 500 seats on basic military training have remained empty. It was an untenable situation. If we are to have a staff supply that works not only today but also tomorrow, we cannot make ourselves dependent on those who did military service ten years ago. A robust system requires a steady inflow of people. That is why the government decided on 2 March this year that total defence obligations should be required to undergo a survey and complete basic education with duty. Although it is still voluntary that forms the basis of the system, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Recruiting Authority now have tools to ensure that the places in the training are filled. A bonus with the duty system is that it makes young people, regardless of gender, have to decide whether they feel that military training is something for them. On a visit to a recreation center earlier this spring, I ended up in the middle of such a conversation. The letter on the alert base had just been sent to all young people in the area born in 1999. Now a number of students were born in 2000 and discussed how they should stand and answer when it comes to the preparedness base next year. In fact, they may think that an education in the Armed Forces could be interesting and something for them. These are young people who otherwise probably would not have thought of going through an education in the Swedish Armed Forces. Due to the reactivation of military service, this is now an obvious topic of conversation at recreation centres around Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Following the introduction of the new staffing system in 2010, we have stood with a large proportion of empty chairs. Instead, we now have a system that creates flexibility and long-termism. This decision is only one in a series of decisions that have been taken to strengthen the Swedish Armed Forces' capabilities and create a stronger personnel supply system. In 2016, just over 1,000 people completed refresher training courses in eleven locations in Sweden. Only at Lv 6 in Halmstad, 400 people completed refresher training. The fact that these people have been able to carry out refresher training is important for the Swedish Armed Forces' ability, because for the first time they can practice with full units. This could not be done before the government decided to reactivate the repetition obligation in autumn 2014. Thus, during the years of government power, the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government has made several important decisions to add more tools to the toolbox in order to fill the war units and have a long-term functioning personnel supply system. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats believe that military service is a tool for securing personnel supply to the Swedish Armed Forces. The difference between the Swedish Democrats and the Social Democrats is that the Swedish Democrats think that more than half of the citizens should be left out of the system. Instead of starting from which are best suited among all Swedish citizens in one year's run, the Swedish Democrats exclude half the population as women should not be part of the system. Instead of assessing who is actually best suited to perform the task, both on the basis of will and on the basis of ability, it is gender that is crucial for the Swedish Democrats. Compulsory service is an important tool for strengthening and securing Sweden's defence. We build our security together. Through military service, we can identify who would best contribute to the Swedish Armed Forces and thus to the defence of Sweden. For us Social Democrats it is obvious not to make a difference based on gender, that it is the ability that should be crucial and that men and women are equally important to maintain Swedish security. But this is not the case for the Swedish Democrats. Instead, the Swedish democrats believe in a quota of men, where sex takes precedence over ability. Mr President, I would like to The views of the Swedish democrats on human resources are even more remarkable given that they themselves do not seem to know what they want. In their budget motion, the Swedish Democrats believe that the appointment should be both mandatory and voluntary for women. The Swedish Democrats say in the report's statement that all young men in one year's age group should be on the ground – for women, this is voluntary. Here, therefore, the Swedish Democrats propose that all men in one year's term should sign, while it should be voluntary for women. In their reservation, in which the Swedish Democrats therefore justify why they think the committee should say yes to this proposal, which I read out, they write: ..................................................... In this version, it should therefore also be mandatory for women to sign up. Instead, in this version, the dividing line is the actual educational performance, which should then be voluntary for women. When the Swedish Democrats vote on their proposal this afternoon, they will therefore vote in one and the same button pressure both in favour and in favour of compulsory recruitment for all women. This contradictory response from the Swedish Democrats is therefore contained both in the report we are deciding on today and in the Swedish Democrats' budget motion. I understand that this must sound a little messy for those of you who are listening. And messy is exactly what the policy of the Swedish Democrats is. For some reason, the Swedish Democrats always seem to find it difficult to explain what they think. But this may happen when you are a populist party and are more eager to explain that everyone else thinks wrong than to formulate a serious and concrete policy. Personnel supply is the whole basis for Swedish security. Managing Swedish defence and security policy in this way is deeply unserious and regrettable. Mr President, I would like to Defence policy is very serious. Every day, soldiers and other personnel contribute to providing security around the world. They do so by exposing themselves to great risks and working in harsh environments. These are operations such as Minusma in Mali, where the Armed Forces under the UN flag collect intelligence to contribute to the security, stability and protection of the population in the region. It is also about efforts such as the one in northern Iraq, where the Armed Forces train and advise, among other things, the Peshmerga forces in the fight against Daish. These are two examples of efforts where we in Sweden make a difference. There are two examples where each individual participating in the operation makes a difference. It is our job to ensure that they have the best possible support on the ground, and it is our job to ensure that they have the best possible support when they come home. In an impressive way, every day around the clock, they contribute to the stability of the country in which they operate. They, along with everyone else who goes on international missions, deserve all the support they and their relatives need. I am therefore pleased that we share the view across the block border on how important it is to do more. On 1 July, a veteran centre is established – a competence centre that will operate, develop and implement the agency's veteran and family grazing. This is another important step for better care of our veterans. That you in the Alliance chose to set up a formal ceremony on veteran's day, I pay tribute to you. It was an important decision that we Social Democrats are proudly following up on. We will continue to need to develop veteran policy to provide the best support to those who have made a contribution for Sweden. Those who stand up for society will also be given back the support of society. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-112	Mr President, I would like to I would like to pay attention to two points in Alexandra Völker's speech. One is the rope exercise in Halmstad. I have been there for a visit and was very impressed by those who participated and also by the joy these people expressed at being part of the Swedish Armed Forces and now being trained and tested again. It is important to highlight this as a good experience. Secondly, in her speech, Alexandra Völker pointed to a passage in the Swedish Democrats' motion. In my line with the Swedish Democrats, they argued that this would be both modern and bring the population together. I wish Alexandra Völker good luck in the change of line she will have with Mikael Jansson on this. Mr President, I would like to However, I have three questions for Alexandra Völker. The Social Democrats have repeatedly pointed their finger at the Alliance and said that they suspended military service with three votes overweight. This government has not even endeavoured to come to Parliament when conscription is reactivated. Is that showing respect to the House? My second question is that there is a debate going on in society and that I see and hear some Social Democrats who are out explaining and defending what is now being done with regard to the reactivated duty. Would Alexandra Völker like to describe what is now being done as universal and equivalent military service? I have a third question which I would like to ask the Social Democrats. In connection with the 2015 Sälen Conference, the Minister for Foreign Affairs expressed the view that there should be a modern military service, as she called it. The conscripts could also be used to extinguish forest fires, participate in national disasters or help the Migration Agency. What happened to this proposal by the Minister for Foreign Affairs?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-117	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Wallmark for the questions. The decision taken during the time of the alliance government to suspend military service also meant that it could be reactivated by only one club team at a government meeting. It is also a concept which, among others, Allan Widman has used several times in this very House in the past when he has criticised the fact that it took so long. This news is also something that has now been used. The investigation into the supply of personnel was well established in the defence group that, among others, Hans Wallmark himself forms part of. I think we all agree that we do not have time for too long processes when it comes to a stronger defence and more robust staff supply. That is why I think it is reasonable, given that it was the previous alliance government that opened up this opportunity, that the Social Democrats and the Green Party have chosen to seize this opportunity. When it comes to duty, it is voluntary activity that is at the heart of it, and military service is a good complement to ensuring that a system is maintained over time. It is a military service aimed at both men and women. The question of civil duty, to which I assume Mr Wallmark refers, was raised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his speech in Sälen. She has also made it clear that it was a personal reflection that she did. We Social Democrats certainly think it may be interesting. But, as I believe the Moderates are well aware, there is nothing at the moment.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-121	Mr President, I would like to I thank Alexandra Völker, who answers the questions seriously and honestly, for this. It's worth all the credit. I think that deserves respect in this House. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that when the Social Democrats have so bombastically pointed their finger at the Alliance, as they have been doing for years, saying that they are changing something by three votes overweight and then not coming to the House themselves today – neither the Minister for Defence nor any other representative of the Government is participating in this debate – one can think about the respect they show for this kind of decision. There will be such a contrast between the bombastic noise with the pointing finger and what they are now doing. Basically, I have nothing against the government having reactivated military service in the way it has done. But it is the contrast that I am still opposed to, i.e. that one has not wanted to hear the Riksdag. I share what Alexandra Völker says about the fact that it is not a general and equivalent military duty, but rather a mixed system that ultimately has voluntary activity as a basis. I mean to say it, not only in this House, but also when you are out agitating. I am not specifically addressing Alexandra Völker, but rather other social democratic rhetorics that are taking part in the debate. Then I can raise the third and final question that I asked. With all due respect, but I do not know whether a foreign minister who is taking part in a major defence and security conference and holding a line speech should engage in personal reflections. However, Mr President, I fully share the conclusion of the Socialist Member that nothing of what the Foreign Minister presented in Sälen is included in what the government has now presented.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-126	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I think that this government has been very clear about the need for cross-block agreements. A great deal of emphasis has been placed on and a great deal of time on actually bringing together a cross-block agreement on the direction of defence. That is also why this defence group is seen very regularly to discuss how we are constantly in relation to the agreement that has been made. It has been clear that there is a great deal of support in the Riksdag to restore duty, unlike when it was abolished. It is also a tool that the former alliance government itself has acquired. But now the alliance parties are criticising the current government for using this tool. For me, it's going to be something strange. I think it was important to take this decision quickly and to ensure that the duty can be put in place quickly. Although this is a complement to volunteering, we see that it is a complement that there is a great need for in the Swedish Armed Forces today.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-129	Mr President, I would like to Völker discusses whether SD's policy is consistent and clear or can be difficult to grasp. I can reply that the defence policy of the Swedish Democrats has been completely consistent throughout our time here in Parliament. We are the ones who want an invasion defence, we are the ones who wanted military training, and we are the ones who want to increase the defence budget. Everything goes in the direction we have indicated. It is the other parties, including the Social Democrats, that have changed course. We can look at the heritage of the Social Democrats on the issue of defence. It is the Social Democrats who have been responsible for the major staff closures. They cut down the defence grant so that we completely lost military capability for some time – the strategic timeout. My question to Mrs Völker is: will the Social Democrats make a turnaround now? Are you prepared to increase the defence budget significantly? Let us hope so, because we cannot build an invasion defence on the appropriation we have today. Will the Social Democrats make a turnaround and raise the defence budget?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-132	Mr President, I would like to Unlike the Swedish Democrats, the Social Democrats are a party that takes politics in general and defence and security policy in particular very seriously. All the proposals we put forward are serious, concrete, fully funded and at all stages thought through. I can assure Mr Jansson that there is something we intend to continue with. On the other hand, I am very curious whether Mr Jansson can explain the two lines that go completely against each other in the Swedish Democrats' budget motion and this report. I do not think that the personnel supply of the Armed Forces is an unimportant issue. I find something strange to ignore that question completely. Furthermore, I wonder if Mikael Jansson stands by that the reason why you do not think it should be a pattern for women is that there is no support for it in public opinion. Is that the line of the Swedish Democrats?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-135	Mr President, I would like to It is easy to see that there are many women in the defense who do a very good job. We also think that this is very positive. We are in no way opposed to it. You in the Social Democrats say you are serious. But you were in charge of the unit closures and cut down the defense budget so that the military defense lost all its capability during a strategic timeout. You say this is serious. I think it's very unserious. One should also know that we Swedish democrats want to take more to military training than the government wants, almost twice as many. Should it be considered that a miswriting in a reservation text would show that we are unclear? Over the years, we have raised motions which have indicated that we also have a clear line on military training. Of course, this error can be erased until the reservation comes in next time, so it does not affect our clarity in any way. But I'm curious about how the government will form the military education now that it's coming to the fore. Will it be the case that the government sends an instruction to the Swedish Armed Forces and the Recruiting Authority about taking out as many boys as women for military training? Will there be 2 000 boys and 2 000 girls undergoing military training?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-140	Mr President, I would like to Error in the reservation, says Mr Jansson. Yes, even in the budget, if so, I say. Nevertheless, I take it that the Swedish Democrats maintain that it is considered that the appointment should be compulsory only for men. The policy of the Swedish democrats is thus a step backwards. In fact, both men and women are now required to be appointed. What the Swedish democrats' policy means in the field of human resources is therefore to actively take the decision to abolish the obligation to appoint women. That is the line of the Swedish democrats in terms of staffing. The fact that it is also based on the fact that there is not enough popular support is quite fun, given that representatives of the Swedish Democrats, including Mikael Jansson himself, wrote an article last year where they boasted about how much support they have among the Swedish people. This article pointed out, among other things, that nine out of ten Swedes believe that military service should be gender neutral if it is reintroduced and that this figure is even higher among persons under 30. Although the Swedish Democrats themselves have said that there is great popular support for this, Mikael Jansson himself now uses the same facts against his own proposal. This shows once again that the Swedish democrats' defence policy is not linked but is based on what the Swedish democrats feel about the day.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-143	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing questions about the Swedish Armed Forces' personnel. It is a subject in which there have periodically been major differences of opinion between parties. Even today, I believe that the parties in Parliament have different starting values in terms of, for example, staff supply. Nevertheless, as the debate has shown, the vast majority of parties have come to support the Swedish Armed Forces' staff supply proposal presented last autumn by Annika Nordgren Christensen. The fact that we are thus moving towards a relative consensus on how to deal with staff issues is positive. This indicates that the investigation was a well-balanced compromise. Then I note that some of the bourgeois parties have made some criticisms in terms of how the investigation has been handled, but not in substance. I do not agree with that criticism of form. Alexandra Völker explained exemplaryly why it is properly handled. However, I would also like to add that it was very clear in the investigation directives themselves that no legislative changes would be proposed, because it would be possible to reactivate the duty with only one government decision. Then it should not come as a shock to the bourgeois parties to do so too. But, as I said, there is political agreement on the direction. It also signals stability and long-termness in Swedish politics, which is a not insignificant political signal towards our world. In 2010, military service was abolished by the then alliance government. I note a certain amount of self-criticism in the previous speeches, and I find that to be attractive. Change or die! Fredrik Reinfeldt said. It is probably a saying that many parties can reflect on. The Green Party was then in favour of the move towards greater voluntaryism, but also criticised the fact that the decision was taken on the basis of insufficient evidence. In retrospect, it is clear that this criticism was justified. Year after year, the Swedish Armed Forces have found it difficult to recruit enough people, which has led to a shortage of personnel gradually being built up in the Swedish Armed Forces. My entry and that of the Green Party is still that voluntaryism is desirable over duty. But all responsible parties must be able to answer how to solve the Armed Forces' personnel supply problems, not least given the deteriorating world situation. The investigation A robust personnel supply of military defence now proposes a model in which voluntary activity will continue to be the focus. The will, interest and motivation of the individual will weigh heavily in the recruitment process. The Swedish Armed Forces will more actively seek out interested young people, and the incentives to do military service will increase. Only if these measures are not sufficient to find sufficient numbers of suitable individuals who wish to do military service voluntarily shall persons with a lower interest be called in. As I see it, this is a balanced compromise that deals with the Armed Forces' staff supply problems with as little binding instruments as possible, which I think is why this investigation has gathered such broad support here in Parliament. I would like to stress my hope that the new system of gender-neutral military service will lead to a more equal defence force with more women participating. We have seen this effect clearly in Norway, for example, when they moved to a gender-neutral duty system where women and men are called in on equal terms. I would also like to agree with what Mr Wallmark said earlier in his criticism of Mikael Jansson: It is a bit strange when the Swedish Democrats want to go back to only calling in men – especially on their own reasoning, where they stress the importance of popular attachment and that duty can create a community in society. I do not really agree that the duty should have those roles, but if you think so, it becomes very strange that you want to exclude all women from this community. Why should they not also be integrated into the community? The government took the decision earlier in our decision to revive military law, which has been dormant since 2010. Now I look forward to working with the government to get as much as possible of the improved incentive structures that the investigation proposes. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the proposal in the report.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-155	Mr President, I would like to Initially, we can reflect a little on what we are talking about today. The Swedish Armed Forces' personnel supply – how does that sound in the public ears? Is that a way to describe an equal relationship? The opposite might be closer. The way in which we describe these issues shows that we are based on the needs of a state authority to meet its requirements. We are rather poor at looking at the needs of the people and at how we can make ourselves a more attractive employer. In its eagerness to impose duty, the government seems to have forgotten to make the defense an employer that is attractive on the market. As we have heard before in this House, it has been said from the representatives of the government that it was important that it went quickly. But I believe that in this context it must be known that the majority of those who work in the Armed Forces will continue to be employed, regardless of how many people we will have trained in duties, and then we must also look after that form. I also believe, Mr President, that it is time to dismiss the myth that the salary situation within the Armed Forces has no bearing on how long you remain. There are many examples that point to that. That those who apply to the Swedish Armed Forces at first may not look at the salary situation is one thing, but the total offer will eventually become very real when you see that you can't afford to live as your peers can do. I do not think that, in general, soldiers' salaries are supposed to be wage leaders, and soldiers' salaries are not very high internationally. But the difference between Sweden and other comparable countries is that the offer from the armed forces in other countries is better and includes benefits that make it more possible, both in the role of the armed forces and when leaving the armed forces, to move forward with good conditions. There's still a lot of work to be done. I also note that the people the Armed Forces want to employ are those who will not end up in the Public Employment Service. The unemployment rate among those who have qualified for employment within the Swedish Armed Forces is close to zero. So we have a group of people with very high skills but very low pay. This is, of course, an equation that ultimately turns out not to work. Today's News has drawn attention to this issue. It was exemplified with a person who previously worked as a shop controller with a salary of 28 000 SEK per month. When he chose to be employed by the Swedish Armed Forces, he went down to a salary of SEK 16,215. This corresponds to a 38% reduction in wages, which is, of course, quite a big one. I also note that the de facto decision taken by the government has contributed to a further reduction in wages. Anyone who was previously employed as a soldier, after initial training, can now continue under conscript conditions. This means that instead of a salary of about 18 000 people receive a compensation of 4 480 SEK. If we were to choose between these two salaries, I think we know where we were going to land. Another example mentioned by Dagens Nyheter is a soldier who has been authorized to drive tank trailers. According to an offer from a racer on the civilian market, he would double his salary if he left the Swedish Armed Forces and instead went to a private haulage company. If you want to start a family and get a place to live, you often get a "no" from the bank. Of course, you don't get to say no to starting a family – there are probably armed forces employees very attractive – but the bank says no after discovering that this person is only employed at times. Therefore, the bank cannot offer the loans that might make it possible to obtain a home. This creates a difficult situation for armed forces workers. One lieutenant colonel put the problem this way: When the soldier wants to get a life, it doesn't work. Of course we shouldn't have it like that. We Moderates have said that we want to review the entire system of allowances, incentives and benefits for our soldiers and sailors. There are many parts to look at. We have proposed, among other things, training cheques or CSN loans that can be written off as well as training premiums or other premiums after certain periods of service. We have also said that access to further training in employment and, not least, access to housing may be important, which is a difficult issue in many large towns. This is not something that we Moderates individually have raised, but it is something that the committee has also presented to the government. The same has also been stated by the government's investigators: more measures are needed to increase the attractiveness of the Swedish Armed Forces. But from the Department of Defense, we don't see any suggestions. As someone said earlier, it was perhaps more important to do it quickly than to do it right. However, we would like to see both. The proposals put forward must become a reality, and this must happen quite quickly. The human resources inquiry that we received before Christmas found that the availability of professional officers will undercut the need by 2020. Major retirements and recruitment problems mean that we have a deficit of officers, and it is noted that we need to increase our recruitment of officers by 47% from this year to achieve the current targets. This, of course, shows an alarming situation. It doesn't look much better when it comes to reserve officers' training. Almost ten years ago it was decided to introduce a new reserve officer training. With some reservation, Mr President, I believe that the first hill has not yet been examined from this education. In this context, it can also be noted that the reserve officers, who are a tick between defence and civil society, are having a very difficult time operating, which is not a good thing. It is difficult for the defence to hire reserve officers because of difficult conditions, such as the cost of allowances. In addition, when you want to hire reserve officers for foreign service, you have different conditions for those who are regular staff and for those who are reserve officers. It's not really good. We're gonna have first-class officers, not A-class officers and B-class officers. Mr President, I would like to There are various reasons to be worried. We in the Moderates have highlighted that recruitment is an important part. When introducing a more general pattern, it should be a good time to also look at moving the pattern out into the country. It shouldn't be a problem now that you can call those who are going to sign up for patterning. But we see that, on the contrary, the Total Defence Recruitment Authority closes offices and closes certain offices to move them. It is clear that this raises some concern. Mr President, I would like to There is more to be said about the issue, but I will end by calling for the approval of reservation 6. In order to follow up the debate that has been in this House, I think that in certain situations we can sense a rather high tone from the Social Democrats, who want to take credit for certain things. We all know that it is we in the Alliance who have pushed the issue of veteran politics ahead of us, not least exemplified by veteran day, which is perhaps some time in the future to become a public flag day. We know that this was an issue in which the Social Democrats turned around during the gallows. Finally, Mr President, I have recent experience of the delegation from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence, which has been in Iraq to study the operation of our troops in this area. We note that the Swedish soldiers there are training Kurdish female combatants. In this context, and in the light of the debate, we can see that the Iraqi Kurds seem to have made further progress in having a clear role for women in their defence.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-179	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to make a little different angle on the issue of the schools and the training of officers. At least it's within the scope of the subject. The profession of officers and some war unit commanders requires a fairly long training, and that requires many exercises. We who have been war unit managers and battalion commanders and who have also been hailed with a veteran day – thank you for it – know that this is a difficult profession. It requires a long education. Mr President, I would like to Let's look at what the new academy of the Armed Forces officers looks like. If we look a little deeper at it we notice that if you do military service, go to a university and study economics for three years and then go out and do 18 months you can become war unit manager. How is that reasonable at all? We'll react to that. Imagine a five-year medical school and someone says: I've been studying economics for three years, so I can cut the education and only do two years! We don't want to go to that doctor. Now it won't happen again, but I don't want to be in a war unit where the boss has attended 18 months of training to run the unit. In that unit, I don't want to be. I think it is serious that the profession should be devalued in this way. When it comes to troop training and staffing, you can read that it is over-valued and over-trained. Such words are found in texts, and you hear them at meetings. What is an overeducated electrician, doctor, or officer? What's he over-trained on? We who have done a lot of KFÖ, war unit exercises, know that these are really important questions. We know it's really important to do exercises like this. Troop training is for the conscripts — when you step in and receive 30 - 40 men. Then you have troop training. Then you go into trooping. That's when you have combat units, platoons and company. That's for bandages. There is constant staff work in this work – planning, finance and so on. This together are the bones on which you stand. Now you start to enter the academic world, which in many parts is good. You go to Karlberg for a year and a half. Then you go to the squad team school for a year. You're up to two and a half years. Then you have your own job for six months. It'll be three years. Then you're an ensign and you're going out on a squad. After two years, you're a lieutenant, and after two more years, you're a captain. But where did the company commander training go? Where did the platoon chief school go? Here we must pay attention and follow it up. As you know, today FHS, the Swedish National Defence College, is under the Ministry of Education and the Higher Education Ordinance. But the Swedish Armed Forces are under the Ministry of Defence. Everyone has the right to apply to college today, right? But shouldn't the Swedish Armed Forces be able to have a veto right or at least be able to cooperate? Who coordinates this? The Swedish Armed Forces must be given a say in which to train officers. This is completely unreasonable, and I think we need to look at it. It works quite well today, but it should also be ensured in text. I think that the character of the officer's profession must be governing. What needs do we have, and what are we to be able to do? It should be exactly the same as for the electrician, plumber or doctor. There must be a training plan, and it must be completed. If we start to twilight on this to find a refill of officers, I think we're going wrong. Mr President, I would like to There are many things that have been said here today that I share my views on. But we have to up the volumes in the long term, just as some have been in here. Four thousand people are spent on securing the armed forces and the organisation we have today. But if we are to be able to throw off, as they say, to the home guard, the volunteer fire brigade and so on, the volumes must rise. That's why we have to call in more. It'll also make it easier for us to recruit officers. It'll take as long as it takes. I'm not going to tell you how we got into this situation, but it has to take time. We need to review education and training systems, and we need to be more involved. It's about all of us. We need to look at education and see what it leads to. Are we satisfied with it, or can we question and discuss this with the leadership of the Armed Forces? I think we could all get better at this. Up the volumes, they say. There must be controlled growth. This represents a balance between the tasks we give that are of an operational nature and those of an educational nature. These two things are very important. The 4 000 men we are talking about now balance in some form by 2020, perhaps. But before that, we need to think about how we can increase volumes. Otherwise, the operational capability will go down.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-192	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Roger Richtoff, for the post! There are many issues where we share our view of the problem of both recruitment and staffing in order to be able to meet the levels of education that lie in the near future but also in the future. It is important that we continue to reflect on and debate how best to arrive at good solutions and good results. I have read the Swedish Democrats' motion for this report. It is a concerted and extensive exercise. I will quote a few words: "To deliver soldiers," it says. Furthermore, it says: a training of officers should be provided to sift the chaff from the wheat, which means in plain language that those who lack the required leadership and war ability skills will never graduate as officers. ..................................................... I note and take note that the Swedish Democrats are proposing a changed education system and also a different form of recruitment. It would be interesting to know more about how Roger Richtoff and the Swedish Democrats think about this with delivering soldiers and sifting the chaff from the wheat. Roger Richtoff's colleague Mikael Jansson has described in earlier parts of the debate a three-day education for boys. I note a certain lack of clarity here. It is stated in the exercise that the education should also include girls in connection with the appointment. It would be interesting to learn more about the practicalities of this.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-196	Mr President, I would like to Warriors we call them all, and that is a common expression that we used a lot in the past. There's nothing wrong with this. We're training soldiers and conscripts for war. Not peace, but war. With guns in hand, they're gonna shoot other people to death. That is what it aims to defend its country. That is exactly what it aims to do. Nothing else. When it comes to sifting the chaff from the wheat, I probably wouldn't write that, but it's obvious that anyone who isn't good enough to be an officer, war unit manager, should not be. That's why you have to remove them, and you already do that now. During the journey to become a war unit commander, some people are removed who will never be placed in war. That was the way it used to be, and that's the way it is now. That is what is meant by sifting the chaff from the wheat. When it came to three-day exercises, they used to have a week. We've been experimenting with this, and it's come back and gone again. This training was removed. You patterned, and then you went home. So did I, but before that they did a number of days, and it was pretty good to get an orientation about what it was all about. It turned out to be pretty good, and that's why we still have it in our reservation. I think that was the answer to the questions.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-200	Mr President, I would like to You mention getting in touch with uniforms and light weapons and getting a basic education in survival. That's explained in the exercise. It is three days that can be important for the individual, but it is also a question of asking: Should everyone in a grouping of 100 000 people with a budget of 100 000 SEK that the Swedish democrats propose to come into contact with weapons even against the individual's will? The second question, linked to the purpose of the officer training, is what objective the Swedish Democrats have in practice when it comes to gender equality goals and female officers in the Swedish Armed Forces. I can't find it anywhere in this extensive material. When it is written about soldiers, it is appropriate to ask the question: What is the concrete goal of the Swedish Democrats for the proportion of women as officers, training instructors and responsible leaders of our war organisation as a whole? We are struggling to get more people to join the Swedish Armed Forces and go in voluntarily but also to train and take duty as officers. It should be extremely important for the Swedish Democrats, I think, to highlight a clear objective of gender equality goals and how best to achieve them. There is another line I wonder about, and that is that officers should usurp a broad understanding while under-commanders should have a deeper understanding. It may be interesting to hear how these assignments are described in relation to mandates and responsibilities.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-204	Mr President, I would like to We can start by talking about conscientious objectors, as the honourable Member mentioned. We believe that conscientious objectors should not be put in prison. You used to. When I stepped in, there was prison for the one who refused. Then the volunteers came, or those who refused to attend the Rescue Department's training courses, and work for example with medical care or in the emergency services. It was a duty to do this, and we want to restore that duty. This means that anyone who refuses to take a weapon will also get away with our system, but he will do a duty in society – there he cannot refuse. So it is with the intentions of the present government, as I understand it. When it comes to female officers, I have served both in Sweden and abroad with female officers from many different countries, and I have absolutely nothing bad to say about it but only good things. On the other hand, there were difficulties in some units. Let's take the engineering squads as an example. We who built beam bridge 2 and the platoons that moved in had the least muscle factor 8 or 9, otherwise they were out immediately. There were very few women who could be part of those units. It is therefore recruited differently, but it is not therefore said that they are worth less. They are excellent at lots of positions. I think the new head of the Livgarde is a woman. I think that is excellent. I believe that the leadership skills of women are at least as good as those of men. Unfortunately, I do not have time to go into this with broader and deeper knowledge at the different levels, but we can take it at another time.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-207	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1, gambling as a cultural form, and reservation 2, gambling institutes. Gambling license or monopoly? Yes, Mr President, that is not the issue today, but the Parliament has decided to bring forward a reform with a gaming license that will later come to our table. The report is now ready, and the report is in the process of being consulted with the deadline for replying on 4 August this year. We look forward to once the government bill arrives. The focus of the Swedish Democrats during the investigation has been to evaluate all proposals based on public health. More than that, I will not touch on the gaming license today. Mr President, I would like to I now focus on exploring the possibility of setting up a gambling institute, specifically for the kind of games that are a little carelessly placed under the concept of computer games, despite the fact that what is referred to involves gambling on many different platforms. A gambling institute could bring the needs of the gaming industry to the attention of those in power and other players and be a bridge for the collaboration between public Sweden and the gaming industry. With this, I think that a gambling institute will work to help the industry in cooperation with other cultural industries and areas – collaborations that can contribute to art and culture creators gaining more and new sources of income. In this way, we can build a strong gaming creation business that shows that Sweden has a head start in this arena, and it would be desirable if we maintain our leading position in the gaming world. In addition to investigating the possibility of setting up a gambling institute, we want to work towards the resumption of Nordic gaming cooperation and the development of Nordic cooperation in the field of gambling. The Nordic Computer Games Programme is described by the Nordic Council as one of the Council's most successful collaborations in the field of culture and was responsible for a large part of Swedish cultural policy's gaming policy. The Parliament will shortly have a Nordic debate, and there we will highlight this, as we believe there is no active policy for computer games. By resuming the Nordic computer game programme with Nordic content, we promote a modern cultural and creative industry while also being able to convey our history in a new and exciting way. I hope for a positive response to this when the Nordic debate is held here in Parliament. There are folk high schools with profile courses focusing on games and networks. This is one of many examples of good practice in the field of public education. The main goal of public education is just as the name reveals the formation of the people. It is important not to confuse education and training. Folkbildning has historically been divided into four branches: public libraries, folk high schools, lecture associations and study associations. Formation can thus be defined as the development of the individual and the cultivation of mental abilities, while an education can include education. However, education refers primarily to the process in which an individual systematically absorbs knowledge and skills. By forming the people, they increase the opportunities for self-realization of the population and individuals, but also their ability to participate actively in the democratic processes of society. Peoples' education is therefore considered to play an important role in the development of democracy. As folk education is an important way to social community and the desire to want to learn plays an important role in our society. Mr President, I would like to We are opposed to the government earmarking these funds. The earringing of funds means that people who have not received a residence permit have access to adult education. We Swedish democrats believe that this form of establishment should not be aimed at people who have not yet been granted a residence permit. We believe that it does not give a fair picture, because the asylum seeker does not know what the decision to stay in the country or not to land in. Seeking asylum is not the same as getting asylum. In our opinion, it risks sending out vague signals, watering down citizenship and using resources that may be needed elsewhere. It is important that public funds are used responsibly, and responsible use does not include earmarking educational resources to people who have not yet received asylum. This is particularly important for the sake and respect for the purpose and function of folk education in our society, that is, the formation of the people.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-221	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating motions dealing with issues of gaming and education. So there are three different areas that differ quite a lot. Yeah, I'm counting right. There are three areas. I will return to the education of the people. As far as gambling is concerned, that word has at least two different meanings in this report. If we use the English language instead, we are talking about two different areas: gambling and gaming. Gambling is about games about money, such as lotteries, tips or betting. In this area, the Gaming Licensing Commission has just submitted its report A reregulated gambling market to the government, just over a month ago. The investigation proposes a new regulation of the gaming market in Sweden. This is something that is necessary and that we have all been waiting for. The investigation, which I would like to say is very good, is now being referred, and after that we will have to wait for the government proposal in this area. It is a bill that I know is now being worked on for as fast a delivery as possible. It feels important and urgent. Then there is gaming, that is, skill games on a computer or via game consoles. E-sport is already today a great sport that attracts many players as well as spectators. Professionalism is often high, and there are those who feed on e-sports as well as there are amateurs at all levels – just like in any other sport. However, e-sport has not yet been properly recognised by society. This may, for example, involve the possibility of being able to invest in e-sports during their upper secondary school studies, in the same way as can be done at ice hockey or football gymnasies, for example. Yet today around 80 percent of Sweden's population play digital games in some form. It is a broad form of culture that attracts many. My parliamentary colleague in the Center Party, Rickard Nordin, lifts up the gig in a very initiated and important exercise. In addition to the e-sport, he highlights games as a cultural form. We can also add board games of various kinds to digital gaming. We can see, just as Rickard Nordin does in his exercise, that gambling is one of the most popular leisure activities in Sweden. Statistics from Statistics Sweden, the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis and the SOM Institute also refer to gambling as a cultural exercise. But in the sense of the state, including in the case of grants, gambling is not formally regarded as a form of culture. But both digital and analogue gaming as well as the development of these games fit well into the cultural policy objectives, which means that they should also be formally seen and appreciated as the broad cultural form they really are. Mr President, I would like to Civil society, with associations, sport and education, plays an incredibly large and important role in the development of society and democracy. It is in the local association, in networks, in local development groups and not least in study circles that a broad community commitment can emerge. The Center Party wants the individual to develop through association with civil society and in meetings with other local people. Folkbildning, with the study associations and folk high schools throughout the country, both in the countryside and in the city, becomes an important part of civil society. The state is investing a lot of resources in peoples' education. That, in my opinion, is very well spent money. Folkbildning is an important player in promoting and creating engagement in our society. Contacts with others and education are important in order to be able to orient themselves, shape independent perceptions and participate actively in society. This applies regardless of whether you are new to Sweden or whether you have lived in Sweden all your life. The study associations are making an important contribution here. It is about human education, not just education, and it is about everyone who is staying in Sweden for a long time. Mr President, I would like to The study associations also play a very important role in enabling people with disabilities to create a platform to influence and participate on equal terms in our society. This can be done through cultural events and commitment to culture. It can also be done by passing on knowledge in different study circles and in folk high schools. We can take the Adult School project Mitt Val as an example. It started before the 2014 election year and aimed at people with intellectual disabilities. The My Val project developed knowledge, documentation and materials for study circles that supported and trained people with intellectual disabilities in taking part in and using their civil right to vote. My choice helped to give some of our citizens in Sweden the opportunity to use their right to influence the society we live in. Now the Association of Students continues with My Choice Study Circles around our country, so that more and more people can use this right and understand what it means. The study circle may be the beginning of something much larger, a beginning of something that might not have been anticipated but which gives the education another dimension. However, this could not happen unless peoples have their free role to find their own ways. It is freedom and transparency that empowers peoples to meet each individual by means of education, where they stand to take on lifelong learning from there. The power of public education also lies in its existence throughout the country. Folk high schools, study circles of study associations and cultural arrangements exist not only in the cities but at least as much, perhaps even more, in the countryside and in smaller towns. Mr President, I would like to However, there is a risk that projects, such as My Val started as well, will stop being just a project and that the knowledge and methodology that has been created will not be shared more than the m included in the project. It is therefore also important to provide general support for peoples' education.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-237	Mr President, I would like to For time to come, I do not have any specific pleas in relation to this report. But, of course, I support the reservations of the Liberals. Mr President, I would like to We will certainly debate and discuss gambling policy many times and in many different ways in this House in the future. The same applies to e-sport. For that reason, I am choosing today to focus on the part of the report that concerns peoples' education. It's not enough to know where to find information. One must also have knowledge that enables one to orient oneself in a world filled with claims. You simply need education. We Liberals believe that respect for education needs a renaissance. A reform of that concept in school is a cornerstone of this work, an active cultural policy is another cornerstone. Knowledge is and gives freedom, both for the individual who does not have to rely on authority and for society at large that can take up the fight against populism and authoritarian teachings. Critical thinking and understanding of events can hardly be underestimated in the time in which we now live. Mr President, I would like to School is one of society's most important cultural institutions, and it should not only convey knowledge but also the basics of education. A creative environment where students themselves can create is an important prerequisite for learning. Through school, all children and young people can also be reached by professional cultural practitioners, thereby seeing and hearing, for example, high-quality theatre, film and music. During school, all children and young people should also have some fictional books with them that can follow them through life, as well as enjoy the stage experiences annually in the form of concerts and theatre performances, for example. In short, you need to start your training trip. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a very strong culture tradition that must be kept alive even today. Formation and knowledge strengthen the individual's empowerment and ability to orient themselves and make independent decisions. That is why we liberals defend the idea of education, promote personal education trips and support the free formation of people. As the Swedish peoples' movements grew up, they all strongly stressed the need for education. It was through literature and studies that the individual would acquire the tools needed to take greater responsibility for himself and for society at large. Since then, peoples' education has played an important role in raising the level of knowledge in society in general. Through, for example, study circles and folk high schools, people's education not only allows people to learn but also to be co-creators rather than passive consumers of culture and other efforts. By being free and voluntary, peoples' education reaches and raises those people who may not come to their own in the formal education system. This part of such an important education assignment applies not least to people who are particularly vulnerable, such as those who have been in special education, people with mental illness or other functional variations that put a particularly high hope in the educational associations. Mr President, I would like to Finally, the study associations are an important hub in the infrastructure of culture. The national network of study associations creates discussions, debates, lectures, study circles and exhibitions throughout the country. The local presence makes the study associations unique in their ability to arrange cultural activities even in very small towns. That is why, Mr President, free support for peoples' education is the basis for free learning and for educational trips to begin at a young age.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-249	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-250	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Members! I have a very simple question for the Prime Minister: Why is it important that it should pay less to work?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-251	Mr President, I would like to I don't know who thinks that. That was a very strange question. Of course it'll pay off to work. We have far too many unemployed people in Sweden. They're going to work, and that's why I've set a very tough unemployment target. It actually pays to work in Sweden, which is very important.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-253	Mr President, I would like to If you are to cope with welfare and security, it must pay off to go to work in the mornings, because from there comes the money. When it paid better under a moderate government, we could increase the resources for welfare. But in a family where both adults have benefits and one starts working, we now see how the family's income can go down. We also see that over 1 million ordinary people who work, including police officers, midwives and teachers, receive higher taxes from Stefan Löfven. In the election campaign, the Prime Minister promised as party leader that ordinary people who work would not receive higher taxes. I therefore wonder why he is betraying that promise.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-256	Mr President, I would like to I say it again: It pays to work in Sweden, and it should pay off. That's good. It is a pity that unemployment increased with moderate policy. That's not good. Long-term unemployment increased. The Moderates have a single answer to all the concerns, namely job tax deductions. It has been tried once, twice, three times, four times and five times. It was not good for Sweden, but unemployment increased. Let's try another policy. We have a different policy focus that involves investing together. When we invest, there'll be more jobs. That is why we now have 20 000 more at school. Since we took office, a total of 200 000 more people have a job to go to, which I think is good. But that's not enough. Unemployment is too high. The only question is what the solution is. Are we going back to the Moderates' old policy of tax cuts, or are we going to invest together? I believe in that later. In addition, it is strange that the Moderates can imagine that new arrivals will have both a grant and a salary. It's very strange.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-262	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has big and serious problems. People in our country are dying because of a shortage of health care personnel and places. We see sexual crime and insecurity increasing at a frightening rate. We see how segregation is deeper than ever. Despite the booming boom, we see galloping deficits in the local government sector and unemployment that has again begun to grow. Instead of reassessing his policies and doing everything he can to reverse developments, the Prime Minister spends much of his energy on lying and slandering the opposition. The Prime Minister began his career by promising the Swedish people a new election. He then withdrew that promise and never apologized for it. The Prime Minister has presented so gravely incorrect information about the history of my party that he has even received criticism from left-wing organizations such as Expo. But he never apologized for this. The Prime Minister has claimed that the Swedish Democrats have not voted on their own draft budgets in this House, even though anyone can go in and read the parliamentary records and see that this is not true. He never apologized for this. In the last party leader debate, the Prime Minister claimed that SD's promised investment in welfare is completely impossible because, according to the Prime Minister, we want to implement tax cuts of 50 billion. First of all, there is no automatic link between reducing taxes and getting more money for welfare. It depends on what taxes you lower, at what time you do it and how you do it. Of course, be careful. But the important thing here is that the Swedish Democrats have never proposed tax reductions of this magnitude. This, too, was a claim that was completely unfounded. In view of this, my question to the Prime Minister is: how can we teach our children that it is wrong to lie when the country's Prime Minister repeatedly lies publicly to the Swedish people and then refuses to apologize when he is caught?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-268	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has many challenges and many opportunities. It's a matter of taking advantage of this. The question here is about the Swedish Democrats' choice of politics. They are clearly the fifth bourgeois alternative and the party that believes in tax cuts. It is possible that the Swedish Democrats themselves have not counted on their proposals. It may be, and it's just as bad. I said you're proposing 50 billion, but I think I was wrong, because it's more than 50. Just count on the proposals. It is not possible to take 50 billion from tax revenues and believe that there is no difference in welfare. I have said it before, and I say it again: the Swedish Democrats are a case for the Lyx trap. You can't promise around and then cut your income. That's how people end up in debt traps. Your 50 billion will be added to the 70 billion of the other four bourgeois parties. If we don't add them up, the net will be just over 100 billion. This is what you are going to do. If you do not, you may withdraw your suggestions. But we assume that when the party's economic-political spokesperson writes an article in Today's industry, he has at least considered what this means. The consequences are such, Mattias Karlsson, when you lie down flat for the right and say that you are also a right-wing party. It is not possible to try to be the party of the public and of everyone and then to choose an economic policy that involves such large tax cuts. You have chosen and shown who you are: you are a real right-wing party. Then you'll have to stand for it.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-273	Mr President, I would like to Now the Prime Minister is lying again. I call on all television viewers and audiences to go in and read our latest draft budget. Then you will see that the Prime Minister is actually lying again here in Parliament's pulpit. We do not have as much tax cuts as the Prime Minister says. I know that the Prime Minister has difficulty reading the budget from before, but that he cannot even read debate articles, I think, is even worse. What the Prime Minister says is not in the debate article. This is a debate article in which Oscar Sjöstedt mentions a number of different proposals that we have opened up to negotiate. He does not say that this is something that we are going to do straight away and that we are going to put forward as sharp proposals. He says we can discuss some isolated cases of these. Most of the major tax cuts that we have are the removal of pensioner tax. We also want to make it cheaper for small companies to hire. Which of these tax cuts do you mean, Stefan Löfven, is in conflict with a better welfare? Please answer that question!
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-277	Mr President, I would like to You say that you want to reduce the pensioner's tax but voted against it. This doesn't make any sense. You did this in autumn 2014. We could have had a reduced tax on pensioners in spring 2015, but you voted down that proposal when you chose to vote with the other four bourgeois parties. Then there was no reduced tax for pensioners. This is a fact. Let's take one of your suggestions, if it's yours – you can tell us if the economic-political spokesperson may have his own firm in the Swedish Democrats. One of your tax proposals would mean that the person who earns $100,000 a month would receive a tax cut of 46 000 SEK a year. Are people who earn $100,000 a month really something that is a priority within the Swedish Democrats? Are they supposed to have big tax cuts? This is not my priority, but I want to ensure that we have tax revenue, because then we can invest in welfare. I intend to continue investing in welfare. It's my choice.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-281	Mr President, I would like to Let us talk about health care, about health care and the growing queues! It's about the lines to see doctors and the lines to surgery. It is about regional fragmentation and inequality in the country. It differs dramatically depending on where in the country you live. Care queues are growing. They grow at most in Social Democratically-governed county councils. And it is during Stefan Lövven's shift that this happens. When you're sick, there's nothing more important than getting well again. It is about that the care is close, that it is available and that you get the care you need when you need it. It is a basic security that every person should feel, whether you live in the interior of Norrland and will have children, if you are cancer-sick in Skåne or if you need time for hip replacement surgery in Värmland. We now see dramatic differences between county councils. The gap has grown since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister. 90 per cent receive care within the healthcare guarantee in alliance-led Halland and Jönköping. But only 60 percent get it in Social Democratically controlled Norrbotten and Region Jämtland Härjedalen. This inequality divides Sweden. These are totally unacceptable differences, not least for the individual affected. No matter where in the country you live, you should have available care. It should not differ depending on the colour of the county council. Just because you happen to be ill and live in Norrbotten you should not have drawn the ritlott when it comes to getting care on time. I would therefore like to ask Stefan Löfven: how is it that care queues have increased so strongly since the start of the Red-Green Government? How is it that Social Democratic county councils are much worse at short-term care queues than alliance-led ones? And why should those who live in Jämtland have to wait longer to get the care they need than those who live in Jönköping?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-285	Mr President, I would like to Care should work, and it should work equally for everyone, no matter who you are and no matter where you live. It is a basic bolt in the Swedish model, and so it should be. It is now the case that the distribution of county councils' resources is decided by the county councils and the regions respectively. That's what the division of labour looks like. I do not think Annie Lööf is very proud of the health care in Stockholm County Council, which has long been governed by the bourgeois together with the Swedish Democrats. There are major flaws there. We can hold a debate on this. The point is, what is national responsibility? What are we going to do at national level? Only last autumn, the Center Party was prepared to reduce resources for health care. I'm glad it's no longer valid. That's good. But the conditions for standing up for health care, as well as good welfare in general, do not increase if taxes are to be reduced by SEK 70 billion. They will deteriorate. Our government will add resources to shorten waiting times. They are too long in too many places. Unfortunately, they grew already in 2014– we could see that. The old queue billion had played its part. I'm sure it was introduced for the best purpose. But both the Medical Association and others said: It leads wrong. It does not lead to the fastest care for those who need it. There were completely different driving forces, so we needed to do something new. Now we will provide EUR 1 billion to ensure that the health guarantee can be met more quickly than that there will be a visit to a general practitioner within seven days. That time should be shortened. We look at how much we can shorten that time. Not least, it is about creating a patient contract that allows people who have more complex needs and who need more treatments and more studies to be able to see the whole chain of care interventions from start to finish. Let's make a contract. That's how we do a faster treatment. That's how we make a safer treatment.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-290	Mr President, I would like to Even in alliance-led Stockholm County you get care within the health guarantee to 90 percent, unlike in Social Democratically controlled Norrbotten, where you only get it to 60 percent. We should remember that it is Stefan Lövven's policy that has made the care queues now grow. The fact remains. Queues are growing. Sweden is divided by unequal access to care. And it is precisely in S-controlled county councils that the queues for specialist care are the longest. We – Stefan Löfven in particular – should also consider what the profit ban imposed by Ilmar Reepalu and the Social Democrats on private care is important for primary care. Today, half of all clinic visits are made to a private health centre. 18.6 million visits are made every year at private health centres. If we are forced to close these health centres because of the Social Democrats' policy on profit caps, in practice a profit ban, I wonder: Where are all those seeking care going? How does this shorten the cycle of care? How does that increase security? How does it improve access to welfare? Now answer the question of winning ceilings, Stefan Löfven!
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-293	Mr President, I would like to Again: We can compare county councils. Stockholm County Council has probably the best conditions throughout the country, depending on population development. And that's where you buy stockings for $5,000 the couple. Is it a success, Annie Lööf? That's where you also put down a maternity clinic. BB Sophia was shut down. It wasn't a success. Kalmar and Östergötland – there are two social democratic-led county councils – are among the better in terms of results, as well as in terms of cost. As far as this is concerned, we can stand and dribble. The question is again: what is national responsibility? What are we gonna do? Well, we're going to bring more resources, and we're going to do that now. We're bringing a lot more resources. As far as welfare gains are concerned, I will give exactly the same answer as I have given in the past, most recently on Sunday. We must ensure that our tax money intended for welfare, in this case health care, also benefits health care. I can't believe you're fighting for them not to.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-298	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister Löfven! In the last 24 hours we have seen play by Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin and Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. They say they want to cooperate or co-regulate with the Center Party and the Liberals after the 2018 elections. That would mean a completely different political orientation from that of today, when the government cooperates with us in the Left Party. Today, through our left-wing cooperation, we have carried out major reforms with more resources for prosperity. We have benefited single parents through a variety of reform decisions, and those with low pensions have had a better economic standard of living. We build more rental apartments with reasonable rents. We agree to do something about the profit hunt in welfare. The Center Party and the Liberals do not want to do any of this. They propose tax changes which, if implemented, would quickly increase the already large class gaps and inequalities in our country. Both parties are prepared to lower the lowest paid wages with state intervention, entirely across the Swedish model. They want to privatise more of Swedish welfare. This is a political choice for Sweden. Andersson and Lövin seem to prefer to share power with bourgeois parties. They seem to think it would be better in terms of content than today's left-wing cooperation. What does Prime Minister Löfven think?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-302	Mr President, I would like to First of all, the voters will say theirs in autumn 2018. My starting point is: when the voters have done so, we, who are party leaders and parties, have a responsibility to ensure that the result of the elections, whatever the voters think, is taken care of, because they do not think wrong. For the 2014 elections, I said: It may well be that we have a difficult election result in the sense that it will be difficult to get a majority. Nevertheless, this must be done. The country is to be ruled. Sweden will be taken forward. Then you have to choose a number of paths. Now we have a government constellation, and we have budget cooperation with the Left Party. This is exactly what Jonas Sjöstedt says. We have put forward several very good budgets. During this time we have also made 16 broad agreements – one on defence and one on energy. On very important issues for Sweden, we have reached broad agreements. Then society knows that the conditions are valid for a long time. This applies not least to energy. I met with representatives of Ovako Steel yesterday. They were very happy that we in Sweden finally have a long-term energy agreement. This provides the industry with long-term prospects. That's how we have to work. In the end, there are three options. The first is that we hold on to the blocks and stand in each other's ditch and fight with each other and get nothing done. The second is that you turn to the Swedish Democrats, as the Moderates have now done. They want to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. I don't want to. Such cooperation is out of the question. The third is cross-block cooperation. You can do that in many different ways. But we will be determined that whatever the voters say, their election results are the right thing to do. Then we shall relate to it, and we shall ensure that Sweden can be ruled. That's what I'm going to do.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-306	Mr President, I would like to Yes, that the voters choose and that the result of the elections governs is absolutely self-evident. But what you want is something else, and that is what the question was about. What does the Prime Minister want? What do the Social Democrats want to see in politics? I can be clear about what I want. I want to see cooperation without bourgeois parties. I think that would be the best thing for Sweden. But you seem to want to invite them into the political heat. It seems that's what you really want. I know you want to control. That's what we know. But which way do you want to steer? With us, there will be more equality and a welfare to be trusted. With the Center Party and the Liberals there will be a policy of reducing wages and increasing rents. Do you want to go to the right or to the left, Stefan Löfven?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-309	Mr President, I would like to It seems to be an end in itself for Jonas Sjöstedt and the Left Party not to cooperate across the block line. If it is an end in itself for V, then they must stand for it and take the consequences of it. For me, it's not an end in itself. One self-interest for me is to steer Sweden so that we move forward and develop Sweden with more equality, more employment, more solidarity, more order and control of the labour market and so on. I assume, then, that we must be able to sit down and discuss these issues, whatever the outcome of the elections. If you have decided from the beginning that there will be no cooperation across the block line, then you have that position. I don't have that position. I intend to stand in the middle of Swedish politics, and here we are also available for a difficult election result. Sweden will be governed, and Sweden will move forward – I take responsibility for that!
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-313	Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs more police. When I said at the beginning of spring that we need to increase the number of police officers by 5,000, it was not really my intention to start some kind of bidding in Sweden, but it was the result, and now all the different numbers are mentioned. But it is good that we agree that the number of police officers needs to increase in order to combat the crime that is becoming more serious and growing. Then the government says: Let us set up two new police colleges! We support it, but the problem for the government is that there are too few people who want to be cops. In the latest admissions, one in five places at the Police College is empty. The dropout of existing police officers has increased sharply in Sweden since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister, Anders Ygeman became Minister of the Interior and Dan Eliasson became Head of the National Police. The dropout has not been higher in modern times. If people in Sweden do not want to be police officers, it is not enough to talk about more police officers or to set up more police colleges. It is quite clear, then, that we need to improve the conditions of employment. One point I think is to say no to the government's idea of accrediting education. It will not increase interest in working as a police officer in external service. I also believe that we should show confidence in the police and allow the police to become senior executives instead of bringing other people in as senior executives in the police. Above all, however, it is about salaries, the Prime Minister. Police work is low-paid, given the training and responsibilities you have. We have a proposal from the Liberals, on which we will be voting in this House in a few weeks' time, to increase police salaries in Sweden by an average of SEK 4 000 per month. You can say some other amount, but the problem is that wages are too low. The government says no to go in and raise police salaries, and then there will be no more police officers. Why do you say no to raising police salaries, Prime Minister?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-319	Mr President, I would like to We agree, which is a good basic condition, that we must have more police officers and that we must also bring the police closer to the citizens. It is a work in progress, and we now have more police officers in several of the vulnerable areas, and it must continue. We will also make sure to increase the penalties for, among other things, weapons crimes so that it becomes even tougher for the criminals. Björklund says cops drop out. But it's not just that simple to drop out. Some also retire, and it is a right we have in the Swedish labour market to retire after a full career. It's clear we're going to inject resources, and so are we. They can go to wages, and they can go to improved conditions. It's important. But I'm just saying: Gud save us for a wage formation that Jan Björklund controls from the Swedish parliament! It would be a disaster for the Swedish labour market, because salaries that can be raised in the Swedish parliament can also be lowered in the Swedish parliament. We're not supposed to have that kind of wage formation. We're going to shoot at resources, and the parties are going to take care of it. Perhaps Björklund can also show the parties in this case, i.e. the Polisförbundet, who say that they want a police college with a longer education. They want that, and I think Jan Björklund should listen to it. They see it coming, and they will also be able to negotiate wages. When we shoot at resources, the parties take care of the wage formation. It is the best thing for the police, and it is the best thing for the entire Swedish labour market.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-323	Mr President, I would like to We have, of course, agreed to spend money on teaching staff, for example, and I agree that these are exceptions when the state goes in and makes this kind of effort. But there are motives sometimes, and both our government and yours have made it for the teaching profession, for example, and the teachers are not even government employees, unfortunately. When Stefan Löfven says that the parties should handle it, I have to ask: "Excuse me, but who are the parties?" The police are government employees. The state is one party, and therefore the state cannot abdicate when an important function of society is collapsing. We have a crisis in the police, Stefan Löfven, which is bigger than in a very long time, and it happens during your time as Prime Minister. A central part of the crisis is that too few people want to be police officers in Sweden. It is not enough to set targets for Europe's lowest unemployment or better care and then just think that the targets work when the care queues grow and unemployment increases. It's the same thing here: It's not enough to set a case for more cops if nobody wants to be a cop! It's about a pay issue, Stefan Löfven – raise police salaries!
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-327	Mr President, I would like to Björklund now stands here and says: Who are the parties? If you do not even know who the parties are, then it is difficult, Björklund. Then it's hard. There are social partners. There is a police union on one side and an authority on the other side. They're going to negotiate the terms. I think that's the absolute best thing. What we did on the teacher side was just that: we provided resources, and then the parties have allocated the resources. That now means that about 65 000 teachers, if I remember correctly, have received $2,500 a month. We're shooting at resources, and the parties are taking responsibility for wage formation. It is the best for the Swedish labour market, and it will be the best for the police too.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-332	Mr President, I would like to The lack of care on time is acute. The care queues are growing, as we have heard not least in red-green-controlled county councils. A strong reason for this is that the government has abolished the queue billions, which was the most important tool for cutting queues. When the queue billion was abolished, it was not as it is usually called on the internet: You can never guess what happened next. You could guess what happened next, and that's what happened. So waiting times in healthcare have grown longer. The waiting times for surgery and specialist care are now among the longest in the EU. When we Christian Democrats were in charge of the care of the Alliance government, nine out of ten patients had surgery on time. That figure is now down to 75% and falling. Several parts of the care have problems. Trust declines in primary care. The waiting times at the emergency wards are also growing. Half of those who go to the emergency room have to wait more than three hours and every ten more than seven hours. So this is happening now, Stefan Löfven – not under the alliance government but now. It is the elderly and fragile who pay the price with an ever longer waiting period for care. Where are the government's reforms to break this? Vaga bets and new names of bets will not solve the problem. What the government has achieved so far is that for some groups it has become cheaper to sit or stand in ever longer care queues. That's bad health policy. Is it not time to let go of the prestige and admit that it was a big mistake to remove the queue billions and its principles and instead give a clear message about re-establishing it and seriously doing something about the care queues?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-339	Mr President, I would like to You're supposed to have care on time. That's absolutely right. The problem was that with the old so-called queue billions, as you – as I said earlier, and I believe that – surely introduced with the best intentions, queue times started to increase as early as 2014. It had been condemned by the Medical Association and the National Board of Health and Welfare, as it led to the wrong efforts. It was not that the person who first needed care received care first, but it was other priorities, and then the Medical Association said that we cannot have such a priority. Then you have to do differently, and what we are now doing with the patient billions is first of all to make sure that the health guarantee will hit faster. You should not have to wait seven days for a first visit to a general practitioner, but it should be shorter, and we are now looking at how much shorter we can say it should be. Secondly, about 1 million people have more complex needs. This means more efforts that need to be made in healthcare, more studies and treatments. This chain must become more known and uniform for the patient and for the care. Then care can be safer for the patient and more efficient. With the billion we spend, staffing will increase, skills development will increase, new methods will be introduced and digitalisation will be better used. These parts need to be developed in health care. We will allow three county councils to form a project so that we can see how, among other things, patient contact can be developed so that those with complex needs get faster and more efficient care.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-343	Mr President, I would like to This is real. People are in these care queues. The principles of the queue billion have not been understood, to pay compensation after performance, and it has not been noted that the queue billions changed their character over the years. When problems arose they changed in the queue billions. It became more precise and accomplished more of what it was aiming for. The requirements were constantly tightened, and the criteria for reimbursement were clearly defined. The problem is that the link between this type of vague bets and results is small. It was the new thing about the queue billion, not its exact construction. The Prime Minister is welcome to call the queue billion for something else; but return to the construction. The Prime Minister could give that message today, i.e. to provide compensation according to performance.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-347	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect, I listen more to the Medical Association, the profession, and the National Board of Health and Welfare than to the Christian Democrats and Forssmed. They know these questions. I'm sure the embodiment changed in the meantime, but I'm telling you that 2014 – the last year you ruled – began to increase the queues. This means that with the latest proposal the queues started to increase. Then there was the question of remuneration after performance. It all depends on what performance it is. I know what chords mean, Jakob Forssmed. If you are to be paid after how many patients you receive, it will not be the way the doctors want it to be. They want to accept the one who has the greatest need first. But if compensation is to be given after performance, to get as much paid as possible for as many visits as possible, the greatest need will not apply. It's against the doctors. We should not have such a system. There will be no more resources, Jakob Forssmed, for health care if you together are to reduce taxes by SEK 70 billion.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-351	Mr President, I would like to I listened to the Prime Minister during the party leader debate. The Prime Minister said drugs are a cursed poison that destroys and takes human lives. He concluded by saying that the drugs should be removed from Sweden. I share the Prime Minister's outrage at the drug problem. The first step in the fight against drugs must be to reduce the amount of drugs in society. I therefore wonder what the Prime Minister intends to do about the often very permissive view and leakage of drug-assisted treatments that cause people to get caught up in drug abuse and then fertilise drug crime. Moreover, these drugs are largely responsible for the increase in drug mortality. Another thing is that the drug police function hardly exists anymore.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-354	Mr President, I would like to The link with medicines must be the responsibility of the competent authorities and the health care system. They're the ones who deal with those questions. Drug use must be reduced in Sweden for many reasons, just as Avsan lists. That's why the police are putting in more resources to fight drug crime. That is why we want to see harder grips with those who make drugs available online to wider groups. We have to be tough on that. It is also true of those who make drugs available free of charge to young people, that is to say, to develop a new clientele. We have to hit that hard. There's no turning back. The gang crime is largely fattened by drug trafficking. That's why we all have to make sure we do what we can to get the drugs out of Sweden.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-358	Mr President, I would like to A few days ago, France's newly elected President Emmanuel Macron and Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel declared that France and Germany are getting ready to introduce a new EU Treaty. A common asylum policy and future debt are just some of the issues that we want to push through at European level. The EU would thus take a further gigantic step towards the formation of a federation of the EU. Since before, we all know that, following the Swedish referendum on EU membership, Parliament has already approved three Treaty changes. All treaties were approved without consulting the Swedish people. After the last Lisbon Treaty, power was transferred in no less than 68 policy areas. How many more political areas is the Prime Minister prepared to pass on to other nations and give influence to non-elected bureaucrats?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-362	Mr President, I would like to It is not even relevant to change the Treaty. Two leaders meet for the first time and say that they are prepared to review the Treaty. But that is not the case, and that is absolutely no priority for the government. The government's priority is to ensure that the EU, with its current treaties, is improved and streamlined. We need to be better at ensuring people's security against terror, hitting organised crime harder, ensuring that more people get into work – not least young people are going to work – strengthening the social dimension and so on. This is done within the framework of today's treaties. When the British voted on Brexit, we agreed that what we should prioritise here and now is to ensure that the EU becomes much more efficient and works better within the framework of the current treaties. It is not time for new Treaty discussions now. We will be busy with the Brexit negotiations. The fact that some leaders are having a discussion on future EU treaties is, of course, entirely legitimate, but I do not think it is before us.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-367	Mr President, I would like to We were reached this week with information that star programmer Tayyab Shabab will be expelled from Sweden due to a previous employer's minor administrative error. This is not a new problem, and there are more good hardworking people in our country who are at risk of expulsion because of the same problem. It is a disgrace to Sweden, and it has been an indecent prudence from the government because this problem is not new. It is hard to understand that we have not solved this problem, have not followed up the labour immigration law that exists and have not protected those like Tayyab Shabab from being thrown out of the country. Stefan Löfven! How can your government be so meek in this work?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-371	Mr President, I would like to It is important to keep track of immigration, including labour migration. However, it should not be the case that companies that commit simpler errors should thus have to say that an employee cannot remain in work. For this reason, we are reviewing the rules. An entity shall be able to correct what has gone wrong. If a company has not acted intentionally, it should of course be able to do so. We are reviewing that problem, and it will be corrected. It is a major problem for the Center Party, which wants more or less free labour immigration. People will be able to come here, work, and do whatever they want. Then the labour market would be disastrous. There should be order in immigration, including labour migration. We will correct what causes small errors to have major consequences, but otherwise it should be orderly.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-375	Mr President, I would like to A little over a year ago, the Prime Minister wrote a debate article at DN Debate together with the Minister for Civil Affairs about state jobs being available throughout the country. As a result, the Swedish Tax Agency stopped its planned relocation of nine offices from the countryside. The Prime Minister wrote, among other things, that we need to find a balance between presence in the country and efficiency in our authorities. ..................................................... In January, a joint parliamentary rural committee, on which I was a member, presented the proposal to recommend to the government to relocate 10 000 state jobs from the Stockholm region to other parts of the country. But so far, the government is only taking ant steps: 100 jobs at the E-Health Agency are transferred to Kalmar, 19 jobs at Fastighetsmäklarinspektionen to Karlstad and 30 jobs at SCB to Örebro. That, in my opinion – although I live in Karlstad – is far too much focus on large cities. Does the Prime Minister intend to relocate jobs from the Stockholm region to other parts of the country?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-378	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, that's it. As Håkan Svenneling says, we have begun that work, and we intend to continue it. Starting from exactly how many jobs there should be leads a little wrong. We must also look at the functioning of the authorities during this time and afterwards, so let us look at what is pragmatically right to do. But, yes, we have that direction, and we intend to continue that work.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-380	Mr President, I would like to The Council of Finance Ministers' report that came this week became a slap in the face of the red-green government's economic policy. In particular, the Council points to major shortcomings in the housing sector. Housing prices in Sweden have doubled in ten years, and household indebtedness now stands at 180 per cent of household income. That's a record. Liberals want to reduce interest reductions by 1% per year over a ten-year period until they reach 20% and at the same time offset it against reduced income tax. Göran Persson thinks like we do. Anders Borg, Konjunkturinstitutet, OECD, the European Commission and many others think just like the Liberals. The resistance of the Social Democrats and the Moderates is only about game theory and political tactics. The reduction is needed, Stefan Löfven, to curb indebtedness and house prices in Sweden. That is why my question to the Prime Minister, who has spoken a lot about the experts here: is the government willing to let go of the prestige, listen to the experts and actually lower the interest rebates?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-384	Mr President, I would like to Shut up seems to be a popular concept now. I think I read it in Expressen today. I think it was just as big a mouth in the bourgeois direction. What the Council of Finance Ministers said – now listen carefully! – was this: we should not have any major tax cuts now. That is not the recipe for Sweden. As far as the housing market is concerned, it is now being built more than ever. For me, if we are to bring down prices of housing, supply needs to meet demand better. We have had a shortage of housing for many years. It was built far too little during the time of the bourgeois government – far too little. Now we're up to 72,000 homes, and that's good. We are still keeping a close eye on what is happening on the financial market with regard to loans. There is no doubt that this is a concern. But we cannot act in such a way that we are the ones who push the button and trigger uncertainty in the Swedish market, because then it becomes worse for those who have now made the biggest deal of their lives.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-389	Mr President, I would like to At the Congress of the Social Democrats some time ago, the decision was made to remove religion at school. According to the decision, Christian schools and preschools should no longer be able to have grace or devotion. Already municipalities have said no to the Swedish Church being allowed to start preschools with reference to the decisions of the Social Democrats. Now many schools and preschools are reacting and talking about closing down their businesses around the country. Many feel a threat to religious freedom. At the same time, a Sifo survey is presented in the newspaper Dagen. According to it, a majority of the Swedish people want to allow Christian schools and preschools.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-392	Mr President, I would like to Now I am here as Prime Minister and not as Chairman of the Party, and the rules that we now have are now. But I like to problematize what I see as one of our major concerns in school: We are getting a school that slides apart and pulls society apart. When I grew up and went to school, we had the order to go to school together. It meant getting to know each other across class boundaries. We believed in different things, but we got to know each other. It builds trust in society. Today we have a school that is increasingly divisive, and that is a major problem. That some who believe in one should go to a school, others who believe in the other should go to another school and a third group who do not believe in anything should go to a third school is not good. Let us problematize it, because I am absolutely convinced that Sweden is the best when we meet across borders already as a child.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-395	Mr President, I would like to Swedish health care is in many ways good, and it is a cornerstone of the Swedish model. However, healthcare is also facing major challenges, and to meet them, primary care needs to be developed in order for more people to get help and help quickly. Today, I received a report from the Care Analysis that describes that primary care does not have the necessary conditions for better accessibility, putting the patient at the centre and being the first natural entrance to care. Tomorrow I will visit a health centre in Östergötland, so I wonder: What can I tell the Prime Minister and the Government about primary care and the conditions for development?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-398	Mr President, I would like to I was at a health center in Hofors yesterday. It was a very nice visit. But, sure, they described challenges. There is no doubt that there are challenges there. Now we have added part two after Stiernstedt's investigation to look at how we get more resources for primary care. I think that if we consider that we in Sweden have a little more than 80 hospitals but more than 1 000 health centres, the conclusion is quite simple: If we add more resources to the health centres, the care will come closer. We must of course discuss carefully at the state level but also with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils, the regions and county councils how this should be done so that we do not interfere with the care during this transformation. But the fact that we want to focus on more resources for primary care is quite clear, and we intend to continue working from outside.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-402	Mr President, I would like to In France, Emmanuel Macron won the presidential election against Marine Le Pen. Parties and movements that represent progressivity and development are placed around Europe against parties that represent pessimism and populism. When values such as democracy, development and humanity are at stake, I hope that confidence in the future will prevail over abandonment. The policy of hope must prevail over that of hatred. Macron will be a positive and important force for EU cooperation. I therefore wonder how the Prime Minister intends to work with the new French President to strengthen and develop EU cooperation together.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-405	Mr President, I would like to Maria Ferm is absolutely right. We have good relations with France and have had it for a long time. We will also have it with President Macron; I am absolutely convinced of that. I spoke to him on the phone a few days ago. We talked, among other things, about the European Union, about the need for a more efficient Europe. I also said that we are not very fond of the talk of much more supranationality. That is not our priority. The priority for us is to make Europe work better as it is today within the framework of the Treaty. But there is no doubt that we will have good cooperation. The social dimension was clear about – he too wants to make it better and clearer without transferring decision-making powers. Macron has also said that he is happy to come to Sweden at the social summit that we are going to have in Gothenburg. He'll be there to give his picture. I am absolutely convinced that we will have good cooperation with France for the development of the European Union.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-410	Mr President, I would like to My home county Dalarna is a large tourist county where many come in summer to celebrate midsummer but also to enjoy the beautiful nature. But this summer the police in Dalarna close 15 of the county's 17 stations because you don't have money. It's a job freeze. Nor can you afford to hire summer Vikings, says the Chief of Police. From June 19th, i.e. before midsummer, until August 25th, the stations will be closed in Dalarna. Of course this is causing concern. What does the Prime Minister think of this situation?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-413	Mr President, I would like to I cannot, of course, comment on exactly how to organise the police in Dalarna during the holiday; I hope the honourable Member will understand that. However, this whole discussion is a sign that we need more resources for the police. That is why we have brought to and for more resources: just this year another SEK 700 million, precisely in order for the police to have more resources for salaries, conditions, employment and staffing. But exactly how to allocate these resources and how to keep the police offices open must be fully managed. However, we are careful to tell you that we must have your police officers, and they must be closer to the citizens. That is also the whole direction of the reorganisation, so I assume that the authority will live up to it.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-417	Mr President, I would like to It may not be a secret to the Prime Minister but perhaps something less known to the Swedish people that Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist is meeting his American colleague Matti today in Washington D.C. Yesterday, Minister of Defence Hultqvist also gave a speech in the US where he referred, among other things, to the Swedish Government's decision to allocate more money to the defence already in the spring 2017 amending budget. It was a demand that the Moderates made in January of this year. Then the Prime Minister said, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I would now like to ask the Prime Minister: If he thinks that more money would be needed for 2018 to increase Swedish defence capabilities, is it funding bingo? The 500 million we proposed has now also become 500 million in our amending budget. If we say billions by 2018, does the Prime Minister say that it is also budget bingo?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-420	Mr President, I would like to The caption bingo was, because it was a variety of numbers that veined into the air. You can always start with the numbers. The government starts with what is actually needed and how the defence can actually implement the reinforcements. It's not just adding money, it's actually going to happen something too. It is about both equipment and staff, and both need to be strengthened. We've got a deal, and that's good. You shouldn't be mad if you get along, Wallmark- you can be happy then. We intend to continue to pursue this direction. We agree on the things that the Swedish defence needs to do and live up to: receive the resources and implement them. We must not just turn around with a lot of numbers, but must do so de facto. But it is very likely that we need to add additional resources to the defence; it is no secret that we think so.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-423	Mr President, the Prime Minister. Today, the government presented its digitalisation strategy, and that is great. One of the goals identified is that our country should have the best conditions for digital innovation. This is of course very good, both for Swedish companies and for Swedish competitiveness. But I'm still a little worried, because at the beginning of the week we got reports from Kista and Barkarby, where public bureaucracy stands in the way of innovative development of self-driving buses. This type of experiment is currently taking place all over the world. In Europe, for example, this happens in Switzerland, where we now have self-driving buses, and in our neighbouring capitals Oslo and Helsinki, where we are in the start-up phase. We in Stockholm and Sweden have been at the forefront, and I'm a little worried that we'll be overtaken. Therefore, my question is: What is the government doing to ensure that Sweden continues to be at the forefront of digital innovation?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-426	Mr President, I would like to This is done, among other things, through the strategy that we are now developing. We want to go wide. For example, we already have an electric road in Sweden. We will develop this and want to set up so-called demonstrators, where we can show that Sweden is the best at this. We are among the first with electric roads for trucks, and we will also be at the forefront in the case of, for example, driverless vehicles. One should, however, have some thought. Driverless vehicles are not entirely safe. In these times when there is talk of cybersecurity and we see attacks in the IT world, it should be borne in mind that there are also risks with this. We need to think this through carefully so that we do not have a situation where we have driverless vehicles that can be hijacked by others. So let us look at the possibilities and risks! Sweden should be at the forefront here.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-430	Mr President, I would like to My question concerns the heart of the Swedish model. In the port of Gothenburg there is conflict. There is a collective agreement between the employer and the union, and peace obligations should apply. For a year, there has been conflict in different dimensions, and now there is a warning of lockout. Half of the flows of goods into and out of the port of Gothenburg would then disappear. This has a major impact on Swedish exports and imports – for Swedish foreign trade. It will pose huge problems for the environment because the goods are now going on a truck instead of by port and by rail. My question, which I and several colleagues have asked Ylva Johansson before, is: What does the government do? Is the Prime Minister prepared to protect Swedish exports by legislating and helping to resolve the conflict?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-433	Mr President, I would like to This is precisely the heart of the Swedish model, and then you do not just step over to legislation. The Swedish model includes the partnership as a very important part. I am, of course, also concerned about a conflict that is going on for so long. It can have serious consequences. But the root of the Swedish model is precisely this: one party buys wages and conditions, and the other party buys work peace. Then, according to the legislation we have, it is permitted to also resort to combat measures for collective agreements or meet with lockouts. On the other hand, this is decided by the Labour Court. What we are doing is now looking at how big this problem is. Generally speaking, we have very few conflict days in the Swedish labour market, and we should be happy about that. Compared to many other countries, there is a very high degree of working peace. But let's see how big the problem is. That is the first thing that we have commissioned the Mediation Institute.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-437	Mr President, I would like to The government has set an ambitious and important target: to have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. We know that small businesses play an extremely important role in creating new jobs. Especially here in the Stockholm region, small businesses have a major role to play in creating a viable region. If more of the country's one-man companies were to employ one more person, it would have a major impact on employment and thus on reducing unemployment. Only in my municipality of Sundbyberg are there currently 945 one-man entrepreneurs, and in the Stockholm region as a whole 99 000. However, we must bear in mind that, unfortunately, only one third of one-man entrepreneurs in Sweden today are women.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-440	Mr President, I would like to In general, when we make our social investments – the huge investments in housing, roads, railways and education – it is clear that they also benefit small businesses. This is extremely important. That is what makes the economy tough and go as much as it does, along with the fact that we have an international boom; it makes things easier. In addition, we have reviewed and changed funding, not least for small businesses, entrepreneurs and single entrepreneurs. How to get more funding for the investments you need to make? We want to put an end to the long pay-offs. Many of the small businesses are allowed to act as banks for the larger companies when they spend their payments. We need to deal with this. The third is that we are also reviewing the social security systems for small businesses so that, even as a small business, you can feel safe if you fall ill or otherwise cannot work as a self-employed person. Then we have a growth support that allows you to get a good subsidy for the first job you do.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-445	Mr President, I would like to Few have been able to escape the attention that the Swedish Institute's official Swedish Twitter account @ Sweden gained during the week. The agency went out and described that people involved in drifting, threats, hatred and incitement had been blocked, and that these people had a connection to right-wing extremism and neo-Nazism. But after it turned out that the block list included politicians from three parliamentary parties, Israel's ambassador, Israel's Foreign Ministry, liberal leaders and even a Social Democratic mayor from Denmark, it was removed. However, Factum remains. Hundreds or thousands of innocent people have been identified as disgusting extremists by a Swedish authority and added to an opinion register that has been requested and is now searchable on the Internet for anyone.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-448	Mr President, I would like to This is an issue that needs to be addressed with the relevant authority. We assume that everyone adheres to the rules and laws that we have in our country. I am not going to comment on the individual incident in the Authority, but the Authority itself is responsible for what has been done, why and so on. That's the answer I can give.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-449	Mr President, I would like to In recent weeks I have visited many companies together with Företagarna, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the LRF in the activity Like entrepreneurship in my constituency. I saw that the Prime Minister visited Gästrikland yesterday. Many entrepreneurs have expressed great dissatisfaction and disappointment with the government's entrepreneurial policy. The disappointment that exists throughout Sweden over the government's industrial policy is surely well known to the Prime Minister. One issue that has been raised by many companies is that they have few applicants for the vacant positions. One explanation given when you ask about the reason is that the government has raised the subsidies so much that for many people it is not worthwhile to work, simply. Premium increases combined with large tax increases have made it less profitable to work. So my question to the Prime Minister is: Is it reasonable for job seekers to prefer the unemployment fund or other benefits instead of taking the available job vacancies, and if so, what does the Prime Minister intend to do about that problem?
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-453	Mr President, I would like to It'll pay off to work. It pays to work. Anyone who can work will work. You can't just say that you're not going to take a job and then go to the unemployment fund instead. That's not how the rules work, and that's not how they should work. If you can work, you'll work! There is no doubt about it. I wonder, however, what the moderate tactics look like. When you're going to lower your wages, it's less attractive to work. That's no better. What we do for companies is of great importance. We have concluded a broad energy agreement. Companies have been asking for this for many years. We're getting the housing building going. Companies have been asking for this for many years. We are improving the financing opportunities for small businesses. They've been asking for that for years. They ask for competent staff and do not find staff with the right training. Now we are making a huge investment in skills development so that they will also find competent staff. On that road, we intend to continue. It should always pay off to work. Anyone who can work will work.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-458	That concludes Question Time for the week. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and fellow Members for attending Question Time.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-459	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report on Gambling and Education. For time-winning, I do not support any reservation, but I support the reservations that include the Christian Democrats. I will devote most of my speech to what has to do with human destinies, namely gambling addiction. My fellow alliances have raised other issues well before. Today, the gambling market is like a wild West. Gambling companies, often based in Malta, often pick up people's financial vulnerability, attracting quick opportunities for profit and short time between bet and win. New players are tempted with free games and gifts, while old players are convinced of new stakes to regain what has been lost. Celebrities do here and there advertising for gambling, which in turn leads to shine spread and that gambling can be seen as legitimate. Of course, these celebrities also get their share of the cake. Marketing is often brutal and quite dangerous. An advertisement reportedly said: quit your job – buy a ticket! Gambling destroys people's lives and destroys families. The Public Health Agency estimates that approximately 171 000 people, including 82 000 children, live with someone who has gambling problems. Approximately one in five persons states that they have someone in their close surroundings who has gambling problems. The unregulated market is growing while gambling addiction is increasing. Unserious gaming companies see an opportunity to make money at the expense of vulnerable people. To deafen their guilty conscience, they speak beautifully of their efforts to reduce gambling addiction. At the same time, they make every effort to capture new customers, to ensure that old customers stay and that big players get their own cream files. For me, they would have made all the money they want in their companies, if it weren't for destroying so many people's lives. Then someone thinks: We should retain the monopoly, where Svenska Spel owns the market in Sweden. But then we turn a blind eye to reality, where in practice the monopoly does not exist. Foreign gaming companies, which are not authorised to organise lottery in Sweden, currently have a market share of 23 per cent of the total Swedish gaming market, according to the Swedish Gaming Authority's statistics from the third quarter 2016. The international online market is basically completely unregulated and resembles, as I said, the Wild West. Gambling companies without a licence in Sweden have over 50 percent of the market share for online gambling. Someone may think that Svenska Spel with its monopoly protects the gambling addicts, but it is a truth with modification. In any case, they do not do so to a large extent in relation to revenues. I may not be on the decimal point right, but Svenska Spel's financial commitment to work with gambling addiction is reportedly equivalent to two weeks of normal marketing in Sweden for Svenska Spel. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats believe that it is high time to review legislation and enable competition through licences. We therefore welcome most of the Gaming Investigation's proposals in this area and look forward to a government proposal. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the investigator Håkan Hallstedt for listening to the views we have expressed throughout the political spectrum. We look forward to good proposals on the part of the government that we will take a position on in due course. Common and sustainable rules of the game are to be created. A licensing system will be established, to which online gambling companies will hopefully join. Tax revenues should be secured and the fairly fragile gambling domains of association life, essentially lotteries, and revenues should be protected, and so on. These are some of the proposals of the Gaming Investigation. When we see an increasing number of families and individuals getting involved in gambling addiction, action and targeted efforts are required. The Swedish Public Health Agency, the Swedish Consumer Agency and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority must cooperate with the Swedish Lottery Inspectorate in order to overcome the problem. This with gambling addiction will not be fully solved, to 100 percent, as long as people find pleasure and joy in playing. It's not just wrong. I'm not saying it's just negative. Yet, when you see how people are affected, this becomes a serious aspect of the matter. Gambling addiction can be prevented. Some suggestions on how to 中 balanced marketing, where gambling must not be presented as a solution to economic problems Support and information on gambling sites to prevent gambling abuse 中 the ability to limit deposits and playing time as well as a central self-exclusion register
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-476	中 the ability to turn off people who exhibit an unsound gambling. My personal view is that gambling addicts should be given the right to treatment under the Social Services Act, which is a matter for the Social Affairs Committee. Mr President, I would like to For those who are already in an economic tragedy because of gambling, there are thankfully organisations that support and help. The Swedish Gambling Addiction Association works to prevent and remedy gambling addiction, and another example is the Uppsala Gambling Addiction Centre, where the municipality cooperates. However, the fact that only a few out of 290 municipalities – the latest figure I heard was that there are 6 out of 290 municipalities – are cooperating in such activities shows that there is still much to be done. Meanwhile, people continue to be drawn into what all too often ends in economic and social tragedy. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by saying something about the education of the people. For us Christian Democrats, education is important. I have studied study circles a little, and I have been fascinated by a man named Oscar Olsson – or Olsson with his beard. He was a social democrat and the one who started this with study circles in Sweden. All credit to Olsson with the beard! There were no state funds, but instead knowledge was shared. It was important for the home and the countryside; you got knowledge, some education and so on. It is a freedom for people to participate in the study associations, and together with the libraries and folk high schools are the cornerstones of the education in Sweden. Let me conclude with the following words: Education gives skills – peoples' education brings dignity.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-481	Mr President, I would like to The policy of social democrats for cultural and democratic education is a key part of our community-building. It is about freeing people, strengthening the capacity for development in society and deepening democracy. In this, peoples' education has a given role. The starting point is to look to the whole human being. It is a question of freedom to discover and develop new aspects of oneself and reach its full potential. Similarly, cultural and democratic education is a tool for people to understand their context and be able to influence their life situation. The society that provides these tools to people becomes a better society. Public education as a source of new knowledge and perspectives, new languages, expressions and exchanges is just such a tool. No matter where our cultural and democratic education journey begins, it is important to us as individuals and to society. Cultural and democratic education is also central to our ability to cope with transitions. When we do not fear change but feel confident in finding ways forward, we can face the future much better. Whether it be economic cycles, structural changes in the labour market or climate change, intellectual and social mobility are great assets for us in terms of our ability to change. It is about being able to change both in thought and in physical life. The ability of society to develop depends on the formation of its citizens. Cultural and democratic education is a matter of both preparedness and belief in the future, and it is part of the Swedish model. Peoples' education maintains inalienable arenas and contact areas for people to handle urban transformations and the new realities. Without education, we risk stagnating. The democratic aspect of the formation of the people is basically that democracy should go from formal to real – that it should be borne by the majority of the people. All people should be able to influence their lives and society. For that to be possible, we need to be able to understand society. We need to be able to analyse it critically and know how we can change it. Democratic citizens who organize themselves in living peoples' movements and rich associations make democracy become reality in everyday life. It is also in this way that everyone can influence the future and everyday life, on an equal basis regardless of wallet or background. The actors in public education reach out to society, in breadth and depth, like few others. It increases trust in people, creates a sense of belonging and gets more people involved in our community. When there are forces that want to undermine belief in democracy, either through parliament or through propaganda or fear, the formation of people is one of our most important resistances. Mr President, I would like to Public education is free and voluntary. It is built from below, by the people themselves, and the state here takes a rather conscious distance so as not to restrict that freedom. At the same time, the state has a goal with the money we give to peoples' education, so it goes without saying that the state is anxious for the funds to have the intended effect. This interaction requires mutual respect. In addition, peoples' education is very committed to being involved in building society, and during the term of office the government has very concretely included peoples' education in the construction of society. A given example is the knowledge boost. We know that this is the way to more people getting jobs and that you should be able to get the right skills. We also know that this is the way forward for Sweden to continue to be a nation of knowledge and not a nation that competes with lower wages and conditions. The government has therefore increased the number of seats in folk high schools by 5,000. It is in order for people to be able to move forward in life and for the labour market to develop. Another very concrete example of how the government has included peoples' education in the construction of society is the formation of all new arrivals. Thanks to the study associations that exist throughout the country – from north to south, in the smallest towns and in the largest cities – newcomers have been able to find answers to questions such as: How do I speak the language? How does society work? What are the rules? How can I be involved in social development? How can I contribute? How can I get on with it? Only in the autumn of 2015 did the study associations organise language introduction and social introduction for over 70 000 new arrivals. Then it has continued, and it is a commitment that comes from below, from the study associations themselves. This is integration in practice. It's about taking advantage of our human resources. Mr President, I would like to In the report under discussion here, there are some points to make. First of all, we can note that the Moderates are reducing general aid by 13 million, which is a reduction in wages. In addition, the total allocation for integration allocated to the study associations is abolished, which is 175 million. Secondly, there is a reservation in the report signed by the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats. The reservation briefly says that the trend of temporary funds should be turned into an increase in the overall contribution. The spirit of this is in many ways reasonable and sympathetic. The concern is only how the parties act in practice. The Center Party, which supports the reservation, retains the temporary funds for integration but reduces the general allocation by 13 million – the same as the Moderates. It is not a major change, but it is out of line with what the reservations say. The Christian Democrats do not retain the temporary means of integration, but cut 135 out of 175 million. In addition, they cut the overall budget by 108 million. The same is true of the Liberals, who are the authors of the reservation. They retain the temporary funds but reduce the overall allocation by 188 million. It's all the knowledge-lifting sites that smoke. Here we have three variants of an action that is probably only possible in opposition. The third comment concerns the Swedish Democrats. They are removing all means of integration. In addition, they cut back on interpreting training so that language understanding also suffers. They cut down on the general budget by 310 million. In addition to the severe economic consequences that this would have, their justification for it is a serious attack on the basic principles of civilisation. They want, on the one hand, to prevent people from starting their educational journey where they actually stand, and, on the other hand, to limit the type of education that people are allowed to engage in and what is to be accepted. Mr President, I would like to Again, for us social democrats, cultural and democratic education is a key element in the construction of society. It is about the freedom of man, the capacity for development in society and the deepening of democracy. It's not a sprinkle on top of the cake, it's the binder itself in it, what makes it stick together. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for reservations to be rejected.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-497	Mr President, I would like to I thought for a while that I was completely wrong and had the wrong report in front of me. It is not the budget report that we are going to discuss today, but a report with motions from the general period of exercise, if I have understood correctly. That's how it is. It's not budget we're going to discuss. When I've been listening to everyone here, I realize that almost everyone wants the same good thing about public education. It's good for Sweden, good for people, good for community building, and so on. We all see the same mountaintop in some way, but we have different paths there. That's very much the case. Clearly, peoples' education makes Sweden a stronger country. It is study associations and folk high schools that are involved in folk education. They have many important tasks. One of them is to strengthen democracy and develop it. This in turn means that more people can participate and influence their life situation and also participate in the development of Sweden. The distinctiveness of public education goes like a red thread through the history of education. Breaking alienation is an important prerequisite for a successful Sweden. Here peoples' education contributes, as it increases the level of education and education generally in Sweden. Folkbildning also gives people the opportunity for personal development, meaningful leisure time, participation in cultural life and an increased commitment to social development. An important work going on in study associations and in folk high schools is to break the exclusion. I should like to mention here what Björ Wiechel said about SFI education. The 2015 Migration Agreement, supported by the Moderates, has made it possible for so many people to read SFI. The way out of unemployment, exclusion and poverty always goes by strengthening one's own person. It may be a person who is newly arrived in Sweden or a person who has been unemployed for a long time or who for other reasons has not been on the labour market. It is education and competence development that strengthens one's own person. The study associations offer mainly study circles but also cultural programmes and other adult education activities. Folkhögskolan organises courses and can give eligibility equivalent to, for example, primary school or university eligibility. They also organise cultural programmes and have an open public education. Common to folk education and to those of us who are involved in folk education is that it is in the encounter with other people that we are growing. The circles or courses we attend are controlled by participants. It's a very good pedagogy you use. It is positive pedagogy that suits many people. The teaching should be conducted according to my needs and where I am. We are living in a knowledge-intensive time, if one is to use such an expression, where lifelong learning is still important. This is something coined perhaps 15 years ago when we started talking about lifelong learning. This is still the case, even though the spirit of it has changed. Today we are talking about digitalisation, globalisation and a technological development that is going on all the time. We need to learn new things in our professions all the time. This is necessary in order to meet the level of education. There we have the education of the people as a strong and good partner. Both study associations and folk high schools have a long experience in educating people. If we make the right use of this experience, the whole of Folkbildningssverige can contribute to work, welfare and lifelong learning. Folkbildning is extensive and incredibly rich in content. It meets new needs in society. This is precisely why it is important that peoples' education should follow the development of society so that it goes hand in hand with what is happening in the society. This applies whether it is about continuing training, lifelong learning, digitalisation, globalisation, etc. We have seen how peoples' education has given newcomers a tool to get out into society and get by in society. Public education provides increased self-confidence, personal development, increased knowledge and skills and increased opportunities to make your voice heard. It's about learning to speak for yourself and being able to influence your own life situation or something else you think is boring. Then peoples' education is very important. Then peoples' education can also be very funny. Everything doesn't have to be so healthy. It can be fun to attend a course at a study association and, for example, cook or something else. There you get fellowship with other people. Sometimes it's enough that it's just fun.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-511	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the Culture Committee's report No 6 on Games and Education. I wasn't going to talk much about public education issues. I really think that Björn Wiechel has said what I agree with. I intend to dwell on the parts that deal with gambling. We have had a number of exercise reports since autumn's general exercise time. That was before the Gaming Investigation came up with its report. Now we are debating just when the investigation has gone out for a referral and we are actually waiting, at most, for next year's debate, where we hope we can talk about a proposal. We look forward to that very much. Many here have been into a lot of the exercise, and I'm not going to talk about the exercise that deals with regulation. There, most parties agree that there should be a re-regulation, and that is under way with the Spel investigation. But I'm going to dive into some of the exercises. The first exercise I intend to talk about is the one that Per Lodenius highlighted earlier in the debate, namely a motion by Rickard Nordin on games as a cultural form. Sometimes you can think about whether the Center Party wants games to be sports or whether it should be culture. A lot of people also think that it should be nourished. Actually, I can only agree that there are parts that belong to culture. I would like to remind you that there is a great deal that the state is already doing today. For example, the Royal Library has a mission to collect, acquire and describe films, music and games. You research the culture of games, what happens when you play and how the games are structured. I think that's an interesting mission, and I can really recommend visits to the Royal Library to take part of many of the old games that are saved there. The second thing I intend to dive into is what Roland Utbolt mentioned about gambling addiction. Much is already being done there. Roland highlighted what Svenska Spel does when it comes to playing cards, for example, but it should not be forgotten that Svenska Spel is funding the research and professorship that exists in this area today. There are also many suggestions in this area in connection with the Gaming Investigation. But what I think many of us really applaud is that here in Parliament we have made a proposal to include gambling addiction in the Social Services Act as early as next year. I think we can all be pleased that the government finally came up with that bill. I shall go back to the question of the border between gaming and gambling, which Per Lodenius raised. I don't think it's that simple. There is a lot that blurs between film and game when it comes to culture, but there are also many boundaries that blur between the social games and gambling. There are many social games where you indirectly play about money, and it is very addictive games that give quick money and draw in large amounts of money. One issue that I think we will have to come back to is where the different boundaries go between games. With this, I would like to call for the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Culture to be approved. I am very much looking forward to and very much hope that next year we may perhaps be able to debate a very large proposal report on reregulated gaming policy.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-520	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate the KrU10 report on the arts and the conditions for the creators of culture. It is a motion report, that is to say, motions that have been submitted during the general period of exercise. We have five reservations on this matter. Of course we are Moderates behind all these, but I only support reservation 1. My alliance friends will address many of the important issues contained in the report. I intend to concentrate only on one area and, in my opinion, the most important area of art, namely literature. They used to say scale art, but nowadays they say more modern literature. Literature and children's right to literature were one of the main priorities of the alliance government during our reign. We laid the foundation for highlighting the importance of literature and reading for the development of societies in principle. The present government, made up of Social Democrats and environmentalists with the help of the Left, has done some good things in this area. Instead of concentrating on the important efforts, however, they have been smudged out so that they do not pay very well and are not very effective. After all, it is important that the incentives are directed right. We know that this strategy results in those who are already read-motivated and have access to literature benefiting even more, while those who do not have stimulation or motivation are left out. That's not good, we think Moderates and the Alliance. If the Social Democrats now want a budget debate in this report, too, I can already agree that our proposal is funded. What I mean by the importance of literature and reading for society as a whole is that it is the basis for linguistic and intellectual development, not only for children but also for us adults. Children's reading is much more than a desire on the part of society for new generations to be educated and literary. It is about young people being able to take hold of their own development and take in knowledge. If you can read and have the opportunity to study, you can change your own life. We Moderates want the extra reading bet to go to groups that today do not have access to it. We want to target children and young people in socio-economically weak areas. In today's technology society, Mr President, both audiobooks and other technical aids can be used to provide children who find it difficult to focus on helping to absorb literature. Through stimulation of several senses, both vision and hearing, more children can assimilate the literature. It is important that we use digital technology and its opportunities in this area. The government should take this into account and invest considerably more in than it has done and take into account its future reading efforts, because access to literature and reading is important, not only for children and young people, but for society as a whole.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-528	Mr President, I would like to In the Art and Culture Creators' Conditions report, we are dealing with many motions which might not have been thought to end up in this bloc in the first place. I say this to those of you who listen and may be confused. Last year we woke up a motion that got quite noticed. The motion is that we want to bring libraries' missions closer to the citizens. That is a position of principle, in which we want the tax-funded activities to also go to those of us who are involved in financing them. We have the same basic position in health care and school. This debate was held last year, so I will not go into this in today's debate. I will briefly comment on our second reservation in the library area. It is about libraries prioritising a collection of literature in Swedish and in our minority languages before books written in other languages. The arguments are partly the same as I mentioned earlier, but the libraries are also responsible for protecting our language. Officially, we speak Swedish and our minority languages. Mr President, I would like to Now I'm going to talk about film. The biggest bill before the Minister presented the cultural heritage bill was the one about the film. The film was last year's hottest cultural policy issue and was debated extensively. Many times we have discussed and explained our opinion. Our reservation is about financing, and there is an announcement. We are asking for an unbiased investigation into a differentiated cinema fee for domestic and non-European films. This would give the Swedish film a much-needed addition while increasing the domestic competitiveness of Swedish film.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-534	The Swedish Democrats are the whole of Sweden's party, and we do not want the small town cinemas to be affected by Stockholm politics, which there seems to be a preference for. If we are to have a living countryside, there must also be something to do. The cinemas play an important role here, not least for young people and families. Mr President, I would like to I wonder: is the increase in VAT really the best way forward? My answer is, no, it's not. The fact that the government neither sees this nor listens to the majority in parliament is regrettable. I stand here today to remind the Minister and the other parties once again that we are not going to lie down and let the decisions made fall into the pile and we-tar-it-later. A decision has been made – make sure to implement it now! Mr President, I would like to I was going to mention something about our autumn budget because an appropriation is being made in this area. We raise the Opera's funding by 9.8 million to the renovation that the machinery needs. We are making this increase because the need exists and because we do not want them to borrow money. Of course, I support all our reservations, but I call for the approval of reservation 12.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-540	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is becoming an increasingly multicultural country, creating many new opportunities. Culture also strengthens self-confidence and makes more people take advantage of freedom of expression. This in turn strengthens participation and democracy in our society. The fact that we have free artists and cultural creators who can work without the risk of censorship and oppression is crucial for an open and democratic society. Wherever we can see tendencies to the threat of free creation, we must exist and stand up for the democratic and open society we want. When democracy is threatened in a country, it is free speech, freedom of the press and free art that are at the forefront to be broken down. There are many places in the world where artists risk their lives to describe with their art the world in which they live. Sweden must then give those artists who have had to flee for their artistry the opportunity to continue their creation. Protecting democracy, free speech and artistic freedom is a common task for all democratic countries. In Sweden, several municipalities and regions provide sanctuary to professional artists who live under threat in their home countries. Here the artist gets a sanctuary for a few years in order to be able to live and continue working with his creation in security. It is important that as many municipalities and regions as possible provide sanctuary for persecuted artists. It can also, as a further positive effect, provide an important addition to the culture and development of the municipality and the region. During the alliance government, the number of city-of-secure municipalities increased steadily. It is work that must continue. Democracy must be constantly defended. It can never be taken for granted. It is important that we continue to work to ensure that more artists who need a sanctuary in order to be able to practice their artistry are given the opportunity to get this sanctuary in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to There is potential and great competence in the field of culture all over the country. At the same time, a great deal of national expertise today lies in big cities, and most of all in our capital city. What I want to point out is that we are missing a lot of talent and creativity in the country that should benefit more people. We in the Center Party want to change this. Through digital technology, much culture and knowledge has become more accessible to many more. It has become easier to spread culture, and the opportunity for participation is now greater than ever. The technological developments we are in the midst of give more opportunity to find an expression that suits them. It also creates companies, jobs and export income. The opportunity to both take part in culture and create itself through digital technology must be taken into account. We can't afford to stand side by side. We have creative entrepreneurship that engages many people, and we do not know today what new cultural expressions will emerge as technology continues to develop. At the same time, we know that the conditions for cultural creators are often tough. This is true for cultural creators all over the country, but perhaps even more so for artists outside our metropolitan areas. The income of artists and cultural creators is generally low in relation to the time they spend on their creation and in relation to the education they have received. They also often act as freelancers and often as self-employed workers. We therefore see in the Center Party that it is important to review tax and deduction rules in order to create a level playing field for entrepreneurs and freelancers in the cultural sector. In short, there is a need for a completely different policy from the fiscal and anti-business policies pursued by the left-wing government. Instead, in the Center Party, we see the potential of artistic entrepreneurship. For example, we propose a new form of business that is perfect for the cultural creators who want to test whether the idea they have for their creation works. We call the proposal a start-up. It does not require any knowledge of the bureaucracy or tax legislation associated with entrepreneurship today. No VAT needs to be entered in the accounts, no own contribution is paid and no provisional tax is calculated. The only thing that the input entrepreneur needs to keep track of is the turnover in the company, where a ceiling should be provided. Instead of the usual taxes and charges, you have to pay a tax of 25%, based on turnover. With the Center Party's proposal for entry into business, more cultural creators in our country could create more with less bureaucracy. There may be advantages in working as a self-employed person in the cultural sector. It is something I myself have experience of as a dance teacher and self-employed person. However, the threshold for entrepreneurship and freelance work is currently unnecessarily high. This threshold must be lowered. Mr President, I would like to One of the cultural forms we are discussing today is the film. It is perhaps the cultural form that most people take part in. Not least cinema culture is an important and accessible cultural form throughout the country. The cinema is also a cultural form that attracts all age categories: children, young people and the elderly. But now cinema culture is under threat. It is threatened by the government's substantial increase in VAT on the cinema ticket from 6 to 25 percent. The increase in VAT on the cinema ticket, together with other major tax increases implemented by the government, such as the doubling of the employer's fee for young people, is a blow to the Swedish cinema culture. It is a double blow for many cinemas, struggling with small resources – a double blow that means cinemas will be closed down. And it is cinemas mainly in small towns and rural areas that are most affected. Small private operators and community-run cinemas have no margins. The support that the government claims to give to the most affected cinemas, the so-called green cinemas, which are allowed to take the entire actual increase in VAT from 6 to 25 percent, does little to help. The fact that the government parties also want to contribute to the construction of complementary cinemas in some localities only further dilutes the future cinema death. In these communities, the cinema is often the cultural bearer of the locality and performs several functions, such as assembly hall, community yard, school and theatre stage, and as an intermediary of opera, concerts and ballet. These activities are threatened when the cinema disappears. A majority in the Riksdag has decided to announce that the Government will urgently investigate alternative funding for film policy on the basis of maintaining the current VAT rate on cinema tickets, which was 6 per cent at the time of the decision. Yet, almost a year after the Riksdag's decision, the government has not delivered an answer to this, as has the government not responded to the other six announcements concerning film policy that were decided on at the same time. With this, Mr President, I would like to endorse Amendment No 6 and also draw attention to the joint special opinion of the four alliance parties.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-563	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I would like to draw the House's attention to the specific opinion linked to paragraph 13 on film policy. I am, of course, behind the Liberals' reservation, but for time to come, I am only in favour of the joint alliance reservation 6 under paragraph 8. Mr President, I would like to As far as our joint alliance reservation is concerned, I agree entirely with what my colleague Per Lodenius said prior to the vote on sanctuary artists. We have exactly the same opinion in this part. Mr President, I would like to Instead, I would like to talk a little more about the scope of the report. Art and culture have their own value – I think everyone agrees quite well – and the policy for the area cannot be seen only in the context of cultural policy. This is where we split up. We Liberals believe that this needs to be seen in a broader perspective. It is about social security, copyright, business, tax policy and other areas. Access to diversity and artistic quality is the basis for good quality in art. And with a profession you can guarantee quality and diversity, which is why the conditions for cultural workers are also important. From the Liberals' side, we believe that part of making it easier for cultural workers is about creating the conditions for a cultural infrastructure, that is, a model of cultural cooperation there is incredibly important, not to say absolutely central. Surveys show that the majority of cultural creators live in metropolitan regions. Then the conditions for existence and operation throughout the country must be strengthened, improved and developed. The permanent institutions are in many ways very innovative. The work done there is therefore about cultural development and not just about being a food hook for full-time cultural creators. Quite few cultural workers have permanent jobs. It is therefore important to create the conditions for a new labour market for freelancers, which provides better opportunities to travel around the country, take jobs and move on if you want to. But in today's Cultural Sweden there is no social security. One thing that is also very difficult in this industry is skills development opportunities, which we take for granted in other industries. In addition, copyright, which is constantly being discussed, comes particularly in our digital days. Who really has the right to what? Mr President, I would like to Generally speaking, the economic opportunities of art and culture workers need to be strengthened, including through sponsorship, a way that we address in one of the motions in the report. We from the Liberals believe that the diversity of cultural life can be increased by making more cultural institutions as well as cultural workers even more independent from the state. This can be done through more cultural funding foundations, something that needs to be created. Private funding needs to be stimulated by increasing the right to deduct gifts, for example, and through favourable tax conditions for cultural sponsorship. Precise models for these parts, and perhaps for completely different parts, naturally need to be further investigated to ensure that they are accurate. Public funding should, of course, be provided, but then in forms that guarantee the independence of cultural life from political detail management. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say a few words about film policy and our specific opinion. On 15 June, the Riksdag decided on the government's film policy bill More films for more – a coherent film policy. There have been a number of comments on this, not least in the decision. Since then, the Government has on its table seven announcements from the Riksdag to take a position on. The government's handling of Parliament's announcements and comments on how it intends to deal with them has raised a lot of debate and received quite a lot of criticism over the past year. The Minister of Culture has stated that she does not see Parliament's announcements as a direct world upheaval, even though they go 180 degrees from the implemented policy. The Department of Culture has announced that the decision on a new film policy is solid. According to the Department, the investigation that this House wants to have been set up should be replaced by a follow-up to existing policies. The government's answer to the Riksdag's decision is that they should be taken care of. Let me be clear on the Liberal side! Parliament's decisions should not be taken care of, but be satisfied and fulfilled. It is ultimately a question of the government's respect for Parliament and the confidence in the government. The announcements from the chamber treatment are fixed– hence the specific opinion linked to that point. We point to this and underline that it is a fact.
i-4Ni7apHWWTcncoBSiHTyCa	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to endorse the Alliance's reservation No 6. Cultural well-being is one of three fundamental objectives of public activity, according to the Government Act 2 §. When it comes to many of those who create the culture itself, one can hardly speak of welfare for themselves. Culture creators' conditions leave much to be desired. For many years I have worked as a musician and cultural creator myself. For many years, I have worked with other things as a teacher to make my living financially. There's nothing wrong with that, and it's been stimulating. But that is what has been the opportunity for me to finance my life and that of my family. For an artist – let's take a visual artist – this is a common situation. Median income for visual artists is SEK 13 000 per month before tax, and this is about all income from both creation and the work you have next door. This compares with the median for the entire group of artists, SEK 18,200, or SEK 24,200 a month, as it is for the population as a whole. At the same time, interest in image and for m in Sweden is increasing. There are 7 million visits to art museums, galleries and art galleries every year. The proportion of Swedes who each year attend at least one art exhibition has increased every year between 2010 and 2014. Almost half of Sweden's population now attend an art exhibition sometime during the year. In spite of the great interest, the creators' remuneration is not associated. Mr President, I would like to What will be the consequences for democracy if the socio-economic background is crucial if one dares to choose the artistic profession? What does the economic and social insecurity of artists mean for society and diversity on the art scene? New figures from the Swedish Arts Council show how much organizers, mainly county museums, receive money through the cultural collaboration model, with which we all support, replace visual and design artists. The average remuneration for an exhibition in 2016, the year I have the figure from, was SEK 7,670. Often this is about months of work. All except those who produce the content for the exhibitions are paid for their working hours. This means that artists finance a large part of the art institutions' mission to offer the inhabitants a vital art scene, as it is called. Then you can ask yourself why you're doing it. What makes you continue or invest in it anyway? I think that it is primarily because the art and the work of art are created because you simply want to portray something, create something out of an inherent desire to create, preferably so that it comes to others. I know those who create but leave it with themselves and their closest companions or those closest to them. But usually you want to get others to take part in it. So it is not primarily about making money. Then I think art would suffer. At the same time, however, we Christian Democrats believe that one should not have to suffer for the creation of art to be regarded as belonging to a more self-sustaining activity, so to speak. Since Sweden wants a vital art scene in the long term – the development of society must, according to the goal, be characterized by artistic quality – it must simply be possible to make a living from the artistic activities. That is why we Christian Democrats want the following – review the following, perhaps I should say: We want to raise the display fee, which slips after the library allowance. Since 2010, it has fallen behind by 20 million, although there are as many practitioners and even though the socio-economic situation of artists has deteriorated. We want to make the 1% rule, which is about artistic design, a rule of thumb, not a law, as some others want to do. We want to encourage the municipal, state and private sectors to comply with the 1% rule, which means that 1% should go to general decoration in construction. We also want the MU agreement to be followed by the municipalities so that the artists are given better conditions. In the Västra Götaland region, where I mostly find myself, an extra 1 million has been invested in the MU agreement. You simply raise the remuneration to the artists so that it becomes a little more possible for them to live off their art. In Norway they have an artist's fund. You charge a 5% fee on older art to help newer art to work. This model of an artist's fund is something that I think we should at least review. Together with my colleagues Gunilla Carlsson, Bengt Eliasson and Niclas Malmberg, I visited Moderna Museet some time ago. We had quite an exciting experience. There was something called the Art to participate. It's pretty clever: the art of participating. It is about stories with roots in different cultures being made visible in our art institutions, which gives people an opportunity to feel represented and involved in their new country. The art of participation is a network project. Project leader Ola Öhlin spoke about the biggest challenges for this network project, which wants to make it easier for artists on the run to enter Swedish art life. Ola Öhlin said that the interest around the country is huge and that you have to find forms to permanence the effort so that you can provide support in more places. If stories with roots in different cultures are made visible in our art institutions, the art experience becomes an opportunity to feel represented and involved in a country. It also increases awareness and interest in the diversity that surrounds us. We became acquainted with the artist Reza Hazare. He said that through the project he managed to find friends that supported him, that he has been helped with studio and housing and that he has now also done a library exhibition and exhibited at Mångkulturt centrum. I would like to conclude by saying that in my party, the Christian Democrats, we are beginning to formulate a cultural policy which I hope will contribute in every possible way in this House in the future. It is based on the rather obvious conclusion that it should be possible to live and act as an artist.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-593	Mr President, I would like to We are debating motions from the general period of exercise about what we Members think is important. I support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations, Mr President. Cultural issues affect us all in some way. These cultural issues concern reading promotion, library issues, language issues, visual arts and culture creators' conditions – thus many important cultural issues. We have heard in the past many who have views on these issues and who are passionate about them. To take part in culture is important for us people, regardless of age, gender, skin colour, sexual orientation, place of birth, growing up conditions or disability. For all of us, culture is extremely important. Culture is music, visual art, reading books, visiting our libraries, taking part in history and understanding the times and the present, going to museums, meeting interesting people and being able to discuss with them. Well-being can be obtained through experiences and through culture. I am quite convinced that public health improves with a rich cultural life – we feel good about taking part in culture. Imagine enjoying – live – a piece of music that fills you with power or living into a theatre play and forgetting everyday life for a while and maybe get new perspectives on life. Imagine listening to music and floating away or going to the movies and watching movies. Imagine having the opportunity to walk around a museum or an exhibition and dream away without being ruined. Imagine being able to go to the local library to read the newspaper, borrow an interesting book, listen to a good seminar or take part in the story time – which my grandson is attending – with his little ones. Making this work as well as possible requires resources and a wise policy. We Social Democrats prioritise culture and work to constantly improve cultural life in Sweden, in a broad sense. I read liberal Christer Nylander's article in Svenska Dagbladet the other day and think he puts his finger on an important point when he writes that cultural policy should serve to strengthen the individual. He continues that cultural policy should strive for people to learn more about themselves, their personality, their ability, their prejudices, their context, their society, their time and their future. Christer Nylander also writes that the educational journey is the most beautiful and lasting journey a person can make. I think it was good. The educational journey may start with the education, which we heard about just now when Björn Wiechel gave a fantastic speech about how important the education is. For many of us, the educational journey begins in preschool or in school, with everything that belongs there, where the education begins to take shape. One of the most important things that exist is libraries – free, open libraries where all literate, knowledge-thirsty, curious people gather. When I go into Uppsala City Library, I am filled with faith in the future and hope. Languages from all corners of the world are whispered in groups in the room. A bunch of students sit and reason in English, although I see that they come from different parts of the world and have completely different native languages. At the library, people meet. Students, children, parents, pensioners and the unemployed meet there. There, knowledge-thirsty people meet who want to learn new knowledge and information and continue their educational journey. When I read the report with the motions from the Swedish Democrats, I am a bit afraid of the dark. I find it very serious and deeply sad to see the two reservations of the Swedish Democrats about libraries and reading. In their reservation to one of the motions, the Swedish Democrats writes: The library's activities should be citizens and the nation for the benefit of... We therefore believe that the library's accessibility and services for people without Swedish citizenship should be investigated. ..................................................... I'm saddened when I read this. I think it is strong, Mr President. How does this frightening scenario move forward with regard to the future of reading and the acquisition of knowledge? I promise that I will continue to fight and fight for the equal value of all people and for all people to have the same opportunities for their educational journey, no matter what you are. The educational journey is the most beautiful and lasting journey a person can make. Then, friends, we must make political decisions so that everyone in society has that opportunity. I wish I could!
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-613	Mr President, I would like to The report by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media is indeed as broad as its name suggests. The committee has handled motions involving a wide range of art types both from the perspective of creating better conditions for cultural creators and from the perspective of creating better accessibility to art and culture. The committee proposes that all motions be rejected. This must be interpreted as meaning that there is great satisfaction with how the government works with these issues. The Government is approved by the Committee on Culture as regards the conditions for cultural creators and the development of the arts. In my speech, I would like to focus on one area: literature, libraries and the conditions for authors. An important issue for the Environmental Party during the election campaign was to strengthen library compensation. It was something we put forward, among other things, in our election manifesto. This is an issue on which the government has worked well, and it has also been possible to raise library allowances step by step. With the latest agreement in place, we can now see that the library allowance during the term of office has been increased by more than 20%. At the same time, we know that we have had a bleak development in access to libraries for a very long time. Libraries have been closed down, especially in smaller towns. This is a trend that is finally broken. And it's not just that the trend is broken, but now we have another trend, namely that more and more libraries around the country face something called more open. It is an idea that originally comes from Denmark but is now gaining ground in more and more municipalities. The idea is simply based on the fact that, with the help of your library card, you can enter libraries even during times when there is no librarian or other staff in place. I had the privilege of participating in the opening of a new library in Heby, Uppsala County, a few weeks ago. It is a library that is complemented by more open. On the surface one might think that it is technological developments that have solved this with technology that allows borrowers and library visitors to enter even at times when there are no staff at the library. I would like to say that what makes this possible above all is trust – trust in borrowers and trust in library visitors when it comes to protecting and caring for their library even if you are there alone on an evening without a librarian being present. At the same time, trust is what we see just the opposite of in the Swedish Democrats' motion that the library's services should primarily be directed to Swedish citizens. It is a proposal that, if approved, would require that we have passport control and ID control in Swedish libraries. And that wouldn't even be enough. In order for the librarians to know and check whether a person who is not a Swedish citizen is a tourist or asylum seeker and therefore welcome or not to the library, extensive registers would be needed. Angelika Bengtsson says in her speech that this is not an issue that she wants to discuss here today. I can understand her – I can understand that she does not want to discuss this. Agneta Gille successfully takes up these perspectives, but Angelika Bengtsson chooses not to request a reply. I think that Angelika Bengtsson should now take the opportunity to explain what kind of problem the Swedish Democrats think they can solve with their proposal. What are the problems that the Swedish democrats think they can solve? Today, libraries are a place for integration. If you don't know Swedish and want to learn it, you can come to the library, read newspapers in Swedish and borrow books in easy-to-read Swedish. Shouldn't that be possible in the future? Agneta Gille mentioned fairytale moments that are in the libraries. A child who has just come to Sweden is welcome to the story time at the library and welcome to listen to Swedish, perhaps for the first time. The child is welcome to start learning Swedish and maybe even meet Swedish friends and make contacts. Shouldn't that be possible in the Swedish Democrats library? And the Swedish Democrats do not halt there. They also do not want libraries to prioritise books in languages other than Swedish and the national minority languages. My guess is that this is a proposal that is intended to strike at immigrant groups. But it also hits the Swedes who want to learn other languages. If I want to develop my English it is extremely good that I can go and borrow English books. If I want to start learning Spanish, it is amazing to have an opportunity to borrow Spanish books. But in Sweden the democrats' Sweden, one should obviously only stick to Swedish and not learn other languages. Paradoxically, the Swedish Democrats' proposal also beats those who have a different native language and who want to learn Swedish. The research clearly shows that children and young people who are also allowed to develop their mother tongue and read literature are easier to assimilate literature in Swedish and learn Swedish. What the Swedish Democrats achieve with their proposals is thus segregation and not integration. Now Angelika Bengtsson answers here: Is this really what the Swedish Democrats want to achieve? What is the problem The Swedish Democrats are trying to solve with their movements? I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-23ecd362474a0c7e-625	Mr President, I would like to I have had to replace our cultural political spokesman Rossana Dinamarca in this debate. Mr President, I would like to Many state cultural initiatives and a large part of state cultural policy are about culture for children and young people. That's very good. But it is also important and urgent to focus on the conditions that exist for professional culture makers. Annually, millions of visits are made to museums, art galleries, art associations and galleries. The Swedish art scene is central to a vital cultural life but also for society and democracy in general. Nevertheless, the conditions and conditions for artists to make a living from their artistic work are poor. Image and design artists are the professions with the lowest and most uncertain incomes in this country. The extension of the individual display allowance would be a step in the process of changing the conditions for artists by contributing to better working conditions and thus facilitating the dissemination of visual arts. We want to create an artist alliance for visual and design artists. It is important that professionally active cultural creators receive both a reasonable salary and have the same social benefits as other working people in society. Although the artist's conditions differ greatly from those of the self-employed or the permanently paid worker, the artist is assumed to be able to function in a system adapted either to the fixed monthly salary or to the structure of the small business. This often leads to the artist ending up outside the usual insurance systems with the right to unemployment benefit, pension and health insurance. A model for getting around the problem and improving freelancers' opportunities for livelihood and competence development between assignments is a third form of employment: the so-called theatre, music and dance alliances. Free-lance actors, dancers and musicians can have a basic position there, and when they receive other assignments, they take leave of absence from the Alliance. These alliances offer further training and assistance in carrying out assignments both to employees and to those who have not been able to be hired. This gives artists relative security and allows them to develop artistically and contribute to a richer cultural life for all. Mr President, I would like to The participation and exhibition agreement, the MU agreement, has given artists some better conditions, but the agreement is too rarely followed. What emerges when KRO/ KIF has looked at this is that when exhibition organizers replace according to a different remuneration model than the MU agreement male artists receive on average 52 percent more in remuneration than their female colleagues and more than twice as much as people with a different gender identity than male or female. It turns out that the organisers who apply the MU agreement and have reported how much they have paid in exhibition expenses and remuneration for working hours have given male artists an average of 10% more in remuneration than the female colleagues. Thus, the pay gap between women and men is significantly smaller in cases where the MU agreement is applied, but there is still a gender-based difference. The Left Party believes that all exhibition organisers who receive state subsidies should be forced to apply the MU agreement. Having said that, I am in favour of reservation 10.
