i-6f158ff505adbdca-5	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maj Karlsson, for the interpellation! Maj Karlsson has asked me what I intend to do to ensure that children who have parents who are denied support receive their needs. May Karlsson has also asked me what I intend to do to ensure that homeless children with income support have access to safe housing and do not have to live in hostels and the like for long periods of time. The Government has taken note of the reports of the Children's Ombudsman and Save the Children about how children are affected by eviction, overcrowding and homelessness. The fact that children are affected by this risk seriously endangers the child's growing-up conditions, health and development. Of course, for children in families who are forced to live on subsistence support, especially for long periods of time, the situation becomes even more stressful. The government has a fundamental desire to create conditions for more equal growing-up conditions for all children. Families with children with low economic standards need continued support, and the redistributive profile of family policy needs to be strengthened. Improving the situation of families with low economic standards is a priority. The government has efforts and long-term strategies in several areas, including family economic policies and labour market and education policies. The Government has also appointed a special investigator to review the Social Services Act, including from a preventive perspective. From the perspective of children's rights, it is important that parents with minors receive support to enter the labour market. The employment of parents has many positive effects on children. It improves the family's financial situation and has positive consequences in other areas as well, such as the possibility of stable housing. According to the Social Services Act, the best interests of children must be taken into account in actions concerning children. The best interests of the child may be determined on a case-by-case basis on the basis of an assessment of the circumstances of the individual case. It should be in accordance with the best interests of the child that the parent emerges from his or her dependence on assistance and takes a job. However, this also means that the child's situation should be taken into account when assessing whether there are good and acceptable reasons for the parent not to be at the disposal of the labour market. However, if social services decide to reject an aid application because the parent has not met the requirements for entitlement to support, social services shall ensure that, as a result of their ultimate responsibility, the family does not end up in an emergency situation. This may mean that social services need to take measures other than through the payment of supply aid. Social services must, according to the usual individual assessment, take care of the child's situation and assist the child and its parents with special efforts so that the child has the most stable life situation possible. I therefore assume that the child perspective is taken into account in matters relating to financial assistance. The Government has commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to carry out a national survey of the extent and nature of homelessness regarding the year 2017. The survey should, among other things, highlight the situation of homeless families with children. The mission has also included the development of a plan, in consultation with the relevant authorities, organisations and researchers, for how the mapping can be disseminated and used in the strategic work at different levels in the field of social services against homelessness, especially in the light of the refugee situation. The National Board of Health and Welfare has previously developed guidance for eviction prevention work that is now being updated. The county administrative boards have also been tasked with supporting and informing municipalities and other actors in 2016–2017 with the aim of facilitating entry to the housing market, combating homelessness and preventing eviction. The County Administrative Board of Skåne will submit a comprehensive final report in January 2018. Positively, the number of evictions has had a clear downward trend over the past 25 years. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is gratifying to note that housing construction is now also growing strongly. It provides the conditions for a more balanced housing market, which also benefits economically weaker groups.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-14	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking Åsa Regnér for her answer. That Save the Children's report shows that 5,000 children in our country do not have a home is an issue that really needs to be taken seriously. The report from Save the Children is horrifiable reading. It is about children who testify to a daily life filled with anxiety and despair. When some children argue about which book to read in the evening or that it is time to brush their teeth, other children stand with a backpack on their back and do not know where to wake up the next morning. It's really terrible. There are, of course, a number of reasons why we have children who grow up without a home, such as the extensive housing shortage. And of course, one's own work is a fundamental part of being able to live a good life and preventive work is crucial for people not to become vulnerable. That is why we are pleased that we, together with the government, have made major efforts in these areas. But social problems are often much more complicated than that. Being homeless is very rarely a choice or a result of a lack of motivation. On the other hand, there are a number of other reasons why people are being left homeless who require other measures than those I have presented now and those to which the City Council refers in its response. That is why I have to say that I am concerned about the Government's response when it comes to the issue of supply responsibility. Today, aid from social services is conditional. Housing support can be terminated at any time if the social services consider that one of the adults in the household has not been sufficiently active in the applicant or the applicant. It is enough for one of the parents to err in order for the whole family to be denied support for their housing. To fail may be to miss one's work experience for half a day or not to account for the housing you have applied for. Thus, children can lose their fundamental rights from one day to another. The Minister then believes that in cases where families with children are denied financial assistance and the children are thus deprived of their livelihood, social services must, as a result of their ultimate responsibility, ensure that the family does not end up in an emergency. The Minister therefore assumes that the child perspective is taken into account in matters relating to financial assistance – point. There's nothing more to it than that. This response worries me for a number of reasons. This involves, on the one hand, the supervision of county administrative boards and the follow-up by the National Board of Health and Welfare showing that the child perspective in general is not given sufficient attention in the management of financial assistance. On the one hand, the Minister only assumes that the children's perspective is taken into account, even though we point to an increase in the number of allowances, including for children. Above all, however, we have just received a report that 5 000 children live in homelessness. Such a breathtaking figure would mean to me personally, if I were a minister, that I did not expect anything. Instead, I would like to lift every stone possible to ensure that children are entitled to something as basic as a home and a livelihood. I am also a little perplexed that the City Council's response refers to the fact that there is a review of the Social Services Act. The only problem is that financial assistance is not at all part of that investigation. My questions therefore seem rather unanswered. Am I supposed to understand that the City Council does not intend to take any steps to ensure that children who have parents who are denied support receive their rights?
i-6f158ff505adbdca-24	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Karlsson, for the question and for the speech. These children are a vulnerable group if they do not receive adequate support. Other actors such as school and leisure activities are also included. I am pleased with the joint efforts we have made to strengthen the finances of families with children. Social services are not responsible for housing construction. They have the ultimate responsibility for people's situations in economic or social contexts, for example, so that no one falls outside. However, they are not responsible for ensuring that housing is available in general in a municipality. In reality, many social services have had to do so, at least through what is called the secondary housing market, where you try as much as you can to support people who find it difficult to find housing by doing so for them. That is why it is important that housing is built, and it is being built more than ever now. With regard to my answer on the Social Services Act, the reason why I mention it is that there is a clear ambition in the directives that support from social services and also social care for children and young people, where many families are involved, should be more preventive than today. One should also simplify the way of working, without compromising quality or legal certainty, and think of another way of making efforts before things have gone too far. That is why I think it is very relevant to include this in my answer. Because that's what I've been thinking. In addition, the children's perspective is important in the directives. As Mr Karlsson also knows, we will make the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law and we will make such a proposal very soon. Social services that I visit are really trying to support people and not least families who are in need and where children can get caught. I also see many children living in this situation, and not infrequently they take on a rather large adult responsibility because they have this whole logic in their head instead of thinking about things that we might rather have children thinking about. I'm not going to wait. I have taken all these measures to strengthen the situation of children and to support people so that they can enter the labour market. I will tighten up the assignments to social services if I see in a survey that women and men are treated differently when applying for support. It is important to me that women are also seen as people who should be at the disposal of the labour market. As we also make proposals to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law, we will carry out a knowledge boost that will include key authorities. There are many of them, and there will also be social services.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-31	Mr President, I would like to In one of the richest countries in the world, there are thousands of children who have no access to anything as basic as a home. Thousands of parents do not know which bed to lay their child in the next night, whether there is even a bed or whether the sleeping place they will be able to offer their children will be a staircase. It may sound as if I am taking it in, because it actually sounds completely unreal, and I am trying to find words to point to this debate. I really wish that was the case, but this is the brutal reality of thousands of children and parents in one of the richest countries in the world. That is why I am reacting quite strongly to the City Council's response that work is the way forward. Of course, work is a prerequisite for self-sufficiency. They know that we're talking about today more than anyone else. But for them it is rarely as simple as just taking a job. Then they would have done it a long time ago. I think we should be careful when we talk about those who are most affected in our society. Since it is the case today that a parent's mistakes can have the consequence that children have no home, I asked the Government what the reason is for the dependency requirement to take precedence over the right of individuals and, above all, children to support their livelihoods. I did not get an answer to that, but what I understand is the reason for it to be found in a ruling by the Government Court. It has been considered that a spouse's maintenance obligation with regard to the rest of the family may be regarded as primary in relation to the other family members' right to assistance under the Social Services Act. The Regeringsrätten found that the failure of the other spouse to be at the disposal of the labour market meant that the right of other family members to assistance was lost. This decision is now the basis for guidelines for both the National Board of Health and Welfare and most municipalities around the country. The decision has therefore had a significant impact on children's lives. It is really very strange because a law in this judgment is set above another law without it being stated that this should happen. It is, for me, totally incompatible with the requirement that the best interests of children should be taken into account in terms of financial assistance. For me, it is strange that there is a regulatory framework that can mean that a child does not get the right to his or her fundamental rights just because one of the parents has not been able to live up to the demands of social services and that it in turn is the result of a ruling from the Government Court that no one seems to have looked at. That is why I had very much hoped that I would receive a response from the Government that the legislation on this should be investigated, especially in view of the fact that we are going to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law. Now that the Government is aware of the circumstances surrounding the obligation to provide support, my question is whether the Government is prepared to review whether the legislation needs to be tightened up in order to strengthen children's rights.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-37	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I also review the Social Services Act from a child's perspective. Today, social services already have a responsibility to look after children's best interests and the needs of children, and they must also protect children. I am reviewing the Social Services Act, which has directives to ensure that children's best interests are taken into account in their work, and I will make the Convention on the Rights of the Child into law. It is in order to inculcate the importance of children's rights and what it actually means in different balances. Then I think, and I think we agree on that, that work and income for parents are important. It's just as important for dads as it is for moms. This will also require all possible support in order to be at the disposal of the labour market. This is why it is important for the government to make efforts, for example, in the area of adult education or other measures to get closer to the labour market. I want to promote children's rights. Children should not get caught up in situations like this, and so I know that social services are working on these issues.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-41	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for the debate and for the clarifications. This is an issue which, for a red-green government, should be rather high on the political agenda. I have to say that a report like Save the Children's leaves me sleepless. I can't stop thinking about what it would have been like for me not to be able to give my children a home. I get nauseous thinking about the consequences it may have for the children affected, and I am horrified by the thought that one day this could be about me. None of us know what life has to offer, and it is precisely with that insight that we have built a country where we shall be guaranteed fundamental rights. That's why it really scares me when we don't manage to offer children a permanent place to live. In Left Party Sweden, every kid should have their own home. No matter what class background your parents have or what fates will come upon you throughout life, we are obliged to do all we can to ensure that our children's fundamental rights are safeguarded. In addition to that statement by the Government, I would like the Government, after this debate, also to be prepared to review the legislation and consider how children can be entitled to their livelihoods and to housing. This part is not, of course, part of the investigation of the Social Services Act, as this also concerns financial assistance. I very much hope that the Government will consider looking at what can be done in relation to this judgment. I think the Government also wants to turn every stone around to make sure our children are safe.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-46	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Karlsson, for an urgent debate. I'll take with me what we've talked about here. The issues are high on the government's agenda. That is why we have started with the various measures that I have outlined. Social services are working hard on this, and in more and more municipalities there are fewer evictions that actually involve children. You have a child's perspective when you make different assessments. I will follow this matter closely, because it is really important.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-48	Mr President, I would like to Annika Qarlsson has asked me if any impact assessment has been made for the decision to move responsibility from authorities that currently have national assignments in the sub-target area of men's violence against women. Annika Qarlsson has also asked on what basis the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County receives a special solution where their activities may remain outside the new gender equality agency for three years. Finally, Annika Qarlsson asks what measures I intend to take to avoid skills losses when the final report of the organisation committee is due on 31 December 2017 and the agency's activities will be operational the following day. In the Government's letter Case, power and authority – feminist policy for an equal future, the Government describes the reasons for establishing a gender equality authority and the consequences. An important reason is that gender equality policy has been built over a long period of time on temporary initiatives with poor conditions for long-term societal change. The current organisation of gender equality policies is fragmented across a number of authorities, which means a lack of coordination and follow-up opportunities. The absence of an authority has reduced the impact of the efforts made and reduced the possibilities for lasting effects of the work. The main conclusion of the gender equality inquiry was that a permanent structure at national level is needed to ensure that political priorities have an impact on the governance of authorities and activities. The Swedish National Audit makes the assessment that the Government needs to strengthen the long-term sustainability of the implementation of gender equality policy in order for investments in time-limited actions and projects to be implemented effectively. The Government considers that a key consequence of establishing a gender equality authority is that it enables long-term and strategic work that produces lasting results and effects. Another consequence is that the work in the field of gender equality policy has a natural place of residence with the combined coordination and efficiency gains that this entails for existing assignments in this area that are transferred to the Agency. Several assignments are permanent as they are transferred to the gender equality authority and co-organised with other related tasks. This is expected to have several positive consequences. This means, in particular, better conditions for coordination and long-term work in the field of gender equality, with a permanent support structure for the relevant authorities, organisations and professionals. The report on the establishment of a gender equality authority, established in December 2016, shall prepare and implement the establishment of a gender equality authority. The assignment includes transferring assignments and tasks from other authorities. The investigator shall take the necessary measures to enable the Authority to start operations on 1 January 2018. In particular, it is clear from the commission of the investigation that knowledge and experience must be taken into account and that the work can be carried out without interruption. The investigation shall address these issues in close cooperation with the relevant authorities. The Government has also given, among other things, the County Administrative Board of Stockholm County and Uppsala University, where the National Centre for Women's Peace is located, special assignments to assist the investigator in the work. For these assignments too, the starting point is that knowledge and experience from specified national assignments should be taken into account and that the work should be able to be carried out without interruption. The government trusts that the investigation and the relevant authorities will perform their duties in the best possible way. When the government appointed the investigation into the establishment of a gender equality authority, the intention was to transfer assignments and tasks from five different authorities to the new authority, including the national mission on honor-related violence and repression at the County Administrative Board of Östergötland County. One consequence of the parliamentary treatment was that the national mission on honor-related violence and repression will continue as a temporary assignment until the end of 2020. However, like the Labour Market Committee, the Government believes that the mandate of the Equality Agency should also cover issues of honour-related violence and repression. The gender equality authority should focus in particular on overall national knowledge development and strategic, cross-cutting issues so that the agency's activities and the tasks carried out by the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County can complement each other. Towards the end of the mandate period, an evaluation should be carried out of the organisation of state action against honour-related violence and repression. In the light of the evaluation, a position should be taken on the form in which the activities should continue to be carried out.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-57	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its answer. The Government has received three relevant questions from me about the work of establishing a new equality authority. The answers were: No, the government has not carried out an impact assessment. Östergötland's special solution, although the government was involved in the negotiations, she takes her hands away and blames Parliament's handling. And the question of the loss of competence when businesses are to be deprived of their duties and transferred into something that is not even available today is referred to the investigator to solve. It is a mission that would probably have been deemed impossible if there had been an impact assessment. Not having a basis, not knowing what the consequences are and what measures are needed to minimise the loss is irresponsible. It is irresponsible to all those women and men who are victims of violence, trafficking, prostitution and even honour violence. We agree that gender equality work in Sweden needs more coherent governance and higher priority. However, the main reason for my criticism of the current proposal for a gender equality authority is that it risks being introduced at the expense of current activities with expertise, collaboration and dissemination structures as they are pulled up from scratch. Funding is also unclear. I therefore assume that it is the existing activities that will have to pay and finance the government's authority. Statskontoret is the government's own body. The mission is to ensure that we have an effective Swedish state administration. They were commissioned by the Government to make proposals on how strategic, clear and sustainable governance, organisation and responsibilities can be achieved in relation to the national missions of the above-mentioned authorities. In the absence of a government impact assessment, this report should be seen as an almost impact assessment on this issue. The criticism in the report against government plans is clear. You don't advise. It is estimated that there are several risks of changing organisations and sharing responsibilities, and that this can be costed by both reduced productivity and efficiency. The three activities affected by the government's investigators work with a few different issues. But in common with all three, they are not just working on gender issues. Their work concerns criminal acts, violence against both women and men, by women and men – although the majority of women are exposed. It is therefore not entirely obvious that these issues should be organised under a gender equality authority. The sub-goal on men's violence against women is much more complex than the other sub-goals and should have been dealt with in special order. We see a great danger that work with prostitution and human trafficking, honour-related violence and oppression and women's peace risks stopping for a long time, before the structure, competence and organisation are in place in the new authority. It takes time to build up expertise and to establish collaboration between authorities. Ask the businesses that are now uprooted! It is therefore of the utmost importance that the skills and forms of cooperation built up within these organisations should not be dismantled. We also know that the above-mentioned activities have a great deal of operational work with both support telephones, competence teams and regional coordinators. Through a transfer of operational work, both existing collaborations and knowledge are at risk of being lost. Creating an authority that risks destroying the gender equality work that has been built up over several years is irresponsible. Mantrat from ministries and ministries has been to strengthen and improve. What we are seeing now is destroying and moving – at all costs. I ask the question again because I do not think I got an answer. Why have a special solution for Östergötland but not for the others? What's the difference? And don't worry, Prime Minister! The risk of excellence and drive is an extremely important and sensitive area, as sub-objective four in terms of gender equality objectives.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-69	Mr President, I would like to I have signed up for the debate because I think this is an important issue. I believe that everyone involved in the debate is committed to increasing gender equality and to better work to prevent violence against women. However, when the government made a proposal for a gender equality authority, there were several of us who felt that there were no impact assessments. When the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Left Party and the Liberals settled on this authority, it was said that it should lead to better governance of gender equality policy. At the same time, we are reacting to breaking up the good work that exists in the country at various units to reduce men's violence against women. Yes, there has been a lot of project work, which was part of the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism. But what they were actually looking at was the Alliance's various initiatives. We spent a great deal of resources, over 1 billion, in various projects in the field of gender equality during our reign. Those were very good bets. Some will continue; some may not continue. We are, of course, opposed to this temporary project work. But the authorities that Annika Qarlsson has highlighted here are not temporary project activities. That is why we have reacted. There have also been a number of heavy referrals. In his referral, for example, Statskontoret says that this is not substantiated. Options have not been explored and the disadvantages identified in the proposal have not been highlighted. I think it is a problem from a quality and credibility perspective to combine an evaluation mission and a promotion mission. The concrete work done by activities such as NCK, National Centre for Women's Peace, Uppsala and the County Administrative Board in Östergötland and the County Administrative Board in Stockholm against honour-related violence, against prostitution and human trafficking and to reduce violence against women and rape is now being broken down. This suggests that there is more to placing people in an authority than that there is concrete work out there. We still have no response to these concerns. The Financial Control Agency, which represents an important consultation body, says that a new authority is clearly a more expensive option for the task and cannot deliver equal benefit. There is, of course, a need for more continuous monitoring and analysis. That is where we agree with the government. But the reason Annika Qarlsson has produced this interpellation is that we can't really see that it's worth breaking up the existing businesses, which work and which are not temporary projects. Long-term work is needed to reduce men's violence against women. It is very sad that we have not yet been able to get an answer from the government. I do not think that today's response to the interpellation has allayed this concern, unfortunately. My question is: is it really not possible to try to save these activities in a better way than is now being proposed?
i-6f158ff505adbdca-78	Mr President, I would like to Madam Minister! Annika Qarlsson and Désirée Pethrus have described in a very good way what concerns us. The decision on a gender equality authority has been taken. But there is now a phase of implementation that can be interpreted in a slightly different way. It is almost a question that I wonder about because competence and the results achieved are in danger of being destroyed, or at least damaged, in connection with the establishment of the new authority. In the decision taken by the Government on 9 March, Uppsala University was asked to prepare for some of the tasks belonging to NCK and the University to be transferred to the Equality Agency. The starting point for the transfer is that knowledge and experience are taken into account as far as possible and that the work can be carried out without interruption. ..................................................... After all, as far as possible, this expression is unbinding. It could be zero or 100. In the Government's response to Annika Qarlsson, it says: ..................................................... Does the Government have a higher ambition than the Government? The Government has deleted the government's expression, which is of course a good thing, as far as possible. But is there anything in the government's decision that leads to something that is not worth including?
i-6f158ff505adbdca-82	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Annika Qarlsson and others! It is a pleasure that this debate involves so many people. On the other hand, I note that the bourgeois parties, apart from the Liberals, have views on one of the six sub-goals of equality policy. In this area, there are opinions on one thing, an organisational issue. Gender equality policy is so much more. It is a democratic project, a project of freedom and a social change force that is much greater than that. Nevertheless, the activities we are talking about are extremely important. They are not set up by any higher power. I was there myself when we decided on the establishment of NCK in Uppsala. It took a lot of work to get to that business. There were not many promoters at the time who supported that work. It has also been a concern in the course of the journey, which certainly does not concern the staff of the NCK, but it has simply been about the construction. It is difficult to post a government assignment at universities and colleges. There has been a difficulty during the course of the work. Otherwise, those who work and fight at the National Centre for Women's Peace have made an excellent contribution. I am concerned that you are not concerned about the evaluations that have been made of the work of the Alliance. 2.1 billion of which half went to work against violence against women. In the documents available from the Swedish National Audit Office and the Gender Equality Investigation – the investigation that you yourself set up – it appears that these initiatives were often good, but they did not lead to a long-term change. They did not change the level of violence against women. Isn't that a problem for you? I have asked you before, but I have not received an answer to that question. These investigations are thorough and have gone through all the efforts you made. I find it regrettable that you have no point of view on the fact that the levels of violence against women did not fall with the efforts made. The investigations say that one reason for this was that the organization is all smiled for fragmented and difficult to control and that one cannot hold people to account. I think it's a huge problem. That is why I am referring to the investigation's proposal to set up an authority that tightens up governance and contributes to a coherent way of governing and monitoring gender equality policy. We have this in all other policy areas. The committee that is now working to ensure that the gender equality agency is formed, which was also welcomed by the women's movement and the gender equality movement in Sweden, has the task of looking at the transfer. Among other things, it is assessed that the telephone line available at NCK in Uppsala should remain. I think that is a correct assessment. It was part of the Committee's investigation directly. We do this because we want to strengthen the work against violence against women in Sweden and the entire work on gender equality. Unlike you, I see that the entire work on gender equality is moving forward with the six sub-objectives together. It's connected. It is about power, about jobs, about sharing the unpaid work and about the opportunity to get out of a bad relationship. In addition, knowledge of violence against women in general is involved. The agency is the right way to go, and we will work with it as well as possible.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-92	Mr President, I would like to Once again, the Government's analysis is that as the reporting rates increase, violence has not diminished. In fact, there is an increased knowledge and a tendency to report. It is important to create trust and create paths where you dare to report in a different way because treatment in healthcare has improved. There is also evidence that makes the care document what has happened. You don't wash off and not remove anything that can be the basis for complaints. If you think that everything will work out if you make investments in this area, it will be a bit strange. What I'm trying to describe is that we have to take advantage of what has been done and make sure to use it even better. Through the work that has been done, there is increased knowledge and awareness. There are developed methods that underpin healthcare professionals, prosecutors and the judiciary. After many years, they finally get to sit on the school bench. It is something that I have been calling for for a long time but which took a very long time. It is about creating greater confidence and creating training courses that also meet the wishes of these professions. This is what has happened in these years. They have worked up the knowledge and credibility that makes people sit down there. We are opposed to putting our feet aside for this and believe that we can start again from the beginning without it becoming a step of knowledge. We, too, have seen the need for a more coordinated structure in order to get more out of the money invested in this area. Every woman subjected to violence worries us all. However, this sub-objective does not only affect vulnerable women. It is about women and men who are exposed and women and men who are exposed. And when it comes to violence of honour, it becomes even more complicated because it concerns whole family groups. It is therefore not entirely self-evident that the area only benefits from being placed under the gender equality authority, because this is not just an issue of equality, but also of other things. The government was concerned about the rush. The National Women's Centre was put in the lake in 1994 by a bourgeois government. I myself was Chairman of the Women's Federation when further assignments came during the time when we were in government and to which Åsa Regnér refers. I do not know if any political party was against this, even if it sounds like it today. Under the alliance government, we gave additional national missions to this authority. So I get a little confused when the government tries to make it that we don't care. What would be interesting to consider is how we could have used the existing authorities working on the issues and linked this with the creation of the new agency. As I said, there are five other sub-objectives, which initially require quite a lot of resources and effort to get started and get on track and work on this. It would have been enough to use this and connect the others over time instead of doing the way the government now chooses to do. The feet of these activities are being put away. I still have no answer as to why it will be a special solution for Östergötland. I have also not heard whether the Government is concerned about the skill gap that is likely to result from the change.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-100	Mr President, I would like to We are in fact agreed that we need to have a better long-term perspective and follow-up of gender equality work. That is something that I too have pushed in different directions, because I think this is important. But what many of us find hard to understand is why we need to break down well-functioning activities that exist in the area of gender equality. That is our question. We think there must be other models. There is no impact assessment of this. In addition, several authorities have been negative. I mentioned earlier the Swedish Financial Control Agency, but this also applies to Statskontoret. Statskontoret proposes a completely different model. It would be interesting to hear a little about what the Government thinks about their proposal to establish a delegation for gender equality studies that should carry out the task of initiating research on gender equality and also have an evaluation mission. Then you can retain various activities that work with gender equality and that exist today, but at the same time you have a delegation that coordinates and sees what needs to be done. Ultimately, it is then always the government that is responsible for coordinating gender equality efforts. One could work with IFAU, which evaluates various authorities and works. So the government should have tried to coordinate and evaluate in a different way. We agree on what needs to be done. But the question is how to do this.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-105	Mr President, I would like to The Crime Prevention Council has shown, unlike what the Government says, that some important figures in the area of violence against women are actually going down. Of course, we should not get caught up in this, because each figure is too high. However, I do not believe that old figures should be taken as a starting point to justify this equality authority. I did not hear an answer to my question whether the Government has a higher ambition than the Government as a whole. The interpellation response does not include as much as possible.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-107	Mr President, I would like to I am a gender equality minister and have worked with gender equality policy throughout my adult life in Sweden, in other countries and in international organisations. I have a very high ambition when it comes to gender equality. That's why I don't want to just stand there and stomp. It is not I who say that the work was too fragmented and that the objective of violence against women was not affected by the efforts of the alliance period. This is what the Swedish National Audit Office and the Gender Equality Investigation say. So that is not my personal opinion. Of course, I am the first to speed up when numbers get better, and especially when people's lives get better. That is what we are talking about here. The evidence that you have not yet touched upon, even though you yourself commissioned the gender equality inquiry, says very clearly that there were good ambitions even in bourgeois times and that good things were started but the results failed. Taxpayers' money did not get the result originally intended when it was invested. I do not think this is taking responsibility. To draw conclusions from this, however, is to take responsibility. And I do now. No, we're not starting over. It is natural to change and work on a structure when working hard with gender equality work, which we in Sweden have done. The fact that it looks as it does today is not because Gud has decided it, but these are various solutions that have been tried to do in the meantime to strengthen the work. Now we are taking another step to get a comprehensive grip on gender equality policy so that we can steer, follow up and hold to account. This is important, but you couldn't do it in your time. None of you have commented on that. I think it is important that this can be done. In addition, all authorities must of course continue to work on gender equality policy. I would also like to say that I was not in the government when NCK was formed, but I was involved in supporting the government and the Ministry of Justice. That is why I was close to this principle. I also wonder a little about some of these activities, such as the County Administrative Board in Östergötland. It was not permanent during your time in power. Why didn't you, if you think it's as important as you're saying now? I also think it is important, and we make it permanent. And what goes into the gender equality agency will be permanent work, and the gender equality policy objectives and their governance are interrelated. Désirée Pethrus proposes a delegation. First I am accused of starting from the beginning, then I get proposals for a gender equality delegation. When the Women's Peace Bill came, a gender equality delegation was established. Then this was left because it was not effective. I don't want to start over. We must professionalise and develop our work. We have already done so and have taken an enormous number of steps since then. We have to move forward.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-116	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for a lively debate. Although we do not fully share the idea of what the solution should be like, there is still an ambition among all the participants in the debate that it must be a more effective and better way of working on the issues. It's a little unfair to describe it as if we don't care about that part. Of course we do. What we see is that it could have been done better and that instead one could have taken advantage of the knowledge that exists in a completely different way from what one now chooses to do. This was about the interpellation. It is a small part of a large gender equality effort. As far as responsibility in our time in government is concerned, the alliance government, unlike the previous government, actually made great efforts in this area. We saw that it is extremely important and essential to move the positions forward. If it had been so simple that we could have bought ourselves away from the troubles of an unequal society, we would have been a bit on the way with the investments we made. What became clear from the work we did was that there was no structure for the work. This was something that lay with the old government before we took office. The fact that there was no structure or organisation to ensure that gender equality initiatives were fully implemented was not new. We didn't remove it. One of the big pieces of the alliance effort was to create a better structure and sustainability in the projects we do. I think it is almost rude to say that nothing happened in those years. We can see that issues were raised in the care of people about violence, who were asked in a completely different way than before when it did not happen at all. There is an opportunity to document what is happening and happening, and we ask for this in a different way than we did before.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-121	Mr President, I would like to This is engaging. As regards health care issues, this was, among other things, what NCK was going to do – that is why it was set up from the beginning. We will make use of the knowledge and expertise that exists in Sweden and that often arises in the field of gender equality because talented, competent and urgent people suggest something. There are various activities, organisations and eventually institutions that they are trying to support. This is good, and it will continue. I very much hope so, and we shall continue to support it in various ways. For me, it is quite natural to have a gender equality authority, just as we have authorities in all other policy areas that we think are important, that are changing in society and that we want to be able to manage and follow up. It is a necessary step to professionalise this area too. I have said repeatedly that many good activities were set in motion during the time of the Alliance, but that you did not have any governance for eight years, I do not think you can blame the former Social Democratic Government for. This is about the fact that when your policy was followed up, not least because you yourself took the initiative, it was said: Yes, good things were set in motion in the area of violence, but it did not have an impact on the objective of equality policy. I think this is important. Why else do we have targets? I'll take it to myself. It was also said that the money invested did not mean that results were achieved in relation to the target. For me, this plays a part– I will like my own work as well. I think this is the right way. I will be anxious to ensure that we gather the knowledge and experience we have. This should be a work of high quality. We're gonna improve people's lives.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-128	Mr President, I would like to Jenny Petersson has asked me if I believe that the government's regulation letter to Försäkringskassan has any part in the fact that the costs of state assistance compensation amounted to 21 511 000, which is 4.8 billion SEK or 18.3 percent lower than budgeted. It is true that Jenny Petersson points out that the expenditure on assistance compensation decreased in 2016 compared to 2015 and was lower than the funds allocated. Proposals for the assistance allowance for 2016 were submitted already in September 2015. At that time, the number of hours granted was expected to continue to increase in the same way as since the beginning of the reform and the number of users was expected to remain stable. There are several factors affecting the development of the cost of assistance compensation. I have pointed out in interpellations earlier this year that two precedents from the Supreme Administrative Court, which relate to supervision as basic needs and so-called self-care as basic needs, have had an impact in Försäkringskassan's application of the legislation in 2016. As a result, the average number of patients with assistance compensation decreased by about 11⁄2 per cent in 2016 and the rate of increase in the number of hours granted was broken and only marginal. However, the number of hours granted per user is still increasing. The decrease in expenditure caused by the fewer users in 2016 was in line with the increase in expenditure that occurred when the hour schedule was raised. These are public figures. The reduction in expenditure between 2015 and 2016 is essentially due to the fact that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency introduced the postpaid payment of assistance compensation from 1 October 2016. The change means that the assistance allowance is paid in arrears for more than 90 per cent of the persons eligible for assistance. Others have continued to pay advances. During the transition from the advance payment to the post-payment payment, a payment slip occurred during the month of October and November. At that time, only a fraction of what is normally paid to those who continue to have an advance payment was paid. During the past year, the issue of the Social Insurance Agency's objective of assistance compensation has been debated extensively. The background to the goal statement in Försäkringskassan's regulatory letter is that several reports in recent years have pointed to quality deficiencies in assistance compensation. The Government's ambition is that the Social Insurance Agency's work with the assistance allowance should be characterised by high quality and legal certainty so that the right person receives the right compensation and that the decisions should be equivalent throughout the country. It should also be clear that the assistance allowance should be used as it is intended by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency having a good control to counteract over-use and criminal use with a special focus on the increasing hourly development. The annual report of Försäkringskassan for 2016 states that the quality of the management has developed positively. In view of the objective, the Social Insurance Agency has made a number of efforts to improve the quality of its management. These include the clarification of the application of the law, the improvement of uniformity and an increase in the quality of the proceedings. However, the result of the assistance allowance is not deemed satisfactory by the Authority. This assessment is based mainly on shortcomings in the area of correct and uniform application of law. The Social Insurance Agency must comply with the law. The Social Insurance Agency shall also, in accordance with its official mandate, have a quality and legal certainty application of the legislation and ensure that the right person receives the right compensation. In this context, it is important to emphasise that it is the courts and the Social Insurance Agency that apply and interpret the legislation. The Government's mission is to ensure that the Authority meets its authority mandate and has a quality and legal certainty application of existing legislation. Finally, I would like to stress that it is important to safeguard personal assistance and its opportunities to create participation in society. It is precisely for this reason that it is also important that the tax resources allocated to finance the assistance allowance are used as intended and that the right person receives the compensation to which they are entitled.
i-TfEHkYgDNUd2iP8dRRs7pj	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Åsa Regnér! But you didn't answer my question. Your answer gives an insight into the fact that there is so much to do when it comes to Försäkringskassan and assistance compensation to make things better. I have asked the question whether the changes in the government's regulatory letter to the Social Insurance Agency have made the outcome 18.3 percent lower than budgeted for the cost of state assistance compensation. One part of the truth is, as the Minister said, postpaid payments, but another part is the impact of the government's regulatory letter to the Social Insurance Agency. The Financial Statement 2016 clearly stated that the Authority would contribute to breaking the trend in the number of hours within the assistance allowance. We have looked at the previous figures, but if you also look at the new figures for this year you can see that Försäkringskassan has written down its forecast for this year as well. I will come to that in my next speech. It is not the first time that the government or the Minister has not put precise facts on the table or distort the facts as regards the development of personal assistance. I think that fraud in assistance is unacceptable – there should not be – but the scope has also been a discussion that we see slightly differently. This was made clear in a statement made in connection with Parliament's special debate on personal assistance in October 2016. Out of 30 billion, 10% are used for advertising and sponsorship," said the Minister at the time. When it comes to personal assistance, it is sad that we have a Minister for Equal Opportunities who does not want equality to cover everyone. It is a political issue of the utmost importance. We have the regulatory letter that has affected. We have an LSS investigation that has left its mark. More than 20 years have passed since the reform was carried out. It is regrettable that the reform of freedom as it once was is beginning to be eroded. The law on support and service for certain disabled people, LSS, has meant a huge increase in choice, influence and better quality of life for many people with disabilities. It has also meant freedom for many relatives. Of course there is parental responsibility. But many relatives have also been able to go back to work. This applies not only to those who have received the support as a user, but also to relatives who have been able to go back to their daily lives and what it means to work and to sleep, eat and so on. It is regrettable that equality does not include everyone.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-145	Mr President, I would like to We are now seeing a historic change in the application of the LSS Rights Act. Of course a lot of people are worried. So will we. We hear and read of many tragic human fates as a result of the change. What we are reacting to is that the government is trying to slip away from the responsibility for reducing the number of decisions and the number of hours. The rejections are numerous and have major consequences for many people. The government set up an investigation a year ago where one of the goals was to cut assistance compensation, and that is a sharp cut. It is Försäkringskassan that decides and has decided on support in the form of personal assistance. If the government believes that the hours are increasing too much and the costs are running out, the question can be asked: Does the government have too little control of its authority, Försäkringskassan? In the regulation letter to Försäkringskassan 2016, the Government writes that it will break the development of the number of hours within assistance. In the resolution letter to Försäkringskassan 2017, this has changed to the fact that Försäkringskassan should pay particular attention to the development of the number of assistance hours granted. It shall also carry out analyses of various kinds. It is clear that it is a way for a government to point with its whole hand how it wants an authority to work. I think there has been a final report in February for 2016. Of course it would have been interesting to hear how the authority and the government view it. One can speculate on what Social Democrats would have said if it had been an alliance government that had proposed those wordings in their regulatory letters to the Social Insurance Fund. We know the importance of a regulatory letter and how it works. It's a way of telling how you want the agency to work. I can understand, and I think many more can understand, that given the cost development that has been for many years and has continued every year, there may be reason to review this. There may certainly be reasons for the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to question whether it has carried out sufficiently thorough investigations into who receives the support, who will carry out the support, etc., and how the assistance companies have been. There it feels like there's been a lot of breaks. What I am reacting to and perhaps why I came into the debate is that the Government has only pointed out the judgments that have come as a reason for the reductions. She has not really mentioned anything about the government's own demands on the agency to cut the number of hours. You get a little upset about, and the government itself seems upset about, the result. People have protested. The government has gone out and said: this is not good, and we need to look at this. Sounds like you're talking with a double tongue. It's gonna be very weird. What is also worrying is that the municipalities are now beginning to wonder how the costs will be. The small municipalities are also beginning to wonder: Will we have the strength to provide people with the right support for the needs they actually have? There are consequences in many places. It would be interesting to perhaps get some little reflection on it and if the government has some overall picture of how it will be and how it is.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-153	Mr President, I would like to That it becomes right and proper is an issue that is very close to the heart of many of us. The Government and I have discussed before that we want fair terms and that this should be consistent. Today there have been two speeches in the debate. One is from Försäkringskassan, where you look at how many refusals have been made within the assistance compensation and how we can understand the recent increase. It may have to be a little bit of a background in order to be able to look at this with costs. In 2012, 59 per cent of all applications were rejected, compared with 79 per cent in 2016. I want to add a little bit to what Katarina Brännström said and the thought about what happens if you pull down on one side. Does the cost come up on any other page? I refer to the report that has come from Bengt Westerberg. He clearly writes in the report that it is his own words and nothing else and that there is no party politics behind it. He claims that without prior political debate and parliamentary decisions, the government has encouraged a number of administrative decisions that risked undermining the LSS operation and that this has been done, among other things, in the regulation letter. He has an idea if it is a form of stealth settlement that is now taking place in full transparency. I would like the Minister's point of view on that.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-157	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your commitment to this important issue! It would be a shame to say that something is happening in secret in view of all the debates, questions and Question Time we have had on these questions. No, I don't think it happens in secret. We have also reported what we have done and our instructions. Among other things, it seems to me that this is the subject of the debate, so that it happens in secret, I cannot agree with you. In this debate, all kinds of personal assistance issues have now come up, and some are quite far from the actual interpellation. But I'll do what I can to answer. This concerns first of all the questions of what happened in the year in which post-payments were introduced. It was done to equate the payments with most others as the Social Insurance Agency does and to have control over the use of the money for what it was intended. As Jenny Petersson says, the government allocated just over SEK 26 billion in 2016 to this. However, proposals for assistance compensation for 2016 were already made in September of the previous year. There are two main reasons why the actual costs in 2016 were reduced. First of all, the forecast did not include the introduction of post-payments. The fact that they did is estimated at about 4 billion of the difference. The second reason is that at the beginning of 2016 there was a so-called negative transfer amount of almost 700 million. This is going to be very technical. However, as I am accused of all sorts of things here, I will be able to explain in detail what this is all about. Since the entire discrepancy between the allocated funds and the funds spent in 2016 amounted to 4.8 billion, 100 million cannot be seen. I don't know exactly what that $100 million is. I assume, of course, that Försäkringskassan follows the regulatory letter regarding legal certainty and checking that the money goes to the right things and the right people and that it keeps an even quality throughout the country. I cannot account for exactly every penny of the 100 million, but I can account for 4.7 out of 4.8 billion. As far as the other questions are concerned, there will be judgments which do not have much to do with this because the case law appears to have changed, particularly in the last year. This is due to judgments that have followed disputes that have arisen, where the effect of indicative judgments seems to have been, among other things, that small children, in relation to the concept of self-care in these judgments, have not received personal assistance when they have applied for it. This is an issue in itself, and there this government – unlike the previous government – has taken the initiative to review these judges to see how reality has become and whether it is that the judges have taken reality away from the intention of the law. I am very concerned about the intention of the law, and I look forward to soon getting various assignments for me to see if we need to change the law. When it comes to Bengt Westerberg, he has carried out a number of assignments on this theme for the organization Företagarna. I am happy to comment on more about cheating and what we are doing to ensure in different ways that money is spent on what it was intended.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-166	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again for your answer! I have therefore received an answer to my question. My original question was whether the Government makes the assessment that the Government's regulatory letter to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has any part in the fact that the cost of state assistance compensation has been reduced by 18.3 percent. It is therefore 18.3% lower than budgeted. No, that's the answer. The government's letter of regulation has nothing to do with this. Then thank you for that answer. But Minister Åsa Regnér talks a lot about the judges and the background to the judges. I find it regrettable that newborns are forced to stay in the hospital because the Social Insurance Agency does not believe that probe feeding or taking care of oxygen tubes should be included in the basis of calculation for personal assistance. I find that regrettable in a state like Sweden. There are other examples. One is Johanna, 34 years old, who has lived a fantastic life thanks to her assistants. She became a cohabitor, and because of that, she had the number of hours counted down to relieve cohabitation. Another is Tobias, who dreams nightmares about getting a white envelope with green text on it from Försäkringskassan with notice of reduced hours or refusal. This is happening in Sweden today. The Government of Åsa Regnér is responsible. The government is responsible, and if the government considers that the law is being interpreted in an unreasonable way, it should take the initiative to amend it. My question is therefore: does the government think that the law is being interpreted in an unreasonable way, and should it be initiated to change it – not to set up a lot of investigations but to change the law? I have received an answer to my first question that the letter from the government has nothing to do with this, although I do not agree with the Minister in substance.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-174	Mr President, I would like to You're amazed when you listen to the Council of State. It sounds like the post-payments are the cause. We know that the number of decisions and hours have been reduced. Then the late payments cannot be the only reason why it has been reduced. I cannot believe that the government would have no responsibility for reducing the number of people who have been supported under the LSS and the number of hours. In that case, it is a very weak government, I must say. We usually say we have a weak government, but I didn't think it was weak in this area too. Now this interpellation is about the importance of the regulations themselves, and I do not think that the Government is really responding to that. If the wording that I presented in my previous speech was intended for cheating companies and criminals, we would all have thought it was really good. It goes without saying that no one should have money that is not entitled to money and that the right people should receive support. But it could well have been expressed in a better way than reducing the number of hours and, it says explicitly, abrogating the development of the number of hours. It doesn't feel like it's the criminals you're after in that particular case. You also want an account of the reasons for rejection, and you have to follow up the number of people. Nor does it feel like the government is writing in the way that one might think would have been reasonable in that case. Of course a lot of people are worried. I find it a little disturbing that only circumstances other than the purpose of the government are blamed in the regulatory letters when we now see and hear everything that is happening in connection with the reductions in support for these people, which in many cases are very vulnerable and end up in very difficult situations.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-179	Mr President, I would like to Now there are again quite a few things at once, but that is a big question. With regard to hourly development, for those who had or already have personal assistance, the number of hours has decreased by about 11⁄2 per cent in the last year compared to previous years. So it is for those who have personal assistance. What is a huge difference applies to those who do not receive personal assistance, i.e. the granting. This group includes to a large extent children under five years of age or up to five years of age who, for example – not only but for example – need help with probe feeding, which has to do with the implementation of one of these judges. Now, of course, I am in debate with legislators, and legislators must surely want authorities to use the results of judgments and implement them. I have to assume that's the case. I must also assume that legislators think that they should have a good basis if they are to change the law. But I said I've taken the initiative to review these judges. If it turns out that you need to change the law to get back to the intentions of the law, I will be prepared to do so. But I need a basis to see it. Some of you can say, "Oh, you're just investigating! Yes, I stand for the fact that I need to know more than media information about the judges and the effects of them. It is about people's lives, and it is bad to write sloppy legislative proposals that may not meet the goal that at least I have, that is, that the intentions of the law should be upheld. What I am concerned about is that the funds for personal assistance should be used for the people who are entitled to personal assistance and that money should not be used for other things. With regard to the people who have personal assistance, whom I spoke about at the beginning of this speech, hourly development has been somewhat slowed down, but the number of hours continues to increase. I assume, as I said earlier, that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency uses the government's regulatory letter and ensures that the efforts decided upon really go to people who are entitled to the efforts. This was already an issue that various parties saw during the previous government that something had to be done about. For example, Maria Larsson said in 2011 that it is a fact – which cannot be overlooked – that the cost of assistance compensation has increased significantly since its introduction. Then she told me how much they have increased. Then she said, "In the autumn of 2010, there have also been examples of fraud, irregularities and over-use of assistance payments. Furthermore, she writes what she wants to do about it. Ulf Kristersson said in 2012:"The more such a business we engage in..."– and here he was referring to Försäkringskassan's audit business–...the fewer will think it is worth trying to cheat. But I think we have to expect that there are always people who systematically want to abuse benefits, and that is something we should go very far to get to. ..................................................... He said as late as 2015 that he wants to cooperate on slowing down the costs of assistance compensation, for example. This is an important issue to cooperate on.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-189	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again, Åsa Regnér, for your answer! I know you're passionate about these issues, but I think it's going the wrong way when it comes to assistance payments. We've got verdicts going in the wrong direction. We've got the base. So my question is: How much evidence do you need? How many sentences do you need to act? When are you ready to act? If the government thinks that the law is being interpreted in an unreasonable way, it can be initiated to change it, and I stand by it. So the question is: When does Minister Åsa think she has a basis to act? As I said, equality must include everyone. LSS has meant considerable freedom – increased freedom of choice, influence and better quality of life – for people with severe disabilities, as well as for their relatives. I still argue that the government's regulation letter to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, which states that the agency should contribute to breaking the number of hours, cannot be interpreted as anything other than a direct order for stricter assessments.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-193	Mr President, I would like to With my quotes, I wanted to show that the previous government saw exactly the same things that we and also had intentions to ensure that the funds were used for what they were intended for. The difference was that the previous government didn't do anything. It had no impact on development. I have addressed this issue in various ways: a long-term study on LSS, quality regulation letters, the right effort to the right people – not cheating – and several different assignments, including on the judges and on the role of companies, which we did not get into very much here. I'll give you an answer when I think I have a basis. On 1 September, I will have a basis on what happens to those who receive rejection or who do not grant personal assistance and how to ensure that they tell municipalities that this decision has been taken. This is already often done by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, but it may be necessary to strengthen the legislation in this regard. I also want to know what other efforts these people are getting. In the autumn, I will also receive evidence that gives a better picture of the impact of the judges, for example on the border between the Act on Support and Service and Health Care. Unlike Jenny Petersson, neither I, the department nor other experts believe that we have a complete picture of what is actually happening. Of course, if people actually need medical care, they should get it. Personal assistants should not perform medical care. We need to know what effects the judges have had and what the different people's lives look like in order to change the law if necessary. If so, I am prepared to do so.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-198	Mr President, I would like to Gunnar Hedberg has asked me how I intend to ensure that the activities of the National Centre for Women's Peace, Uppsala University, are not destroyed by the transfer to the new gender equality authority. The transfer of certain parts of the mandate on men's violence against women to an equality authority will not result in the destruction of the activities of the National Centre for Women's Peace. The background to establishing a gender equality authority is that gender equality policy has been built over a long period of time on temporary initiatives with poor conditions for long-term societal change. The current organisation of gender equality policy is fragmented across a number of authorities, which means a lack of coordination and follow-up. The absence of an authority has reduced the impact of the efforts made and reduced the possibilities for lasting effects of the work. Gathering and permanent strategicly important and related tasks in the field of gender equality policy in an authority means significant synergies and efficiency gains. It improves the conditions for achieving gender equality policy objectives, in particular with regard to the interim objective of ending men's violence against women. In December 2016, the Government appointed a special investigator to prepare and implement the creation of a gender equality agency. The assignment includes transferring assignments and tasks from four other authorities, including Uppsala University. The investigator shall take the necessary measures to enable the Authority to start operations on 1 January 2018. In particular, it is clear from the commission of the investigation that knowledge and experience must be taken into account and that the work can be carried out without interruption. The investigation shall address these issues in close cooperation with the relevant authorities. In the case of Uppsala University, the investigator will also consider whether responsibility for the national support telephone should be transferred to the gender equality authority. The Government has been informed that the investigation makes the assessment that the national support telephone should remain at Uppsala University. The Government has previously decided that the parts of Uppsala University's assignments relating to the development and dissemination of evidence-based knowledge and information about men's violence against women and the compilation of current research in the field should be transferred to the gender equality authority and continued as a permanent task. Uppsala University will continue to be responsible for the task of collaborating with Uppsala University Hospital in matters related to clinical activities and related research and analysing the need for new research in the field. This means that essential parts of the mission about men's violence against women remain at Uppsala University. The National Centre for Women's Peace will thus continue to play a central role in combating men's violence against women. The Government has also given Uppsala University, where the National Centre for Women's Peace is located, a special mission to prepare for the transfer of these parts of the mission on men's violence against women. Also for this assignment is the starting point for the development of knowledge and experience from specified national assignments to be taken into account and for the work to be carried out without interruption. The Government trusts that the investigation and Uppsala University will perform their duties in the best way possible.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-202	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer to the interpellation! It is good that the Government now seems to have deepened the issue, unlike what was the case in the previous debates we have had in the media. I feel that this answer is more relevant to the questions than the answers I have received before. I thank you for that. We are discussing in general that important activities must not be harmed or destroyed by the creation of the new authority. Statskontoret, that is, the government's body to look at its own organisation, has directly warned against making a change. It is therefore not without reason that we feel a great deal of concern, specifically for the very important activities of the National Centre for Women's Peace, for women who are victims of violence. There is an obvious risk of losing skills when moving. We can only look at the current issues. For example, Fastighetsmäklarinspektionen is now moving, and 14 of 18 are not coming. We have seen before what it was like when the Patent and Registration Office moved to Söderhamn. Then one out of 80 followed. This is very serious in terms of the skills, knowledge and so on that one must build on and not collapse. For more than 20 years this has been built up. It is a very important development work when it comes to the treatment of violent women by healthcare services. It started in Uppsala at NCK and has since been translated nationally. As new knowledge and new conditions have emerged, routines and trainings have been revised and further developed. The various parts of the Uppsala model – now I'm taking the opportunity to submit a publication about it – show that it's about knowledge about violence, about routines when it comes to asking questions, about how you can handle the answers, about continuously documenting and following up and about professional collaboration. Together, this provides a basis for the proper treatment of women who are victims of violence and for the support that staff need. All these parts are thus linked together as a fabric, and they give power to the purpose of helping violent women. The support phone, which receives over 30 000 calls per year, seems to be saved with the Government's response. That is, of course, a very good measure. But what more does the government intend to do to ensure that the remaining parts of the fabric are not destroyed?
i-6f158ff505adbdca-209	Mr President, I would like to I also support this debate. It is an important part of gender equality policy, albeit not everything. I say this in order to prevent the criticism of the Government on this point. The National Centre for Women's Peace at Uppsala University and Akademiska Hospital is Sweden's national knowledge and resource centre for questions about men's violence against women, honour-related violence and oppression, and violence in same-sex relationships. The Government's mission includes compiling, developing and disseminating knowledge about violence and providing support to women who are victims of violence. That's how it's been. This dual mission – combining research and education with daily contact with women exposed to violence – I see as a crucial part of NCK's development. There is no equivalent national organisation in any other country in the world. It is precisely this that we are close to developing activities, where we also meet the people and women who are victims of violence. It runs Sweden's national support phone Kvinnofridslinjen, which started in 2007. If I read the Government's answer correctly, it will remain. It is staffed with nurses and sociologists 24 hours a day, every day of the year, and receives between 80 and 90 calls a day. By chance, I happen to have a pen from there with me. I can tell you who is watching and listening here and now that the number there is 020-50 50 50. The calls are not visible on your bill, and you have the opportunity to get free support and help in matters. It can be about yourself, friends or work colleagues. Through belonging to the NCK and the University, the Kvinnofridslinjen and the patient clinic have access to further education at university level and expert knowledge about current research and national developments in the field. And through the patient visits and discussions to the Kvinnofridslinjen, NCK gets a unique insight into the situation of violent women in Sweden today as well as important knowledge of what issues they have and what kind of support they are asking for. In the same way, the Centre gains important knowledge and experience through its daily contacts with professionals from the judiciary, health care, municipalities and other authorities participating in the training courses of the CNK. All in all, this provides a solid basis for developing the business and being a forerunner in the work to improve the situation of violent women and their children. NCK's knowledge bank is a website that a lot of people are searching for to find relevant research, working methods or just what applies in the law. So it's a very broad base. It brings together presentations of researchers and their projects, facts and subject guides on violence and publications from authorities. It has been around for more than five years and has been continuously expanded. If I read the answer correctly, it will be transferred to the Equality Agency. NCK also does other things – that's a big part. It has over 20 years of experience in training on men's violence against women. 15 years ago the first basic course at university level was started. In total, around a hundred external training activities were carried out in 2015. These are university courses – other programmes at Uppsala University and other universities in the country. But they also participate in the training of other authorities. They are very active in this regard. When I read the Government's answer, I don't really know where the education should go, whether they are meant to move or not. Will what is described today as a national mission disappear? What I want to describe with this picture is the unity of NCK's mission. They are about that they have clinical activities but also research and development and how much those parts fertilize each other. It will not be possible to bring it into a new environment in a new place. It would be unfortunate if we did not take care of this particular environment.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-219	Mr President, the interpellant and the other participant in the debate! First of all, this issue is not part of the government's ambitions to create government jobs throughout Sweden. If you have such effects, that is a good thing, but we are now talking about the organisation and governance of professional work on gender equality policy. That is the purpose of creating a gender equality authority and of partly moving activities that are now about implementing gender equality policy. The Government's ambition is to strengthen the gender equality policy area. What is important to us is that we reach the goal of ending men's violence against women. Under the previous bourgeois government, more than 1 billion were invested in this area. That's good. A number of initiatives were taken which were also good. But it had no effect on the objective of gender equality policy. It was too divided. There were too many actors who had responsibilities. Finally, one could not see a collective responsibility. The goal was not affected despite efforts and money. I think it is serious, and it tells me that we need to work differently. That is why I have taken up the proposal that the bourgeois government's inquiry into gender equality policy clearly put forward. This was even in the title, because it was so sure that a gender equality authority was needed to professionalise this work. What we are talking about now is improving people's lives. Gender equality policy is designed to create gender equality. This means changing and improving people's lives. A woman and her child, who avoid living in relationships with violence or threats of violence, can really tell the difference. I want it to be different. I want us to take advantage of the good efforts and knowledge that we have in Sweden today. But we need to do it in a new way. We need to pool efforts and knowledge in order to have an impact on the objective of gender equality policy. For the parties of the Alliance, apart from the Liberals, it is clearly good enough that it has no effect on the objective of equality policy in this area. It's not for me. I want violence against women to be reduced and stopped. That is why we have these ambitions. I would like to say one more thing. I am talking about all the objectives of gender equality policy. The six gender equality policy objectives are very important to me. They're connected, and they reinforce each other. Putting the whole area of gender equality policy in one authority means that we have a greater consensus on the whole area of gender equality policy. These parts interact. It is about the power of women, as well as men, in society. It is about the distribution of unpaid work. It is about both women and men having good jobs and being able to live on their incomes. It is about the cessation of violence against women. Another effect of bringing together gender equality policies with regard to the interim objective of violence against women is to bring in the approach to preventing violence even more clearly. Only if we prevent more effectively will we also have an impact on the objective of gender equality policy. These are my ambitions. Therefore, I do not believe in just continuing as we have always done. We need to follow advice to govern in a more professional and clear way in order to change people's lives.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-226	Mr President, I would like to The NCK is in an environment which, for example, the Minister of Finance just a week ago in this House said is a fantastic research centre. She said that it is a world-class university, and there is a tremendously interesting research that also benefits society. It's just as true as it's said. NCK uniquely translates research-based knowledge into society. It is not only a question of direct assistance to the vulnerable individuals, but also of disseminating research results and knowledge that are constantly being built up and in support of many social institutions and activities. These are police officers, prosecutors, judges, health professionals and social workers. Everywhere, NCK's work will benefit the victims of violence. At a seminar a few weeks ago, the Uppsala model was presented, which I had the pleasure of handing over a copy of to the Government. Among other things, there was an instructional film about what can be done to approach older people who are suspected of being victims of violence. It was a small example of how this comprehensive and complex picture is constantly evolving. It's a practical but probably so important knowledge. What is happening is not that everything that moves is brought together to the new gender equality agency. We have already been informed that the support phone will remain. Of course, it interacts much with the training and knowledge gathering that takes place at NCK. The clinical activity remains at Akademiska Hospital together with NCK. There will then be a fragmentation of the knowledge environment, i.e. the fantastic research, development and education environment that exists around and in Uppsala University. How does the division of activities benefit women?
i-6f158ff505adbdca-232	Mr President, I would like to The National Centre for Women's Peace has done very good work and continues to do so in relation to the work against violence against women. I have said several times today that I myself was extremely involved at the time when the National Centre for Women's Peace was established. This also applied to the national telephone line. I know how much work was behind organizing the telephone line, manning it and professionalizing it. The ambition is not to stay and do more of the same when there are so clear indications and indications that gender equality policy in relation to violence against women is not achieving its objectives. We have to draw some conclusion from that. The efforts made have not had a positive impact on the objective of ending violence against women. It has not even decreased during the time measured when the Gender Equality Investigation and the Swedish National Audit Office presented their reports with proposals for better governance. They felt that the funds invested in these areas did not have the intended effect. It must matter what taxpayers' money is spent on. It is serious if you do not achieve effects in people's lives. I want this to be a more professional policy area in terms of governance, follow-up and accountability. It is in all other policy areas that we consider important to change society and where our common resources play a role. Dissemination of knowledge and systematic follow-up is precisely what the authority should do. Preventive work is incredibly important. There are several reports that say that what has been done at least in Sweden – and it is probably all equally guilty of – is to invest in preventive work, that is, to ensure that the battle is not dealt out or that the rape does not happen. We have not done this sufficiently systematically. There are some good examples of how to work with this, but there is no way to tie up good examples so that there is more of a national job. There are no ways to disseminate that kind of experience effectively. I want to achieve this by setting up the Authority and by taking decisions on a number of tasks that go in that direction – and I have done so too. We are endeavouring, not least the Committee, to make the best possible use of the knowledge available in many ways. My ambition is to strengthen the work against violence against women and strengthen the entire work on gender equality so that we move towards the gender equality policy objectives. Otherwise, it's no use having them. The reason why it is important is that they improve people's lives. I am not satisfied if we do not see such an improvement.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-240	Mr President, I would like to I think we all share the ambition that we must move in the right direction. That is why I am a little concerned when the Government does not take any account of what Statskontoret says at all. Nevertheless, it is the special agency for organising government activities. What it says about how this works best is not taken into account by the Government. I would like to thank the Government for the debate. It is good that the support phone is secured, but there are other important activities, such as education and the knowledge bank, that may be destroyed unless the corresponding measures that the Government has taken so far are implemented. If the web of knowledge, care, follow-up, professional collaboration and routines for how to ask questions and take care of the answers are not left and are torn apart, there will inevitably be damage. We Moderates promise to monitor this issue intensively. Violent women's interests always take precedence over the adventurous organisation of an authority.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-244	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the debate. It is very good if the Moderates take up the issue. There are not many other proposals on gender equality policy. As far as the NCK mission is concerned, I am the first to say that the Centre is doing a good job. The work tasks that the Centre has and has had have really helped to strengthen the general gender equality policy work in Sweden in relation to violence against women. The work needs to be scaled up and we need to bring together the many different efforts that are being made. That is a clear conclusion. It emerges from the evaluation you made of your gender equality policy and the funds you invested, and it is also shown in the Swedish National Audit Office's report that what is missing is a coherent way of governing and monitoring gender equality policy. That area must at some point be counted as any other policy area. It's just as important.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-247	Mr President, I would like to Jenny Petersson has asked me if I still stand by my statement in SVT about the break-in figures in Laholm. On March 10, I visited the police area of Halland. During the visit, positive findings and good work in vulnerable areas were presented. It is gratifying to hear about police areas that have managed to maintain positive findings during such a far-reaching change as the reorganisation of the Police Authority has meant. It is, of course, the active work of the police, both preventive and intervention, that has led to the positive developments on the burglary side. The establishment of the Police Authority has created the conditions for governing and leading the police as a coherent authority, which is very valuable. However, the government has reacted to declining results in criminal investigation activities over a period of years. There is no clear explanation as to why the falling results are due. It is likely that the development is based on several interrelated factors linked both to the recent reform of the Police Authority and to changes in both crime and the rest of the world. In a number of counties, however, developments have reversed, and Halland is one of them. As far as Laholm is concerned, this change was already started before the reorganisation, and progress has continued, which is to be welcomed.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-253	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Anders Ygeman visited the part of Sweden that I represent, Halland County. Also police area Halland needs higher salaries and more colleagues, but this is a completely different debate. I raised this question because I bounced to when Anders Ygeman, after the visit on 10 March, was sitting in SVT's morning couch and stated that the declining burglaries in Laholm were a result of the police reorganisation. But just as Anders Ygeman says, the statistics show that the Government statement was wrong. I asked a written question and was not given a very specific answer, if I may say so. I chose to proceed with an interpellation. I interpret Anders Ygeman's reply today as saying that he made a wrong statement in SVT's morning couch.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-257	Madam President, I would like If my statement in SVT's morning couch could be interpreted as something other than that the development in Laholm has been reversed by the police in Laholm and that this turn began before the big reorganisation was wrong, then I apologise for that. In this respect, I give Jenny Petersson the right answer. I hope, however, that we can be pleased with the results in Laholm, which, in all honesty, must also be attributed to the positive work of the municipality and other actors, that developments there continue and that developments throughout Halland have actually reversed. There may be reason to believe that it is partly thanks to the new organisation, which both my party and Jenny Petersson are behind.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-259	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. It was good that we boned this out so that there were no misunderstandings. As Anders Ygeman says, I am also pleased that this crime is being reduced. The municipality, organisations, volunteers and other activities that work crime prevention should have great praise for this work, and the police, who make daily contributions, should have all the credit. However, I believe that the police need higher salaries and more colleagues, but I will have to come back to that. Once again, I thank you for your reply and for abstaining from my last speech.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-263	Madam President, I would like Ann-Britt Ann-Britt has asked me how I intend to act to ensure the police presence and the safety and security of people in Dalarna County. One of the starting points of the new Police Authority is a police closer to the citizens. This means that local work should be the basis of the agency's activities, with increased presence and accessibility based on local conditions and needs. However, the political authority's broad mandate often involves difficult balances in terms of resource allocation between different urgent tasks and geographical areas. It is the responsibility of the Political Authority to allocate and organise the resources within it in the manner deemed appropriate. It is, of course, urgent that the Police Authority honours its commitments at any time of the year. An action by the government has been designed to allow for an extension of the human resources within the agency. The Government has proposed and announced additions to the Swedish Police Authority for a total of just over SEK 2.7 billion during the period 2017 – 2020. I will continue to monitor closely how the Police Authority uses its resource reinforcements and how it works to ensure that the intentions of the reform are fulfilled.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-269	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Home Affairs for his answer. I note in my reply that the Minister points out that local work should be the basis of the operation, with increased presence and availability. On May 15, the police in Dalarna announced that due to the strained economy they are forced to close or severely limit the opening hours of almost all police stations in the county – this simply cannot afford to hire summer Vikings. 17 of 19 police stations close completely from the beginning of June until the end of August. It will be a tough summer for the police in Dalarna. In Malung, the Social Democratic Council and former Member of Parliament Hans Unander have reacted and said in a statement: Opening hours are already severely limited today. The situation is unsustainable and unacceptable. Given that we have several major events with many visitors during the summer, we believe that the police's decision is wrong. He continued: The police station in Malung is said to have some basic staffing even during the summer, but the police authority has nevertheless chosen to lock the doors to the police reception. We believe that a police presence in connection with the events and open police receptions is necessary in order to answer general questions or receive reports if something happens, such as assault, sexual abuse or parking injuries. Dalarna is a tourist county and Sweden's second largest tourist destination. We have a number of major events that attract tens of thousands of visitors, ranging from Midsummer celebrations around Siljan to the dance band week in Malung with 50,000 visitors and summer Vasalopps week. And then the police take a vacation. In his reply, the Minister stressed the importance of local work and visibility. My question must then be: How well does the Minister think this applies to reality when most police stations in Dalarna County are closed during the summer?
i-6f158ff505adbdca-276	Madam President, I would like Let me first put this question into context! We are now spending more money on the police than ever. We invest considerably more money on the police than the moderate-led government did when it ruled Sweden. There are therefore more resources for the police in general and more resources for the police in Dalarna. It is the police themselves who choose how to allocate these resources. I suspect that the police in Dalarna have chosen to focus on having as many police officers out there as possible instead of having police stations open during the summer. If it is right or wrong, one can of course discuss it, but I have respect for the fact that it is the authority itself that makes that decision, and I think the citizens of Dalarna are more valiant to see and meet policemen than to be able to go to a police station. We also see a shift among citizens. More and more people are doing their police business, that is, making police reports, by phone or computer. Fewer and fewer people are going to the police stations' receptions. Then it is also natural that we focus on resources and use more resources out there among citizens to create security and less to maintain police stations and receptions.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-279	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Home Affairs for these comments, which I fully understand. But I can continue to give examples of the influx of visitors to the various parts of the county. Dalarna is a county with a total resident population of about 277,000. During the summer months about 200 000 people visit the county. There are very many more than there are in several other parts of Sweden. It is unfortunate from a citizen's perspective with closed offices," says a municipal police officer. Unfortunately, the government's additional contributions to the police in the coming years will not help to improve the condition in Dalarna from now until schools close. Already several of the police stations are closed. On the police website you can read about the police's targets. The goal of the police is to reduce crime and increase security in society. 中 Closer to the citizens, more accessible and together, we are leading the law enforcement work for security, the rule of law and democracy. One of the strategic objectives is security in the local community. Among the long-term objectives is the first point: How does the Minister think these goals fit in with the reality of Dalarna this very summer?
i-6f158ff505adbdca-282	Madam President, I would like We've paid $800 million to the police just this year. This means that the police in Dalarna and other parts of the country have more resources to move around with this summer. Then there are other efforts on the part of the police. Regardless of the size of the budget, the Authority will always have to set priorities. If the police are to be available where the citizens are and the citizens are increasingly looking for the police over the phone and the internet, it is also where the police must increasingly be available to cope with their accessibility. The parts of the police's activities that are about being available at a police station behind a plexiglas pane at certain times will then be smaller. I hope that as much as possible of the police's resources can be invested in being out there among the citizens. This means that large resources should not be locked on opening hours at police stations in as many places as possible. I believe that this is a natural consequence of people's new patterns of behaviour, just as we see in a number of other activities and industries. Then policemen are people, too. This means that the police will need a vacation, just like any other citizen. There's only one specific number of police officers. We don't have any cops on the shelf that we can pull up. Just as little as in bourgeois times do we have any layers of policemen to take off now during the Social Democratic period. As a result, the situation is strained when police officers have their summer vacation. This has been the case in previous years, and so will this year. But I assume that the police in Dalarna, as in all other places, are doing their utmost to meet the citizens' need for security and an accessible police officer.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-286	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank the Minister for Home Affairs. I can only regret that this is the way it is. Of course, I will not regret the fact that the police want a vacation, but I regret that the police's resources are not enough for increased openness. Visibility is very important in all parts of Sweden, even in a small county like Dalarna. The issue of accessibility by means other than having the police station to go to can also be an age issue. The citizens of the county are concerned, and the police themselves are concerned that the resources are not enough. This is regrettable. Hopefully we will manage in the county during this summer, but we must continue to hope that it will be better in the future. Right now, this summer, however, it is not money and contributions to the police that help, but now we are standing there with 17 of 19 police stations unattended.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-288	Madam President, I would like I note that Ann-Britt Ann-Britt and I have the same hopes for a police officer present in people's daily lives and that we feel the same desire for the police to be available even in the summer, but that we also see the limitations that it entails that police officers also need to be free to fight for order and security for the citizens. I thank Mrs Ann-Britt for the interpellation debate.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-290	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to review the taxation of electric buses and, if so, when. A fossil-free vehicle fleet is a priority for the government. Electric buses have great potential to reduce both climate emissions and emissions of air pollutants and noise. They facilitate the densification of housing in large cities and release biofuels to trucks and other heavy vehicles that are more difficult to electrify. In order to promote the introduction of electric buses into the market, the Government has introduced a market introduction aid in the form of an electric bus premium during 2016 – 2019. When it comes to the introduction of electric buses, it is not just about the vehicle but about a whole system where infrastructure and bus are connected. An important measure taken by the government is investment aid for climate investments, which contributes to increasing the rate of conversion to a fossil-free vehicle fleet. These may include investments in infrastructure for charging electric vehicles. The electricity bus premium and investment aid for climate investments support new technologies. Electric buses are a good example of new technologies that are expensive to invest in, but cheap to use. The cost of an electric bus is significantly lower than that of vehicles powered by fossil fuels. It is therefore considered by the Government that targeted investment aid to subsidise the purchase of the more expensive technology is a more appropriate instrument than a reduced electricity tax. The government has chosen to invest in stimulating investments in electric buses. A transition to electrified transport is a priority for the government, and we follow the issue continuously.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-294	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Today, trains and other rail transport, as well as shipping and air transport, are exempt from taxation on fuels. My interpellation is about electric buses and trains powered by electricity having different conditions. There is no competition neutrality in this issue. It is good that the government is giving targeted investment aid to electric buses, namely the electricity bus premium. Actually, I don't know if it's had much effect. Perhaps the Minister of Finance can answer that. What I hear from the industry is that it has not done so, but it is possible that there are other figures. However, it forgets from the government to see the whole. The electricity to be used by the buses is taxed. Then public transport will not be competitively neutral. In the case of trains on track, electricity is not taxed. But electricity from the electric bus is taxed. We're trying to get more people to go collectively. We also want to work more with climate change. Then it is so difficult to understand why electricity for trains and buses is not taxed in the same way, or that taxation is completely removed. A reduced electricity price undoubtedly has an effect that brings forward the cut-off point for when an investment in an electric bus pays off. It's about millions of dollars when you're buying an electric bus. Investment aid may be useful there. But then it is also a question of getting the competition neutrality that is not present today between iron wheels on track and rubber wheels on the road, which also drives climate smart. I don't think I'm getting a real answer to my question in the interpellation. Why should electricity for buses be taxed more than electricity for rail services? Why is this happening? Why does the same not apply to both of these means of transport? Today's tax legislation therefore means that you do not have to pay taxes on electricity for example for public transport vehicles, such as trains, metros and trams. But the person who invests in having electric buses instead has to pay taxes on electricity. I have written an interpellation on this in the past, and the Minister for Finance and I have had such a debate in the past. I think it was two years ago. At the time, the Minister for Finance's reply argued that this was not possible according to the European Commission and a regulatory framework that exists within the EU. In my next speech, I will mention that Swedish Public Transport and Swedish Bus companies have had a correspondence with the European Commissioner responsible for this issue. He writes in his reply that there is no obstacle from the EU to making this change. I have another question for the Minister for Finance: what is the tax revenue on electricity for these buses? Nevertheless, it must be a rather negligible tax revenue for the State, while there will be a large cost for the owner of the buses. I find it very difficult to find the arguments for there to be such different conditions for the buses powered by electricity and for the trains powered by electricity. It is stated in tax legislation and also in the EU directive that trolleybuses are something that is subsidised and that is exempt from tax. Then it becomes very strange, because I do not think that trolleybuses exist in so many places in Sweden. I don't know any place. On the other hand, with regard to the new technology of electric buses, the legislation and its application should be followed, so that these electric buses are not taxed either.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-308	Madam President, I would like We have made the assessment that electric buses should be stimulated. We think it's important. We need to reset public transport. But the government has made the assessment that given that it is a very large investment cost to buy an electric bus that it is most effective with investment aid. As regards the possibility of exemption of electricity for electric buses, EU law provides for the possibility of exempting rail and other rail services from taxation. However, there is not the same exception for bus services. If this is true for trolleybuses, it is possible that trolleybuses are seen as trams. That may explain why there is no problem. If you want an exemption for bus and coach services, you need to obtain an authorisation from the European Commission. As we understand it, it is primarily possible to do so for local bus services and not for regional bus services. In that case, there would be a reduction in the taxation of electricity for buses but not of electricity for electric cars. It is clear that this could pose some control problems for the Tax Agency. But, as I said, given that the big cost is to buy in the buses, we have made the assessment that in this situation we use the money best by giving a premium when purchasing these buses.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-312	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for an important debate. Sweden's bus companies and Swedish Public Transport have repeatedly turned to the Government for a uniform taxation of electricity for electric public transport. They have calculated, among other things, that with an annual distance of 5 000 km for a bus, the additional cost is approximately 20 000 SEK per year with an electric bus because of electricity tax, compared with rail traffic. What is interesting is that these professional associations wrote to the European Commission that a directive of 2003, Article 15, provides for a restructuring of the Community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity, which states: Without prejudice to other Community provisions, Member States may, under the supervision of the tax authorities, apply full or partial exemptions or reductions in the following cases.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-315	Like the Minister for Finance, I believe that we are talking about trams. There are a lot of trolleybuses in Europe. But in Sweden we don't. This directive is 14 years old. When it was written there were few electric buses in Europe. The answer given by Commissioner Moscovici on 7 April this year shows that he shares the view on the importance of incentives for green energy and the transition to clean public transport. He writes in his reply that the Commission is well aware that the current 2003 directive is outdated and contains a number of restrictions that prevent fair taxation of electricity used in electric vehicles. He says that the Commission is currently carrying out an evaluation of the Energy Taxation Directive and that it will also carefully analyse the issue of introducing a specific provision on electricity used in electric vehicles. But he also writes: in the short term, I would like to mention that, despite the many limitations of the directive, the Council may authorise a Member State to introduce additional tax exemptions or reductions for energy products and electricity with special political considerations in addition to those already provided for in the directive. I would like a comment on that. This Commissioner is opening up here because it should actually be possible for Sweden to apply for tax exemptions for electricity for buses and coaches as well. I don't know if it's local bus traffic. However, as things stand today, electric buses are mainly used in local traffic. That is why we should at least start with it. I think that would be important. I do not really know what the government's position is. If the government really wants to develop these green alternatives in public transport, there should also be a fight to get this through in Sweden. Then we could get more people to buy electric buses and thus protect the environment.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-323	Madam President, I would like I appreciate the fact that there is a Moderate involved in the green climate transition. That is not always the characteristic of Moderates. This is very much appreciated. What I am saying is that we in the government have made the assessment that the most effective thing here and now is to invest in investment aid for the electric buses, but also to expand the electricity infrastructure that is necessary for us to be able to switch to an electric-powered vehicle fleet. Then it is about expanding charging poles, partly for ordinary electric cars and partly for electric buses. Here you will find the Climate Tree, the Government's investment programme to transform Sweden into a climate-smarter society. It will be very important for us to be able to switch public transport as well. Unfortunately, the Moderates want to cut back on this particular program. This infrastructure is needed in order to have electric buses. It may be that it would be possible to apply for a tax reduction from the EU. It may be a process that takes several years. But even if you get a permit there are the control problems, whether electricity in buses and electricity in cars should be taxed in different ways but maybe refueled, so to speak, in the same place. It is clear that this leads to some control problems that also have to be considered. So far, we have made the assessment that investing in investment aid and infrastructure development is the most effective.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-326	Madam President, I would like The big issue in my interpellation is really about competitiveness neutrality. The market currently in place for public transport, thanks to the new Public Transport Act 2012, makes it very difficult for a bus operator, in particular, who actually wants to contribute to climate change. It would be very interesting to know how much the investment aid has given to bus operators who have bought electric buses and taken part of the electricity bus premium from the government. It hasn't taken off. We will never get a real boost on investment in electric buses if we are also to fight against and contend with unfair competition. I wonder if the Minister for Finance knows how much tax revenue is for the few electric buses that currently exist. How much is there on the revenue side of the government? It must be quite negligible as it looks today. I understand that there can be control problems there if you are to distinguish cars and buses when it comes to taxation, but it must be possible to solve in some way.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-329	Madam President, I would like Tax revenue is obviously negligible, for so many electric buses we unfortunately do not have in Sweden yet. However, I hope that in the future there will be a very large tax loss, because I want us to have a lot of electric buses in Sweden – preferably made by Swedish manufacturers. As far as competition neutrality is concerned, it is important to say that it is cheap to drive an electric bus in relation to driving vehicles that run on fossil fuels. Thus, once the investment aid has been granted, there is a possibility of good competitiveness with an electric bus. I appreciate the commitment of Lotta Finstorp, and I appreciate that we share the desire to ensure that we can switch our public transport to become completely green in the future. In my opinion, climate change is an important part of building the infrastructure that makes it possible, and I hope, of course, that the Moderates will change and stop wanting to cut back on this important support for conversion. It is something that gives investment and jobs all over Sweden, while at the same time turning into a climate-smart society.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-332	Madam President, I would like Lotta Johnsson Fornarve has asked me whether I am going to take any initiatives to abolish the current social security number system in favour of a gender neutral and whether I am prepared to take measures to enable gender-disaggregated statistics regardless of personal identity numbers. There is a requirement for all individual-based statistics to be presented broken down by gender. Removing the data on gender could be detrimental to statistics and research. It is also important to bear in mind that any change in the design of the personal identification number has a major economic impact on the vast majority of actors in society and that the overall consequences are difficult to understand. Having said that, I would also like to mention several of the steps the government has taken in the work on equal rights and opportunities for LGBT people, including by modernising the so-called gender law, particularly on the basis of the individual's right to define his or her gender. The government will initiate two new legislative proposals: a law on the amendment of legal sex and a law on the licensing of certain interventions in the genitals and removal of the genital glands. This means distinguishing the legal process of changing personal identity numbers from the medical process, which will also speed up the process of changing legal sex. A medical diagnosis should no longer be a prerequisite for getting a new legal gender established in the form of a changed personal identity number. The Government has also commissioned a special investigator to identify, among other things, the obstacles that exist in society to transgender people's opportunities to live in accordance with their gender identity and, if necessary, propose measures to address any shortcomings. Against this background, I am not prepared today to take a position on any new review of the personal identity number system or measures to enable gender-disaggregated statistics independent of personal identity numbers.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-337	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer to my interpellation on the possibility of introducing gender-neutral social security numbers, Minister. Every Swede, as everyone knows, has a social security number that is used for identification. The first six digits are the date of birth, followed by a serial number where the third digit indicates the person's sex – even figure for woman and odd for man. For many of us, this is not a problem, but it can cause problems for transgender people. Changing legal or gender correction may take a long time, while the person in question naturally wants to be identified as the legal sex he considers to belong to. When a licence has to be presented or a social security number is given, the third digit in the serial number always reveals the legal sex to which a person belongs. RFSU testifies to the fact that the gender marking in identity documents means that especially young transgender people avoid social activities where they may need to legitimise themselves. They also avoid studying at a higher level or looking for a job while waiting for the now lengthy process of changing legal sex to take place and they get the right numbers in the personal identity number. It is clear that today's personal identity number system causes a great deal of suffering, especially for young transgender people. The Left Party therefore considers that the personal identity number system should be amended to include gender-neutral social security numbers without sex identification in the order number. Then we get away from the problems and difficulties it can cause when the personal identity number does not correspond to a person's gender identity or expression. We welcome the government's desire to simplify legislation on sex correction, but it does not help those who want to define themselves as non-binary – those who neither define themselves as male nor female. The Government also says in its reply that there is a requirement for all individual-based statistics to be presented broken down by gender and that removing the data on gender could be detrimental to statistics and research. Of course, we agree that gender-neutral social security numbers must also ensure that it is possible to create gender-disaggregated statistics, which is an important instrument for visibility, such as discrimination, exposure to crime, etc. Gender-disaggregated statistics should, of course, also include persons who neither identify themselves as men nor women, as is rarely the case today. A gender-neutral social security number has many advantages. Apart from not pointing out a person's sex, the personal identity number will not need to be changed, for example, after a person has changed their legal gender. In addition, the risk of end-of-life numbers is reduced, which is today a real risk. Should it not be interesting, in the context to which I refer, at least to explore the possibility of introducing gender-neutral social security numbers, thus facilitating many transgender people in society and reducing their suffering?
i-6f158ff505adbdca-343	Madam President, I would like This is an important issue raised by Lotta Johnsson Fornarve, and it is a deeply important issue for many of the individuals affected by this. I can really see that it can prevent some activities if it takes a long time to change personal identity numbers. Therefore, the government has worked specifically on this issue – so that we can distinguish between a medical change and a change of personal identity number, so that you can get a social security number that fits your identity more quickly. It's a matter the government's been working on as a matter of urgency. What is happening now is that we have an investigator who is just looking at identifying the obstacles that exist for transgender people in society, and I would like to await what that investigation comes up with before I take further action. I think it's important to listen to what the investigation concludes. Then it is also about how best we use the resources we have to support these people. Doing if the personal numbers would be very costly for society as a whole, and I'm not sure – you really have to think about that – if what best helps these people is to put resources there. Instead, what helps best may be better support, not least in adolescence when you may become clear about your identity. That people get really good support in school, through school health care and curators there, may be a better way to use our resources. However, this is a discussion I think is important to take, so that we use our common resources in the very best way to support these people to live their lives.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-347	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the clarification. I think it is good that the Minister takes these issues very seriously. These issues are important to this group, which is very vulnerable. RFSL and RFSU are pushing hard on the issue of the introduction of gender-neutral social security numbers and see this as an important issue. It is also a fact that more and more countries have switched to gender-neutral social security numbers. In Ireland and the United Kingdom, as in a number of European countries, personal identity numbers are gender-neutral. In our neighbouring country, Norway announced in 2014 that it would move to gender-neutral social security numbers, under pressure from the Norwegian LGBTQ Association and from the country's Trans-Confederation. The change now comes in connection with the transformation of Norway's personal identity number system over the next few years, due to restrictions that would otherwise end the available numbers by 2030. Even in Sweden, the personal identity numbers are at risk of running out. Since we probably have to re-design the system, just as we have to do in Norway, this should be a good opportunity to review the issue of introducing gender-neutral social security numbers here too. A legal gender is rarely relevant to show off in everyday life. You don't really need to pick up packages in the mail, buy tickets, look for jobs or borrow books from the library. Your identity documents certify that you are you, so that no one else will pretend to be you. When it comes to the possibility of keeping gender-based statistics, RFSL believes that this is quite possible even if we introduce gender-neutral social security numbers. It gives some examples of how it can be done and points out, among other things, that statistics on gender equality can be kept anyway and that the possibility of collecting register data exists anyway, without legal gender being visible in everyday life. The reason for this is that the gender-neutral personal identity number is linked to a legal gender in the Tax Agency's digital personal image. Gender markers or markers that show which body parts a person has can be found in patient records, for example, calling for a cell test goes to everyone with the uterus – even to those who have changed legal gender to man. I think we should at least investigate this issue before we say whether or not it is possible to introduce gender-neutral social security numbers. I share RFSL's view that this should be quite possible. Gender-neutral social security numbers would significantly facilitate everyday life in a number of areas for transgender people who are in the process of changing gender. It would also reduce the risk of transgender being exposed to various forms of threats and discrimination.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-355	Madam President, I would like Is it that the social security numbers are running out? In 2007, the population register inquiry was commissioned to investigate the personal identity number system – when we become more we also need more personal identity numbers. Several different solutions were analysed, including making the personal numbers gender neutral. However, such a proposal did not go forward, and there were some good arguments for not doing so. It was about costs, among other things, but also about the requirement that we should have gender-disaggregated statistics. After the investigation had submitted its proposal, the then government proposed a scheme in which the Swedish Tax Agency may be more flexible in how to assign the birthdays in the personal identity number. The need to make sure that the personal identity number system is satisfied through this investigation. So we do not need to reschedule the personal identity number system because of this. However, this does not prevent Lotta Johnsson Fornarve from raising the issue. The government has tried to solve the problem of the fact that it takes too long to change personal identity numbers by distinguishing between the legal and the medical process. It is an important step along the way. I would like to await the investigation that is now under way before I take a position on whether we should take further steps in this direction.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-361	Madam President, I would like I am also looking forward to this investigation, and we can continue the debate when it comes. Thank you for the debate.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-363	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for the debate. It is of course important that Sweden is a country where you have the opportunity to live your own life, no matter how you identify yourself. It is important that we are an open society – open to diversity and for different expressions. In a democracy, it is self-evident to live in such a country. Thank you very much, Lotta Johnsson, for raising the issue.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-366	Madam President, I would like Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to simplify the electricity tax process for companies and when this might happen. As a background to its question, Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby states, among other things, that since the end of the year, the companies had to apply for a refund of energy tax on electricity ex post, unlike in the past, when the tax reduction was applied on the invoice. The government strives to design tax rules that are general and clear, without complicated boundaries. It is also important that the regulatory framework is compatible with EU law. I believe that the recent changes to the energy tax on electricity meet these requirements. It is true that at the end of the year there were changes in energy taxation on electricity. These changes meant that there is now only one tax rate and that the tax reductions granted on consumption for certain purposes are achieved by deduction or by application for reimbursement. It is therefore not correct that a reduced energy tax on electricity should be paid exclusively by way of a refund. The purpose of these changes was to establish a direct contact between beneficiaries and the Swedish Tax Agency to facilitate its control of the non-grant of State aid to companies in breach of EU law. I believe that this regulation ensures that Swedish legislation meets the requirements of EU law in this respect. In the case of professional greenhouse cultivation companies, mentioned by Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby, the same rules as were already in force before the end of the year for other professional agricultural activities and for professional forestry and aquaculture activities are now in force. The fact that the lower level of energy taxation on electricity consumed in greenhouse cultivation is now being refunded means that the reductions in the energy tax on electricity in the agricultural sector are being dealt with consistently. It is noted that companies that consume electricity to a greater extent may receive a quarterly reimbursement of the energy tax, thus reducing the liquidity impact of these companies. It can also be noted that the agricultural sector has some other advantages compared to, for example, the industry, for example, in terms of the consumption covered by the lower level of taxation. The Government has taken measures to facilitate the management of large-scale electricity users. At the turn of the year, a possibility of voluntary tax liability was introduced for those who are estimated to consume electricity to a very large extent in industrial production processes or in computer halls. The companies that are approved as voluntary taxpayers can thus benefit from the tax reduction by means of current deductions rather than by means of refunds. I do not want to speculate now on what further changes to energy taxation the government will present.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-376	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister of Finance for the report and for the reply, which was actually a response to my question this time about whether the Minister intends to take any steps to simplify the electricity tax process. The answer from the Minister, if I interpreted her correctly, was that she did not intend to do this. The reason for my interpellation was a description from the reality of the difficult situations that the amended electricity tax rules entail for, among others, greenhouse crops and for small and medium-sized enterprises that use a lot of electricity in their production. The changes that came into force at the end of the year mean that earlier reductions on the invoice are now instead made in the form of a tax refund afterwards. This poses problems for greenhouses, for example, which are seasonal and for which production costs and sales revenues are far removed from each other in time. The fact that companies are forced to spend money while waiting to get the tax back risks having a negative impact on their business. The necessary purchases and expansions of companies are postponed, which in turn can lead to reduced revenues and fewer jobs. Sweden needs more entrepreneurs, and we need less regulatory hassle. In her reply, Magdalena Andersson said that the government strives to design tax rules that are general and clear, without complicated boundaries. Once again, it seems that the government and reality are out of step. Neither LRF nor the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise see this change as a simplification. On the contrary, they see this as another deterioration from the red-green government – another deterioration that complicates it for companies that want to create jobs and growth in Sweden. Then it is perhaps no wonder that the Swedish Industry Board's measurements clearly show that Sweden's entrepreneurs have no confidence whatsoever in the government's regulatory simplification work. These figures are contained in the report that I am now presenting and which I know from previous debates that the Minister for Finance has taken note of.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-384	Can Sweden's entrepreneurs expect further similar changes, perhaps deteriorations, in the regulatory framework in order for the government to fulfil its promise of the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020? If so, what does the Minister of Finance intend to do to convince entrepreneurs, the Swedish business community, the LRF, farmers that she is right and they are wrong about their view of the government's regulatory simplification work?
i-6f158ff505adbdca-385	Madam President, I would like The rules should be as simple as possible but must, of course, remain within the rules that exist within the EU. Over the past year, the EU has tightened the requirements for the control to be carried out on companies receiving support in different ways, so that the aid is not in breach of EU law. It is against this background that we have made the change. It would also not be good for jobs and growth if companies that receive support would then be repayable with interest. I don't want companies to risk that situation. It is in order to protect companies from having to find themselves in a situation where they are liable for repayment with interest, which could be disastrous for companies, for several years of aid that they have received. That is why we need to make this change. It is also possible for some of the greenhouse companies to have a quarterly reduction, because I understand that this can be problematic for seasonal companies. However, if there is sufficient consumption of electricity, there is a possibility of a quarterly reduction.
i-Pa2q3MDUpmhrNdqkB1BsGc	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, for further clarification! Of course we should stick to EU law. But is this really the best form of electricity tax that the government could come up with? I don't think so. There are other possible solutions. That the perception of what is good for jobs and entrepreneurship in Sweden is different depending on whether you are a finance minister or an entrepreneur is becoming increasingly clear. The latest change in the rule in the field of electricity taxation means that Swedish companies act as banks for the Swedish state. Companies lend money to the state when they pay the high electricity tax, which the state may pay back. In addition to creating an unpredictability and requiring increased administration for companies, there are further inconsistencies in the regulatory framework. Usually, Madam President, when we lend money, we get interest on the amount lent. Right now the interest rate is very low, but it's usually a crown. But Magdalena Andersson and the red-green government did not think so when they designed the electricity tax regulations. Instead, they added a threshold sum. This means that if companies are to get anything back on the electricity tax at all, they have to come up in a certain amount. It may sound reasonable if it is to reduce administration and if it is small sums. However, the question is whether SEK 8 000, which is the government's threshold, can be seen as a pittance for small and medium-sized enterprises lending their money to the Magdalena Treasury. To clarify what this means: If the amount you claim is less than $1,000, you don't get a crown. If the amount requested is over $5,000, you get the sum back minus $5,000. Magdalena Andersson and the government thus retain the company's money. Is this reasonable? Another thing about the electricity tax is that five parties in Parliament have just delivered an energy agreement. It included a series of agreements on energy taxation, including electricity taxation. It is being increased to finance other important tax cuts, including the impact tax on nuclear power and the reduction of the property tax on hydropower – two very important tax cuts. In the energy agreement we agreed to increase the electricity tax by 4.2 øre per kilowatt hour. This is also what is constantly being communicated from the government. But in reality the government has made a flat-rate list so that the increase is 5.2 cents. This may not sound like a disaster, but why does the government not tell Sweden's electricity tax payers? My questions to Magdalena Andersson are: Does Magdalena Andersson think it is reasonable for the government to keep the company's money? It is the small and medium-sized enterprises that feel particularly affected here. How did you land on $8,000? And why do Magdalena Andersson and the government not tell us that they make their own flat-rate lists independently of the consumer price index, which we agreed in the energy agreement would be the basis for increases? Can Magdalena Andersson explain how these sums have been arrived at?
i-6f158ff505adbdca-396	Madam President, I would like Is it the case that the government takes money from the companies? Taxation means that the state collects taxes. The fact that we withdraw money from companies and people is taxation, and so do we when we levy electricity tax. On the other hand, there is a reduction in electricity tax for some companies, and we are actually talking about a reduction in taxation. Of course, all taxation means that taxes are levied, but in this case less tax is levied than would be levied without this tax reduction. It is precisely when you charge less tax than you would otherwise do that you end up in state aid problems. This is why administrative processes must also make it possible to check that the aid received by companies is in line with EU state aid rules and that companies do not receive too much support, because they risk being reimbursable. These are the rules and guidelines of the European Union that we have to live up to. We need to keep an eye on how much aid is being paid to different companies in order for us to have these tax reductions. Unfortunately, Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby, it is difficult to round these rules.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-399	Madam President, I would like Of course, we should be in order, and we should comply with European legislation. But Magdalena Andersson did not answer if it is reasonable to keep 8 000 SEK of the income of small and medium-sized enterprises. Me and the Moderates don't think that's reasonable. The tax system is an important tool for creating a favourable business environment in Sweden, where both small and large companies want to grow and create jobs. The government does not have very high confidence in the ability to create a favourable tax system and climate, which is needed for the government to achieve its target of the EU's lowest unemployment by 2020. With decided tax increases of SEK 40 billion and announced tax increases in the environment and energy sector alone of SEK 19.8 billion, I think many entrepreneurs around Sweden are wondering what the government is doing. But in one area the government has succeeded. Due to the change in the electricity tax, the tax office in Ludvika has had to employ 30 new administrators to manage the increased administration. In addition to these 30, companies – small, medium and large – will have to employ more to cope with the increased administrative burden resulting from the change in the electricity tax system. Is this how the government wants to implement its employment policy? If not: How many additional jobs does Magdalena Andersson believe the weakening of the electricity tax system will create? It gets more complicated, more expensive and worse. This is not how you can control Sweden.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-404	Madam President, I would like Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby seems to think that we should not stick to the EU's strengthened regulatory framework as to what control we should have on tax reductions. I'm so sorry, but you can't control Sweden. We need to do this rescheduling, because the European Commission has higher requirements for us to keep track of the aid paid out. One option is, of course, to remove the tax reduction – then it would be a lot easier – if that is what Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby is proposing instead. However, we are not in favour of removing the tax reduction. We believe this would affect companies. Is it right to keep 8 000 kroner? The answer is that we keep much more than $5,000. We are charging taxes here, and then it is about money from companies that we use for infrastructure, which is important for companies, for education, which is important for companies, and for childcare and care for the elderly, which is important for people to be able to work in these companies. That's what this government does. We make sure to strengthen welfare, education, infrastructure and housing investments – all that is so important for the Swedish business community. When you look at Sweden from abroad you can also see that the government's policy strengthens competitiveness. We have jumped up several investments in the World Economic Forum's competitiveness. The World Economic Forum is not a left-wing think tank directly, but they make the assessment that with this government's policy Sweden is more competitive than when it was the Moderates who led the government.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-409	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me whether I and the government intend to proceed with the proposal to tax private health insurance and, if so, why. She has also asked me whether I and the government have carried out an impact assessment of the impact and burden of the proposal on public health. Unlike most other benefits, private health care benefits are tax-free for the employee while the employer is not allowed to deduct the cost of care. This also applies when the employer pays for private health insurance. The rules mean that private health insurance is subsidised by taxpayers who do not have such benefits from their employer. The Government and the Left Party have agreed that the benefit of private health care should be taxed in the same way as other benefits. The new rules are intended to enter into force on 1 July 2018. The issue is now being prepared within the Government Office. I do not want to anticipate this preparation.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-412	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Sick leave has increased strongly since 2010 – measured in sickness benefit rates, the increase is huge 80 per cent. To break the negative trend, the government has set a quantified target: By 2020, sick leave should be 9 days per person. Today, the sickness benefit is 10.7 days. The Director-General of the Social Insurance Agency says that the rise is broken now and that the sickness benefit rate is turning downwards. In order for the decline to take off, the number of new cases of illness needs to be reduced. This places great demands on employers to review their work environment and to best prevent ill health. The Government has a programme of measures to reduce the number of sick leave. It states that preventive measures should be highlighted in order to prevent ill health and sick leave, but also to shorten ongoing cases of illness. This is, above all, where the private health insurance comes in. It can be seen clearly in various analyses that current cases of illness are thus shortened because they are more quickly brought to specialist care. Instead, the government has announced proposals to tax health insurance benefits. It seems very counterproductive. I have tried to get into the issue thoroughly to see what this will mean and how the 650 000 people who currently have private health insurance relieve public health care. Today, one in ten employees has insurance, as more and more companies, municipalities and trade unions are taking out these insurance policies to quickly get their sick workers and members back to work. What an amateur analysis can give us is that taxing these insurances will increase, above all, the length of sick leave. Of the 650 000 people in Sweden who have private health insurance, it is about two thirds, 70 percent, who have signed it through the employer. The other percentages have signed it privately. The second most people have group insurance through their trade union. It's very common to have it. It's also called private health insurance. I have also looked at Swedish Insurance's statistics and also at the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and PTK, which will soon come with a rapport that shows that 40 percent of private employers have signed a health insurance policy. It is clear that it is also used for preventive work, where it is about getting employees not to end up in long sick leave. Now the government has agreed with the Left Party, as the Minister said in his reply, that – very ideologically – a cream for high-income people should be removed, giving them priority in health care. Nothing could be more wrong. As the Minister also said, the new preferential tax will be introduced on 1 July 2018. My question is whether it will be presented to Parliament even if there is a majority against the proposal. Well, that might be interesting to know. The benefit tax is expected to give SEK 1 billion a year to the Treasury – based on the 650 000 insurance policies that are currently underwritten. It is clear that there will be preferential taxation on them, there will be far fewer insurance policies than we have in society today, and then revenue will not be 1 billion. I would like to hear a comment on that.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-425	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by making it clear that this is not a proposal to ban private health insurance. It will be perfectly possible for employers and trade unions to continue to take out private health insurance to the fullest extent they wish. The question is whether this should also be taxed by people who do not have access to private health insurance. My answer is no; I do not think that is appropriate. We have removed this kind of benefit tax on virtually all other benefits because we think it is unreasonable for all taxpayers to be involved in financing the various benefits of individual employees. That's why we've removed it. I find it unreasonable that, for example, the cleaning staff in the municipality should be involved in financing a director's private health insurance through a tax subsidy, but here Lotta Finstorp and I obviously have different opinions. I don't think it's possible to defend, while Lotta Finstorp thinks that the cleaners should fund the managers' private health insurance.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-428	Mr President, I would like to Then we will continue to debate my interpellation on private health insurance and the proposal that the government will probably put forward in the autumn. I'm facing a lot of myths and misstatements about these insurance policies. For example, health insurance is sometimes confused with health insurance, as is the belief that primary care would be included in insurance and that there would be separate waiting rooms for those who have insurance. Nothing could be more wrong. In addition, sickness insurance compensates for part of the loss of income in the event of long-term sick leave. What the debate is about, and what is the government's proposal, is to tax private health insurance, which is covered by 650 000 people today. They are signed by municipalities, trade unions and both larger and smaller companies. What you can see, and as the Swedish Enterprise and Industry also writes, is that the smaller companies will not be able to afford to take out these insurances if you want to tax them preferentially. In addition, the Government has the ambition to reduce sickness rates. You see long sick leave. What you see is that private health insurance is a very effective way of shortening sick leave so that you can get back to work faster, because you can get specialist care through your insurance. I think this is a matter of much more than just the increase in the number of private health insurance policies. It is, of course, a matter of taking out insurance because you are not satisfied with the public health care available, especially the huge queues. Should the government not spend time and effort on improving the availability of publicly funded care instead? Now it's a moment 22. The billion that the state believes it will get into benefit taxation will not become a reality, for fewer people will receive these insurances from the employer. Why, the Minister for Finance, does the number of private health insurance policies have increased in recent years – which is the reason, and why is there a need to have this kind of insurance at all? Does the Minister of Finance think that private health insurance relieves the burden of public health care, or is it a sour cream that allows others to take the lead in the queues? That is how it is expressed when the Government and the Left Party have come together on this proposal. The fact that there would be special waiting rooms for those who have private health insurance is a myth. There is no one who has seen such a waiting room. I would like the Minister for Finance to make a comment on this. What Svensk Försäkring says is that there is a risk that companies that want to compensate their employees for the benefit tax will find it difficult to bear the extra cost. One might imagine that companies that are keen to get their employees back to work will quickly want to compensate their employees for this benefit tax, which will thus affect the employee. Faster access to care is the reason for taking out this insurance. The government needs to focus on removing the queues. We are not talking about primary care, but about specialist care, where many can wait a long time, which leads to long sick leave.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-438	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp wonders if we should not invest in accessibility instead of removing the tax subsidy to private health insurance. I can tell Lotta Finstorp that we in the government have just told us today that we will invest another 5 welfare billions in municipalities and county councils with the autumn budget, i.e. from 1 January 2018. Of these, as many as 3 billion will go to healthcare in Sweden. It is clear that this will increase the availability of healthcare. It's quite a large amount – 3 billion to health care. If the money were to be used to hire nurses at our health centres, it would be enough for four extra nurses at every health centre across Sweden. It is this magnitude of money that is at stake. Lotta Finstorp wonders about different waiting rooms. For me, this issue is not mainly about waiting rooms. It is all about one thing, namely whether other taxpayers – the cleaner in the municipality, Sweden's pensioners and our elderly – should be involved in tax subsidies for those people, often high income earners, who have a health insurance policy. I don't think the cleaner should pay for the director's health insurance. But here I think we have a rather large ideological difference between Moderates and Social Democrats.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-441	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for a debate that is important ideologically but also very pragmatic. I do not really understand how the 650 000 who today have private health insurance, so to speak, will fit in the system. They are currently relieving public health services. The Minister takes as an example the cleaners here. The most common is that employers take out insurance policies for their entire staff, whether it is the highest official or a cleaner. You draw for the entire staff. It will be an unfortunate debate, I think, even if it is about ideology. In fact, this is a much bigger issue, namely: why do employers and staff not have confidence in the public health system? They want to get back to work as soon as possible, and it is linked to the government's good ambition to bring down sickness rates to nine days. The 650 000 people who have private health insurance are helping the government to reduce these days to just nine, instead of 10, 7, as they were when I recently looked. I think it is completely wrong to focus on private health insurance rather than further raising public health care.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-445	Mr President, I would like to It is also important to point out that this debate is not really about whether or not you are for or against private health insurance, but whether or not we are going to tax them. There are many things that we like that we do not have tax subsidies. The question, just as Lotta Finstorp says, is fundamentally deeply ideological: should you tax subsidies this particular benefit or not? I do not think that all those pensioners who already pay higher taxes than ordinary wage earners because of Moderate policies – and the Moderates want to increase the tax gap further – are very pleased that they are involved in financing directors' health insurance via the tax bill. Of course, directors and others can take out health insurance. The question is whether they should receive tax subsidies for it or not. No, I think. Then, of course, the question is also what to do to ensure good access to healthcare for everyone in Sweden, whether we have private health insurance or not. There the government's policy is very clear. At the latest today, we have presented another 3 billion to the health care system in order for everyone to have it really safe. For us, it is more important than the Moderates' tax cuts, which do not strengthen health care.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-449	Mr President, I would like to Larry Söder has asked me. In November 2016, I answered an interpellation where Larry Söder had asked the same questions. I replied to the first question: The rules on representative liability came into being in response to the problems identified with tax losses, particularly in the case of limited liability companies. The companies not infrequently continued their activities long after they should have gone into liquidation. When they were finally declared bankrupt, previous debts to individual creditors had been paid in full or to such a large extent that only small amounts remained in comparison with the tax credits. The conclusion reached was that the form of the company had been used more or less deliberately to allow the general costs of the business to be borne as far as possible. I concluded by saying that my starting point was that the reasons for introducing tax liability still have viability. I have not changed my mind on this point. It may be added that, in connection with the examination of the announcement of a review, the Riksdag also rejected a motion for the abolition of the rules on representative liability. On the other question, I replied as follows: The impact of representative responsibility depends, of course, on the way in which the rules are drawn up and how they are applied. It is important that rules are clear and appropriate. I also mentioned the task that the Swedish Tax Agency has had to highlight a couple of issues, namely the application of the possibility of granting so-called creditor relief, thus giving the company a deadline that extends beyond the ordinary due date of the tax and how the authority takes into account the rules on total or partial exemption from representative liability. In answer to the last question, I noted that the Tax Agency's report on the assignment was part of the basis for the Government's continued work in response to the Parliament's request for a review. I have later said in another context that the Parliament's announcement should be followed. After an analysis of the Swedish Tax Agency's accounts, preparations have now been started in the Government Office on, among other things, the question of the arrangements for the continued work in connection with the announcement. I am not prepared to anticipate that preparation.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-457	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is dependent on companies being set up and that they are growing and staying in Sweden. Entrepreneurship, the willingness to risk and the creative entrepreneurship that these companies represent must be given additional conditions in Sweden. They should not be inhibited. They are needed to create values, which in turn generate jobs and strengthen welfare. That is why it is worrying when those who start and run companies experience concerns about working in Sweden today and assess the cost of failure as too high. A contributing factor to the increased fear of failure is the provision on the tax-law so-called representative liability in the Tax Procedure Act. The Minister of Finance devotes a considerable part of his reply to giving his picture of the representative's responsibility – as I understand it, it is a different picture from that of the majority of the Parliament. It is not surprising in itself, as the Government Party voted against the announcement made in April 2015. I can say to the listener: there was no error. The Swedish Parliament's majority instructed the government in April 2015 to urgently review the representative's responsibility. The consequences of an overly rigorous assessment of the Swedish Tax Agency are the closure of some companies that might not have to be closed down. Not only does the tax authority have a special position among creditors, but it is sometimes also a driving force for an unfortunate development for companies. Sometimes they use their power too hard, and too often they do not take into account reasons for situations or arguments that might give a different picture of the company's situation and future opportunities. One can get the picture that they systematically collect taxes without regard to anything else. As a result, companies that could have lived for a long time are going bankrupt. This, in turn, leads to fewer jobs and personal tragedies. According to studies carried out, many people refrain from setting up and running businesses because of the high risks that can cause them to suffer personally. Responsibilities are a large part of this. I think we agree that four out of five jobs are being created in small businesses and that we need to facilitate the creation of more businesses. This applies not least to young people, where the share of start-ups and business start-ups is worryingly low. For me, the refusal to change representative responsibility so that it is used in a more reasonable way is incomprehensible. Would it not be more reasonable for creditors to be given the same status and to make an assessment on a case-by-case basis of the firm's stability and ability to be continued and of the consequences for the company, other creditors and the Tax Agency before closing the door or taking down the sign for companies in this systematic way? I understand that the view of the Minister for Finance is different from that of me, and I respect that. However, with regard to Parliament's announcement, we should surely be able to agree that it should be re-reported and that we should have the opportunity to discuss it in this House. In the way you are now dealing with the matter in the government, you are burying it effectively in an investigation that looks like never to be finished. In April 2015, the announcement was given, and it does not look like anything is happening on the front that indicates that it will be a quick decision. Entrepreneurs are waiting for answers to this question. Future entrepreneurs want to know. Parliament wants to know. As I see it, the Finance Minister is the only one who does not want an answer to this.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-465	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the government will live up to the announcement. That is exactly why we commissioned the Tax Agency to review this issue. Now we are looking at the answer given by the Swedish Tax Agency, and we are preparing how to proceed with this question. It has to be said that this is a complicated issue. Of course, there are entrepreneurs who feel that they have been treated in an unreasonable way. We'll have a lot of respect for that. This is, of course, an intervention in the activities of companies. It is therefore important that the Swedish Tax Agency is careful when using the instruments you have. That is also why we gave the Swedish Tax Agency the opportunity to do this task. Of course, it is important that the Swedish Tax Agency uses the instruments that it has. It is about the possibility of deferment if it is a temporary liquidity crisis. It is also a question of using the possibilities available for total or partial relief from representative liability. It is a question of using these instruments in a balanced way, so that no company is affected unnecessarily. At the same time, we must say what is in the second balance. This is something that, if you do not use this instrument, can be used for economic crime. Nor, of course, is it good for those companies that are trying to carry out a serious business. We do not want serious companies to be competed out by companies engaged in criminal activities or otherwise tax fraud. It is important to find the right balance. I do not share Larry Söder's view that it is a sour cream for the state. The State has a completely different relationship with the companies than, for example, a supplier. A supplier has the opportunity to stop delivering goods if you are afraid that you will not receive payment. That possibility does not exist for the state. It is always possible for a company not to make its tax payments, and there is nothing that the state can stop delivering to that company. The State therefore has a different position from suppliers. That is why the legislation looks like it does.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-469	Mr President, I would like to In this interpellation, which I actually tried to design differently from the one I set six months ago, I show that the Tax Agency does not even take into account a disease situation. The legal text states that serious negligence is required for personal liability to take place in respect of a tax debt. This seems to be a fair balance in itself, as the provision serves an important purpose. If the concept of gross negligence had been applied as applied in the rest of the legal system, the regulatory framework would also have worked much better today. Unfortunately, a very harsh interpretation of the term has developed in the courts, which in practice means that one no longer examines whether someone has been grossly careless. I believe that the Minister for Finance and I agree that there should, of course, be no way out of taxation through crime. We who want companies to be able to grow and thrive in Sweden naturally want them to pay a reasonable tax. But in view of what is shown in my interpellation and in view of the text of the law, I think you are very nifty. You go far beyond what you should do in the IRS. I would argue that this part of representative responsibility is a major problem for entrepreneurs. I am surprised when the government uses the body concerned, the Swedish Tax Agency, as a party to decide how the system works, what changes can be made and what changes are appropriate. Then the Government Office will consider to eventually submit proposals to the Riksdag. One should look at whether there is any other body or organisation that can help to make that assessment, or whether it is possible to lean on any other party that has a different entrance than being the party that is actually involved. The Minister of Finance's answer today is basically the same as she gave when I asked my previous interpellation. It strengthens me in the belief that nothing has really happened in six months on this issue, which makes me concerned. The announcement is from April 2015. I can't see that it would be urgent. Does the Minister of Finance think this is dealing with an announcement urgently?
i-6f158ff505adbdca-476	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with Larry Söder that we should of course not just listen to the IRS on this issue. It is, of course, important to have a broader perspective than that. That is an important point, and I fully share that view. That is not how we intend to proceed either. However, we have felt that when we look at the matter we should get the basis from the Swedish Tax Agency. The data we have received from the Swedish Tax Agency shows that it is very complicated matter. It is important to find the right way if changes are to be made. These are difficult balances. We are now at the Ministry of Finance thinking about the question. How can we find a suitable way forward? On the one hand, of course, we do not want companies to go bankrupt in the wrong way and not be able to carry out their activities, and on the other hand, we do not want this to be an arena for rogue operators to make big money by not paying taxes. There is a need to find a balance. It is not easy if changes are to be made to the current system. These are exactly the questions we are considering. It is in everyone's interest that the work be done in a good way. Is this urgent? Given the complexity of the issue, it is of course important that we take the time needed to come up with serious ideas.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-480	Mr President, I would like to I am sorry for the entrepreneurs around Sweden who feel pressure on the issue and do not get answers. This also applies to the younger people who are willing to start and run companies in Sweden but who do not dare to take the step. Responsibilities may be a reason why they give up and become employees instead. Then we lose creativity and the possibility that a new company can create jobs. I share the view of the Minister for Finance that this is a complex issue. But I am absolutely convinced that with the help of the competence of the Minister for Finance – she has solved other complicated issues – it should not be so difficult to move forward. The Minister of Finance gives the same answer today as she gave on the same question in the Tax Committee a few months ago. So nothing has happened at all on this issue. I appeal to the Minister for Finance to try to deal with this issue. It would be good if we could get it off Parliament's table and agree on how to handle it. It's worth our entrepreneurs.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-483	Mr President, I would like to I really appreciate Larry Söder's commitment to this issue and his commitment to all the small companies that are operating around Sweden that are important for contributing to jobs and growth. Of course, there should be good conditions in Sweden for running companies. At the same time, there are difficult balances on this issue. It is important not to land wrong, but that there are well-founded thoughts. It's complicated.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-484	Mr President, I would like to Eva Lohman has asked me how I intend to act to strengthen the insurance cover for ambulance staff. Neither ambulance personnel nor other blue-light personnel should have to face threats or violence when assisting people in need of help. This has to stop. The government has taken a number of measures to counter this phenomenon. Workers in Sweden are covered by several insurance policies that apply to those who suffer an occupational injury or fall ill for some other reason. Health insurance is statutory and applies to everyone. Occupational injury insurance is also statutory and covers all workers who suffer an occupational injury. Collective insurance complements legal protection. The issue of reviewing the insurance cover of a particular occupational group is dealt with by the social partners. The Swedish labour market model is based on a division of responsibilities between the state and the social partners. It shall provide good conditions for the parties to take responsibility in collective agreements for the detailed design of working conditions. The government believes that this is something to be protected and not abandoned. The Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations require risk prevention measures and how the work for an improved working environment should be followed up in all work where there may be a risk of an employee being exposed to violence and threats. The occupational safety and health rules apply equally throughout the country and regardless of which activity is carried out. The government has taken other measures aimed at strengthening the protection of blue light personnel. A special investigator has been tasked with considering and proposing the changes needed to provide modern criminal law protection for bluelight personnel and other societal functions.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-490	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I share the Government's view that the working environment of bluelight personnel is important. They're supposed to have the protection they need. I will start by giving an example, which is also why I wrote the interpellation. In Västernorrland, my home country, was an ambulance during the call. A nurse sat in the back caring for a patient. She was tied up, and the other one was driving. The ambulance driver made a cool brake. The nurse in the back fell forward and injured her knee. She's had a lasting butt. This is a problem. The team room says that the staff have the right to sit untied, but the insurance cover offered by employers around the country is not adequate to a hundred percent. The Health Care Association in Västernorrland recommends that the staff take private insurance. But then they will end up in a 22-point relationship, Mr President. They don't get anything on the insurance because they've been untied, but in the legal room that exists, they have the right to be untied. This is unnecessary nonsense that ambulance personnel in their profession should not have to put up with. Anyone who sits in the back of an ambulance and engages in CPR cannot be armed. The patient is belted in a six-point belt and is cared for. But the caretaker has no control over the traffic. You break traffic rules when you drive fast and so on. Anything can happen – and happens. The insurance issue has been on the table for many years, and many studies have been carried out. The studies show that ambulance staff tend not to use a seat belt to secure care for the patient. At present, the nurse cannot care for a patient to a hundred percent while she is belted. Life - sustaining care cannot be performed. There are compression aids that can be used in ambulances. But employers refer to the fact that there is room for law: you do not need; it is all right. That's why there's no means. If you had compression aids in the ambulances and if the Swedish Work Environment Agency said that it should be in each ambulance, the ambulance staff could be armed and at the same time provide the patient with life support care.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-497	Mr President, I would like to I am also taking part in the debate because the same thing has happened in my county of Dalarna. Eva Lohman and I have raised a motion in the Swedish Parliament on this. It is not, therefore, a question of threats and violence against blue-light personnel, but this is a very special piece of legislation. That is why we appeal to the Minister to address these issues. In my home country, an accident occurred when ambulance staff who were on their way to the hospital with a heart patient, a so - called prio 1 call, were hit by an oncoming car. The ambulance ended up in the ditch, and the two paramedics were injured. Through their employer County Council Dalarna, they were of course insured during working hours, even in a so-called prehospital environment, i.e. in the ambulance. But now the problem arises. For example, if an accident had occurred inside the emergency room, it would have been described as an injury at work. But since the damage happened in the ambulance, it became a motor insurance issue. Ambulance personnel, as we heard from Eva Lohman, are exposed to extra risk during their work in the ambulance because their workplace is largely a vehicle. The two ambulances became long - term sick with sick leave as a result. Motor accident insurance for the driving car entered, but the compensation from there was less favourable than the county council's occupational injury insurance. In the present case, the victims appealed to the Trafikskadekommenten but received the answer from it that such events are rare. It's hardly the answer you want in a situation when you need help. It is self-evident that the employer should help in the event of an injury at work. It is not the intention that the injured themselves should have to run legal proceedings when they have had an accident at work. Let me emphasise once again that it is not threats and violence that we are talking about, but a very specific piece of legislation on these issues.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-508	Mr President, I would like to I thank Eva Lohman and Ann-Britt Ann-Britt for an interesting interpellation debate. Now that you've explained the various examples, I understand a little better what you're after. It would be exciting if, in a forthcoming speech, you could elaborate on what you see before you, as you have also raised a motion on the matter. Since I myself have a background as a party to the labour market, I feel spontaneously that this is something that the parties should reasonably resolve, given that it is very specific and related to this particular profession. Municipal, which is a trade union for ambulance drivers and ambulance staff, should put this into practice and lift it up. I share your view that this cannot be a sufficient reason for this being a rare occurrence. Of course, staff who are injured in their professional activities shall be subject to a regulatory framework covering the damage caused. In her first post, Eva Lohman also said that there are aids that should be in every ambulance. I don't know the details, but I think she called it a compression device. I feel spontaneously that I am prepared to raise the issue, but I think, as I said, that the social partners should sit down and pay attention to this. It is an important profession which, like everyone else, is worth protecting in every way.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-513	Mr President, I would like to Sounds good. Most ambulance drivers are trained nurses with a master's degree. I spoke only yesterday to the ambulance nurse who contacted me about the knee injury, although he had not received it. Ambulance workers belong to the Health Care Association, and it is the Health Care Association that has urged them to take out an extra insurance to have adequate protection because the basic insurance does not provide it. It is both strange and unreasonable for them to have to take out private insurance, because I believe that the employer should take full responsibility for having adequate protection. They shouldn't have to argue with insurance companies about belting here and belt there and other demands. This is a staff group that is doing an amazing job and that we are supposed to protect and take care of. They work for the good of the patients. This ambulance nurse, who is very well educated and who is at Sundsvall Hospital, said: My dream is that the Swedish Work Environment Authority is given instructions that there should be compression aids in each ambulance. Then they can sit on armadillos while providing life - sustaining care for the patients. It is a safety issue for both patients and staff. I hope that the Government will take this on board.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-520	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its positive acceptance of this. The matter I am talking about from Västerdalarna has been up in the county council in Dalarna, where I am an accountant. So I am a part of this. No conclusion has been reached on the insurance cover of ambulance staff, and that is why we appeal to the Minister to review the issue. National reinforcement is needed. It is complicated, and there may be more complexity in this than we have highlighted. If a serious accident occurs and staff are seriously injured, they cannot be meant to pursue a legal process themselves. It would be good for the social partners to do this, but in this complexity it is something that does not work between the social partners. That is why there is a need for top-down intervention and some kind of directive to review the entire insurance cover for ambulance staff. What we want with this interpellation is for the Government to review the insurance cover of this important group, which every day saves lives at the risk of its own life. Hopefully the minister can find something in this that you can work with. If it is the social partners who are going to solve this problem, then it must be. But I think there is a greater complexity in the matter.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-527	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an interesting debate. Spontaneously, I see in front of me, as I said, that we basically have insurance cover that you reasonably think they should be covered, although I understand that in this case there is clearly something we need to look at. We have occupational injury insurance that is relatively comprehensive, and collective insurance is complementary to the statutory protection we have on occupational injuries. It is the parties who are negotiating the content of the collective supplementary insurance policies, and therefore – I am thinking a little loud here now – should be able to find a solution to this problem. But, as I said, I take this issue with me. Finally, as Ann-Britt Ann-Britt says, this is, of course, an issue to consider for the employers responsible as well. It is interesting to hear that the issue has even been up in the county council but has not been resolved there. In this case, it is obvious that it is the county council that is responsible for the employer and that in dialogue with the Health Care Association and Kommunal should solve the issue. Thank you for your wise input into the debate. I'll take the question with me. My curiosity is really aroused, I must say. This is, as you both say, an incredibly important occupational group, whose representatives should, of course, be able to feel completely safe in their professional activities when saving the lives of other people.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-530	Mr President, I would like to It feels good that the Government takes the question with it and looks at it. The team space may not be satisfactory today because the employer refers to it, even when the staff believe that there are compression aids and other aids that make it possible to perform advanced care in the ambulance. It is probably a cost issue for many county councils. It costs a lot. But this is important. The idea is not that ambulance personnel should be injured in their job, and when that happens they should have adequate protection. They do not think that they do today, but they are in a 22-point situation. I appreciate the government taking these questions along and looking at the team space. There must be an interpretation possibility that allows the employer to take it to his advantage if one says that there is no need for compression aids or anything else – implicitly because it costs money. And there's security in the law.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-532	Mr President, I would like to My final reflection is that the employer naturally has an incredibly far-reaching responsibility to ensure a working environment that allows you to perform your work safely without risking harm. Thank you for an exciting and interesting interpellation! In any case, we are very much in agreement with the ambition to safeguard the working environment for ambulance staff as well.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-534	Mr President, I would like to Magnus Oscarsson has asked me what I and the government will do to ensure, during the period from today to 2020, the availability of broadband for households threatened by Telia's cutting of the copper network. At the moment, a shift to future-proof electronic communications infrastructure is under way. The transition has already been going on for a long time. Today, most have already completed the technology shift. About 1 million households still use the copper network for broadband. For the vast majority of these, there are good alternative solutions. The Government's objectives in the area of broadband cover everyone and are set out in the broadband strategy. The goal for 2025 is for all Sweden to have access to high-speed broadband. The objective is technology neutral, which means that the connection can be provided through fixed or wireless technologies, or a combination of different technologies. Technology development and Swedish market development have led to good expansion of fibre networks and increased mobile coverage, which makes it possible to dismantle copper networks. For the government's vision of the broadband strategy to become a reality, efforts from both private and public actors are needed. The government is therefore working to ensure that the positive developments in broadband roll-out continue and will focus on activities in the strategic areas identified by the strategy. In addition to the investments made by market players, the Government has allocated SEK 4.25 billion under the Rural Development Programme to support the roll-out of high-speed broadband in rural and sparsely populated areas where the commercial conditions for broadband roll-out are lacking. In addition, the government also has possible small broadband investments of SEK 1.2 billion within the framework of the regional fund programmes in the northern parts of the country. Until 2020, the Government has also allocated SEK 21 million per year to regional broadband coordinators as a way to promote and facilitate the expansion of both public and private actors. According to PTS's latest broadband survey, access to high-speed broadband continues to increase in Sweden. In October 2016, 71 per cent of households and enterprises had access to 100 megabits per second, and about 91 per cent had access to 30 megabits per second. In addition, over 99.9 per cent of households and businesses have access to at least 10 megabits per second, including rural and sparsely populated areas. On behalf of the Government, PTS has recently investigated which level of universal service, SOT, is appropriate to ensure that all households and businesses have access to internet services that are essential for being able to live and operate anywhere in the country. PTS's report is now being prepared in the Government Office, and the Government intends to take a position on the appropriate level for SOT. Moreover, the Government has recently decided that most of the so-called 700-megahertz band will be opened in order for PTS to auction it as soon as possible. This means that we will be able to get faster connectivity and even better coverage across the country in the mobile network in the coming years.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-541	Mr President, I would like to During my travels around Sweden, broadband almost always comes up. Why is the copper wire cut? I always get that question. The good thing about the copper wire is that there is access to ADSL and broadband. When the wire is cut, in the worst case, there is no contact with the outside world via broadband. When fixed broadband disappears, there will be large additional costs for the individual subscriber, who will be forced to switch to mobile broadband solutions that may not work or possibly be referred to the municipality, who says that it is not able to bring this about in the way desired. Maybe you have to bury a cable yourself. The costs will then increase for the individual. Telia has cut the copper wire for about 10,000 subscribers in 2016 and continues at full speed to cut copper wire even this year – 12,500 are expected in 2017. From many quarters problems with connection are reported after the copper wire has been replaced with mobile broadband. Many mobile masts are simply overloaded. What is the government's responsibility to talk to Telia, in which the government is actually a partner, about waiting to turn off broadband across Sweden? Why doesn't the Minister talk to Telia and convey the message that you should wait with the dismantling of the broadband until there is an adequate alternative?
i-6f158ff505adbdca-546	Mr President, I would like to The explanation is that this has been going on for quite some time. I myself stood in this speaker's chair ten years ago and talked about exactly the same issue. Then it was another government. After that came a bourgeois government that sat for eight years. Not at any time during this period has Telia had the obligation to wait, but it has gradually continued to decommission the copper network. At the same time, we have expanded both mobile and fixed broadband networks in Sweden. So today we are in the final phase of the decommissioning of the copper network. Today we also have much better technology laid out. We have much better coverage and much faster connections in the mobile networks, and we have access to broadband in the form of fibre that is at a very good level. The target we now have for 2020 for 95% of households and businesses to be able to get a fast connection, we have the opportunity to cope with. But it will require us to continue to invest money from the state in the next few years in order to achieve this goal. With this, and with the deployment of new mobile networks under way, we will have such a good surface coverage that, in my opinion, there is no great cause for concern. Everyone will be able to get a perfectly good connection to the network, either via the mobile networks or via broadband with fibre. This means that this discussion can be reduced at least to the level that Magnus Oscarsson was at now, namely that there will be a cost. It is true that there is a cost when you move to the new technology. But at the same time we get a future-proofer and better technology. The old copper wire has seen its best days. This means that Sweden will be the leader in this area. We will then have the opportunity to extend public services online, and people will be able to improve their quality of life by enabling them to deal with many everyday matters even more online in the future.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-550	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for that answer. It can't be that you don't meet citizens who have issues with connectivity. When I go on a trip, I meet a lot of people who are talking about this. A couple of weeks ago I was in Valdemarsvik and met Annelie and Rembrandt, who is an entrepreneur and runs Yxningens Camping outside Gusum. They told us how concerned they were that broadband through ADSL should be switched off. Naturally, many children come to a family campsite, and they want an internet connection. That's not the case. Annelie and Rembrandt were very concerned about how this campsite will turn out. I repeatedly meet people who have concerns when Telia now cuts the copper wire. It can't be anything new for you, Peter Eriksson, but you must have heard it during your travels. I know you travel a lot in the country. I'm thinking about how you think. Previously, the 700-megahertz band has been an option. I'm very happy to hear today that you've been thinking about it anyway. Then the government decided to wait two years. I was very surprised by that. But now I understand that you are going to open this up again, and I think that is very positive. Can you, Peter Eriksson, tell me a little bit about how you think about the 700-megahertz band, and why don't you talk to Telia? Why can't you discuss with them? Peter Eriksson tells us that there is a shift in technology and that the previous government was also involved. Of course it was. But it is you who are now ruling, and you are the minister. Take responsibility and talk to Telia and tell them what it looks like in the country. Try this way to make a difference.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-556	Mr President, I would like to I agree that Telia naturally has a responsibility to look after its customers and ensure that this transition between different technologies works well. I also agree that it has not always been the case that this responsibility has been taken on board everywhere. I've talked to Telia about this. Of course, we from the government, as a shareholder of this company, believe that this responsibility must be taken seriously and handled in a good way. In essence, however, this transition from copper to fibre and to faster mobile broadband remains a good transition. We need this technological change throughout the country. There are a small number of people, like me, who live far out in the woods and who do not yet have really good connections. But it has improved for us as well. Since 4G was released, it has improved. Gradually, there will now also be numbers of 4G. Then you will have both internet connection and speech on this better coverage. Soon, as I said, the 700-megahertz band will be auctioned out. This also applies to the 450-megahertz band. Both of these frequency bands have good surface coverage. This will give us even better opportunities for good mobile networks all over Sweden. That is the point when they are laid out to ensure that areas with lower connectivity, white spots, are also guaranteed good coverage. There are a variety of techniques that can be used. Some of them cost a little more. There are isolated households – according to the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, some ninety households in Sweden – for which we do not meet the requirements we set for universal service. They have the opportunity to turn to PTS for help. But for the vast majority there are good alternative technologies. However, it costs a little at the time of the conversion.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-562	Mr President, I would like to It is not small money we are talking about, it is about a lot of money. In the past it may have cost 5 000, but now we are talking about perhaps 20 000 or, at worst, up to 100 000. So we are not talking about any small money for the individual to bet. I'll tell you about Sonja. She is 90 years old and lives in Rödja outside Sävsjö. Today she has a fixed telephone via ADSL, which works perfectly. Telia has promised to cut that thread. Sonja today has to go out to a stone outside and try to make contact. Perhaps she is one of those you mentioned, Minister, who cannot have this; that is possible. But the individual is affected. I think there is a common thread here, and it is this: if this had happened in a big city, there would have been a outcry. DN would have had headlines about it. Now, however, it is quite quiet in the countryside, and hardly anyone notices. I find that problematic. The signal is a little bit that whoever lives in the countryside has to blame himself. The phone may not work, but you'll have to take it. Are you an entrepreneur? Well, the copper wire's been cut a long time ago. In the 2014 Green Party Election Manifesto, you talked about expanding fast broadband – a secure and equal public service to the whole country. I am thinking of this with the whole country and Sonja, who is 90 years old. I wonder what you're thinking as a minister. Why does the government give priority to the city over the countryside? Why is the countryside being dismantled as radically as it is now?
i-6f158ff505adbdca-566	Mr President, I would like to Magnus Oscarsson says he thinks about Sonja, who is 90 years old. Then I think like this: Why did Magnus Oscarsson not think of Sonja when we had a bourgeois government for eight years? You then adopted a broadband strategy that applied to 90 percent of the Swedish people, Magnus Oscarsson. A whole million people were left completely out of the broadband strategy you adopted a few years ago. I do not think it was very responsible, I have to say – especially if you care about people living in rural areas. One million people thought you were not even worth mentioning in that broadband strategy. Now, in December, the Red Green Government has adopted a new strategy – because it was needed. It covers everyone in Sweden. 100% will get good, fast broadband by 2023. Then we have the target of mobile networks. 95% will have fast broadband by 2020. I am proud and happy about this. I know that the government is investing more money than the previous government did in order for us to get this out as quickly as possible and for it to have a quality-of-life effect across Sweden. This offers great opportunities to many people, and I do not think we have anything to be ashamed of. We have tried to think of Sonja and all the others who live in the countryside. I think it is a pity that you did not do so during the last term of office, Magnus Oscarsson. Then we would have gone further.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-570	Mr President, I would like to Jan Ericson has asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs what measures she intends to take in relation to what happened at the Swedish Institute and how she intends to work to ensure that nothing similar happens in any other authority under her department. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Swedish Institute is an authority responsible for disseminating information and knowledge about Sweden and the Swedish language abroad and promoting cooperation and long-term relations with other countries in the fields of culture, education, research and democracy and society in general. The agency's activities aim to increase the interest and confidence of the outside world in Sweden, increase collaboration in Sweden's neighbourhood and promote democratic, fair and sustainable global development. The work with Sweden's image abroad is guided by the core values of openness, innovation, kindness and authenticity. Since 2011, the Swedish Institute has been running a project called Curators of Sweden – which includes a Twitter account called @weden – where every week a new person, a The Swedish Institute has stated that it has failed in its handling of legal and other aspects by blocking certain Twitter accounts. The agency has now removed the blockages. I note that the Swedish Institute is now reviewing its procedures around the Twitter account @weden, and I do not intend to take any further action. The Government will continue its efforts in public diplomacy through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other ministries, through the foreign authorities and through the Swedish Institute.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-576	Mr President, I would like to This debate is not really about what the interpellation heading says. Instead, it is about something much more important, namely that we must be able to rely on Swedish authorities to comply with the law. The fact that the Swedish Institute, an agency under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, gratefully receives from a private person a database of 14 000 alleged online haters and then uses it to block people from the agency's official Twitter account is of course remarkable in itself. However, defending the blockages on one's own website, and also stating that they are quality assured, is a total scandal. In addition, the blockings are justified on their website by the fact that the people who have been blocked were driven, threatened, hated and incited to migrants, women and LGBTQ people, but also to organisations that are involved in human rights. It is also added that these accounts often have a right-wing and/ or neo-Nazi orientation and are also inciting to violence. In this way, you cross the line of decency. Prosecution crimes are close at hand. Among the wrongly designated right-wing net haters are Israel's ambassador to Sweden, the Mayor of Copenhagen, a number of elected Swedish MPs – including myself – editorial writers, senior police and defence officials and many others. Even Bill Gates was on the list. The only thing we seem to have in common is that we don't belong to the extreme left. This seems to be the only selection criterion to be known as net haters by a Swedish authority. When the Swedish Institute concerned itself with this illegal register of alleged opinions, several laws were violated. When the Director-General then decided to wipe out the database instead of making it available to those who requested it in accordance with the principle of public access, further laws were violated. However, at least one journalist had time to get the database out before it was destroyed, and the entire database – with all the data – is therefore available online. This makes the damage to the affected persons even greater. As if this was not enough, the Swedish Institute also posted a form on its website where the person who felt unfairly treated himself could request correction. At that time, however, the person acting under an anonymous account was required to state his or her real name and to justify why he or she was wrongly identified. A large number of people submitted such sensitive personal data, and at the same time declared their political views, to the Swedish Institute. No one would have expected what then happened, namely that the authority set up a new list. It contained all the complainants, and all sensitive personal opinions were in plain text. This list, too, is contrary to the law, and it has now been disseminated to the public as a public document. Among other things, I have received it myself from the authority, and last week I therefore notified the authority to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Freedom of expression expert Nils Funcke writes in Dagens Juridik that the Swedish Institute has created an illegal register of imaginary and real online haters. Many other experts, lawyers and editorial writers have criticized the agency for the same thing. In his reply, the Linde Government writes that the Swedish Institute has stated that it has failed in its handling of legal and other aspects. Despite this, the Government therefore gives the message that she does not intend to take any further action. Does the Government mean that it is free for authorities under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to break Swedish law without the Ministry acting at all? What further laws does the Ministry consider that Swedish authorities can violate without consequences?
i-6f158ff505adbdca-585	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the authorities are not allowed to engage in illegal activities, whatever they may be. Therefore, it is important that this case be investigated in law, in order to determine whether the Authority could be said to have engaged in the registration of opinions by Twitter users. There are cases where authorities may block other Twitter accounts. It is when Twitter users express opinions that are contrary to Swedish law, for example when the post is incitement, incitement to ethnic groups or child pornography offences, contains offensive personal data or otherwise violates Swedish law. Blockages must always be carefully considered. The Swedish Institute has made a mistake, and this has been acknowledged. Now measures are being taken to investigate how the mistake has been made. Among other things, outside legal expertise has been used to conduct an independent investigation of the incident, which I welcome. The Director-General of SI has acknowledged that the agency has made mistakes, and she has set up this investigation to investigate what has been broken. I will not be subject to the legal trials that are now being carried out. The Swedish Institute has thus failed in its procedures, and the authorities are reviewing them. I have ensured that measures are taken by the Authority to prevent similar mistakes from being made in the future.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-590	Mr President, I would like to This question is not about whether it is correct to block Twitter accounts – it is about much more than that. This question concerns the fact that an authority has received a list from a private person and has uncritically incorporated it into its handling and used it to block its official account. The problem lies in the motivations you have posted on your website – not in blocking a Twitter account. Many of these accounts have never had anything to do with this Twitter account. I have never even known that it exists – I was told by the back door that I was on this list. I have never acted with this account at all, and yet I am identified in this way. I put my interpellation to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because it also concerns the overall question of how she, as Head of Department, intends to work to ensure that nothing similar happens in any other authority under her department. Unfortunately, this question is not answered at all in the interpellation response. Maybe it's not surprising because Ann Linde isn't the head of the department. I can only regret that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is afraid to take this debate. Delegating to a minister who is not responsible for the issue that the interpellation touches on is a bit strange. This morning, however, I took note of the Government's response. It felt very familiar – it was completely identical to the answer she gave some time ago in response to three written questions from three other Members of Parliament. However, my interpellation involves quite different things. In spite of this, the Government has not even bothered to change the smallest word in its interpellation response, but only copied the previous answer directly. I think it's very disrespectful to me as an interpellant. As I was able to conclude this morning that the Minister does not intend to act at all against the Swedish Institute's criminal offences and bad judgment, I have today filed a police report against the Director-General of the Swedish Institute. The fact that a Member of Parliament reports a Director-General of a State Authority to the police should be extremely unusual. However, if the minister responsible does not act when a state authority is clearly in breach of the law, the question must become a matter for the judiciary instead. I can also inform Ann Linde that a week ago 43 JO notifications had been received on this matter. It is likely that there have been a few more since then. Very many sufferers are very upset. But the Swedish government is silent. It accepts that one of its authorities has committed a number of obvious offences. These violations do not need to be investigated; they are self-evident. For example, the Authority has cancelled a document that has been requested in accordance with the rules on public documents. To macularize the document instead of handing it out is an obvious breach of the law – it does not even need to be investigated. But the government does not even criticise what has happened. I think it's rather distressing. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister for Trade if she or the Head of Department has at least had some discussions with Director General Annika Rembe about what has happened.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-602	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we find this very regrettable, but we will not have the legal trials that are now being carried out. That's what I said. Of course, an authority which receives a request to disclose a public document cannot destroy it and then refer to its absence. There too, however, we await the review that the Parliamentary Ombudsmen now have to do after the notifications that have been made. As soon as we received information that this had happened, by people contacting us, we contacted the Swedish Institute to find out what happened and how the agency intended to act. Since then, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has kept in constant contact with the Authority to monitor developments. We run the agency through regulatory letters and regulations, and we appoint the Director-General. The Swedish Institute also has a so-called Transparency Council, which will meet this week and which will raise the issue. I have learned this personally from the Director-General because I have obviously spoken to her about this issue. However, the responsibility for the Twitter account itself is that of the Swedish Institute, under the direction of the Director General. It's not a decision in itself that the government made. This account is part of the focus on freedom of expression, where SI has a very important mission. I totally agree with Jan Ericson that things have gone really wrong here. That is why we are waiting for the judicial review and the judgment of the Parliamentary Ombudsmen before we continue to do anything.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-608	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that there was at least a discussion with the Director-General. That is a good thing, but unfortunately that is not enough. An important issue in this context is how to restore the victims. I have had a number of reactions from troubled individuals since I began to sneeze into this. They are very upset to have been described in this condescending way by the Swedish Institute. It's still a government agency under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The large database is searchable by a Swedish online magazine and is also distributed in other ways, which means that the data in principle never disappears. For the young person named by a Swedish authority as a violent online hater and right-wing extremist, this can have consequences in the future. Among other things, we know that many employers are searching online for information about job seekers. The damage caused by the Swedish Institute to a large number of people cannot therefore be undone. This debate gives the Minister for Trade an excellent opportunity to present his sincere apology and that of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to those affected. I have the impression that the Government is at least concerned about this. She admits this isn't very successful. There is a chance here to really apologize to all the people who have been affected by this and who are completely innocent of what they have been accused of. I assume that the Government will take this opportunity in its final speech. I would also like to ask her how she and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intend to contribute to the restoration of the victims, if it now appears that Swedish law has been violated. For example, I have the document in which the Director-General himself signed an explicit decision to wipe out the database instead of handing it out under the rules on public documents. It is written literally in the document, and it is easy to get out of the authority.
i-6f158ff505adbdca-617	Mr President, I would like to The Director-General of the Swedish Institute has apologized for the incident and, as I said, has admitted that this is a mistake. I do not want to pre-empt the legal trials and the Parliamentary Ombudsmen's assessments of what this will lead to. I also have no reason to say anything about what it will lead to, but we will have to come back to that. I would like to emphasise that the Twitter account as such is a way of trying to reach new groups. One person has been allowed to have an account every week, which in itself seems to me to be something positive. Then it has gone very wrong, and this is what is now to be investigated, both legally – there is a judicial investigation – and according to the JO's assessment. After that, we will have to come back to a discussion here between the interpellant and myself, who is responsible for the Swedish Institute.
