i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-5	Madam President, I would like Confidence in the state, the government, the institutions and our state authorities has gained a great deal in the last six months. This summer it was discovered that large amounts of confidential information handled by the Swedish Transport Agency has leaked and possibly spread to foreign power. These are information that includes information about Swedish infrastructure, driving licence registers and individuals living with protected identity. This is extremely serious. The other week TV4's Cold Facts reported that the Swedish Transport Administration in northern Sweden is characterised by a widespread mute culture. Among other things, fraud invoices are produced by officials in the work. Several road painters in the report testify to how entrepreneurs bribe employees at Trafikverket. Money changes owners at secret meetings, like taken out of a James Bond movie. Another example from the authority is an entrepreneur who would renew his driving licence to use it at work. He sent after his application for the new licence because it had not reached him. Then he was told by the authority that his case was on the table but that he had to change the address because the address was too long for the authority to handle his case. You don't believe what you hear. Madam President, I would like Authorities and state enterprises must always lead by example and good judgment and be an example. Otherwise, trust is eroded not only in the authorities that serve the state and citizens, but also in the companies that manage citizens' money. The state commitment means that the owner must be on his toes to resolve issues of trust, credibility and delivery. A vital business sector in Sweden is the basis for growth, jobs and development. Therefore, the authorities must be part of this. Competition on equal terms is also a prerequisite for state-owned companies. That is why it is important to keep up with the time and that the owner constantly asks himself whether ownership by government is the best result. It would be best if government ownership could be reduced over time, as there are special situations to operate in a politically governed world. It is also important to stress that state ownership, which has several roles to act upon, is doubled and that there are special circumstances. In the end, it will be as if a judge in a football game himself plays in a game that he judges at the same time. With the bill put forward by the previous alliance government ten years ago, the difference between the private and public spheres has become clearer. A state-owned company, unlike a private company, is never in danger of going bankrupt. This also removes accountability. Companies work reasonably better without government clout and political detail management. Nor should the State compete with private companies in functioning markets. The foundation of moderate enterprise policy is to create the conditions for more new companies and more people who dare to hire. When the state owns companies, this should be done with great long-termness, transparency and responsibility, as well as with high demands for clear principles that must be respected and followed up continuously. Today, there are 48 state-owned companies that are subject to the ownership policy that set out the international guidelines that all state-owned companies should comply with. Our goal is to promote the continued sustainable and long-term management of state-owned companies. Where there is no reason for the State to own them or to be a shareholder of these companies, ownership should also be gradually phased out. Madam President, I would like Postnord is still something of a sad child. Unfortunately. It is gratifying, albeit tragic, that cameras have begun to be used in some of the cars to ensure that the handling of packages and consignments is right and to prevent theft. The confidence of the Swedish people for Postnord is deeply shaken. Too many people testify to drivers from Postnord who say they have not been able to leave a package, even though the person has been waiting for the package all day. Packages are still being handled carelessly. One man discovered about forty letters and packages in a garbage can outside his apartment building. They had been left undivided. When he called Postnord, the answer was that he could distribute them himself. This must be taken into account by the company, so that it achieves trust and trust and is able to deliver. Postnord made a loss in the third quarter of nearly SEK 200 million. From January to September this year, the company recorded a loss of almost half a billion. In addition, Sweden loses its position within the EU through the operation of postal services in the country. Postnord has fallen from seventh to fifteenth place, and today Sweden is lagging behind countries such as Greece and Slovakia. It is clear that the reforms taken by Postnord itself are not sufficient. That is why the government needs to take serious steps in relation to the future of Postnord and state ownership. Madam President, I would like The government calls itself feminist and has had a high tailline in terms of gender equality and women's rights. But this also involves taking responsibility for the institutions and activities in which state and government govern and set the framework. In the wake of the so-called metoo campaign, many women, actors, musicians and artists have gone public and told about sexual harassment and abuse that they have been subjected to. Many of these women are active at the Dramatic Theatre and Opera in Stockholm. Both the Dramatic Theatre and the Opera are government activities, which means that there is an extra responsibility on the part of the government to ensure that these workplaces work well and are characterized by openness, equality, tolerance and respect. The most remarkable and shocking is the extensive culture of silence and back-drain mentality that has been allowed to develop in these activities and industries. The victim has not been listened to but has been blamed, silenced or relocated. This is terrible and totally unacceptable. Now it is important to take proper note of the inventory of policy documents as well as plans and that the government delivers after all the talk about being a feminist government with a feminist policy. Madam President, I would like In October last year, the government sold 19 million ordinary shares in SAS, reducing government ownership from 21 to 17 percent. It's welcome. An airline operating in a free and open market should not be kept under the arms of Swedish taxpayers. However, SAS has serious problems, and it has clearly not been able to switch to today's market and demand, as SAS traffic continues to decline. In one year, scheduled traffic has decreased by 3 percent compared to last autumn, and charter traffic also points downwards for SAS. In a free and open market, which the airline industry represents, it is difficult to justify that the State continues to have a stake in SAS. Therefore, it is good that the government wants to continue to suspend state ownership, that the government continues to be clear that the Swedish state should not be a long-term owner of companies and that in October the government refused to sign up for a new shareholding in a future issue for SAS. Madam President, I would like The state is not supposed to run a business. In some cases, however, there may be value in the state taking responsibility from a societal perspective that benefits the whole of Sweden. LKAB can be such an example. However, it is important to constantly review the holdings in all state-owned companies. As I have mentioned before, companies play a role at a certain time, but that function can change and be lost in a new time. If there are clear reasons to reduce state ownership in a company, the state should reduce its interest and sell its stake in the company, and the profit should go to continue to reduce Sweden's public debt. The sale of state-owned companies should always take place on the basis of whether other actors can do the work better, and sales should be made on market terms. Therefore, all state-owned companies must be continuously evaluated to ensure the long-term, efficiency and continued value of state ownership. Finally, the state ownership policy will continue to be reviewed in order to reduce state ownership within Swedish industry. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservations 1 and 3 of the Alliance.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-23	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs on state-owned companies. The general attitude of the Swedish democrats towards state-owned companies is that ownership should primarily safeguard the long-term interests of the citizens. Basic functions must be ensured throughout the country, whether for infrastructure or other services. The state will manage our joint properties with great values in the best way and provide employees with good working environment and good conditions and development opportunities. We should set an example in terms of responsibility for both the environment and health. We see that our state-owned companies continue to be at the forefront in the future in terms of value creation, ethics and responsibility, but we also see that state ownership has a balance – and regulatory responsibility to be able to enter with healthy competitive conditions in markets that are unsoundly regulated. We believe that although private companies are the cornerstone of the Swedish economy, state ownership is important in terms of the overall social mission. The synergies of private and state ownership are therefore of the utmost importance. However, we also see the value of ensuring that these synergies are not disrupted by maintaining unsound competitive relations between the private and public sectors. Madam President, I would like After several difficult years for the state's corporate portfolio, mainly with large losses and write-downs in central government companies Vattenfall linked to the adventures undertaken abroad, it is now starting to look better. When 2016 was summarized, the result was still negative. But if you were to exclude the result for Vattenfall, you would land in a profit for the state. The estimated value of the company portfolio has also been falling since the beginning of the previous term of office, when the value of the entire company portfolio was estimated at nearly SEK 600 billion. It has since fallen year by year to 580 billion, 530 billion, 500 billion, 460 billion and 430 billion. Here we had a trend shift last year, when the value in 2016 for the first time in a really long time turned upwards and the estimated value landed at SEK 510 billion. It is therefore starting to look brighter, but it also requires that we do not go into new traps or rush into new problems. For Vattenfall, which is a state-owned company, there are good opportunities for the state and citizens to achieve energy policy objectives. The company is an important tool in the energy policy arena. The goal of Sweden's democrats for this arena will be to maintain and develop the country's energy system, which, as far as possible, will be characterized by independence from fossil energy and that Sweden avoids making itself dependent on importing electricity in the long term. Our view is also that the company's focus should be shifted from expansion abroad to protecting the Swedish electricity supply in a long-term perspective. The company has suffered considerable financial losses from its adventures abroad, and large losses of write-downs and write-downs have marked the debate in recent years. Now the most problematic time is probably linked to investments and corporate purchases. There is one thing that has come to an end, but the worrying thing is that it is now expanding its operations in the UK, making its biggest investments so far in Dutch wind power, investing heavily in Germany and investing heavily in offshore wind power outside Sweden's borders. The Government has now also announced that an Extraordinary General Meeting for Vattenfall will decide on new financial targets for the company in December. Among other things, it will propose lower return requirements for the company, as large investments in the sun and wind are not as profitable. There's one thing. More problematic is the simultaneous elimination of one of the objectives of the capital structure of the companies: the objective that regulates the net debt-to-income ratio, i.e. the removal of net interest-bearing liabilities divided by equity. The debt in the company in relation to the equity capital can run away when there is no control from the owner's side of how much you can go into debt and what risks you should take. There is an obvious risk here: You can go on a new mine when you lower the yield requirements and make sure you can borrow even more to have a rapidly expanding business abroad. Should you get the same development of electricity prices abroad that we have had in Sweden, the same need for depreciation and write-down will arise in the investments that are now being made. There is therefore every reason to follow the development of the abolition of these targets to see how it affects the company's debt in the future. Madam President, I would like What is inevitable in this debate is what is happening at the moment in Postnord. It is dealt with in more committees than the Committee on Industry. There are, above all, two things on the agenda. The first is the changes in the Postal Act that affect the current level of service, where the so-called overnight transport is likely to be replaced by a requirement that 95% of the domestic letters submitted should have been distributed within two working days. Modernising legislation for postal services, for Postnord, linked to our present time, is probably most necessary. However, the availability of a functioning postal service – despite our ever-increasingly digitised world – remains a prerequisite for living, living and working. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the same conditions apply as far as possible to both urban and rural areas and that developments are closely monitored to see how the amended legislation beats. The second is the difficult financial situation of the company, mainly caused in the short term by developments in Denmark, where postal volumes have fallen significantly in recent years as a result of Danish legislation to digitise mail from public activities to citizens. This has created the need to reform the business, where the so-called special conditions are problematic – the staff have very favourable termination conditions with a notice period of several years when they are completely out of work. When you add new capital to the company from Denmark and Sweden, the distribution is favourable from a Swedish perspective. Our share of the share capital is 60%, but we account for only 18% of the share raised. Nevertheless, some praise is due to the negotiations that preceded this capital injection and that we have at least made up for part of the first round. The problem is that the development we have been able to see in Denmark is something that awaits us in Sweden in the future. From a Swedish perspective, the hope is that the conversion will take long enough, so that the company itself can change its production model in order to handle the reduced letter volumes. But it remains to be seen whether the profit in this first round will be enough to make such a soft landing or whether the degree of digitalisation will be screwed up more and more quickly. At the same time, half of the company's equity in Postnord consists of goodwill and other intangible fixed assets. Costs of up to SEK 3 billion have also been announced in order to make this transformation of the production model and to get back on track. Should the book values in the form of goodwill and other intangible assets not be defensible during the conversion period, the entire company's equity capital is effectively wiped out. Then we will need additional capital injections, and it remains to be seen how good Sweden will be in those negotiations. The problems are thus far from over for Postnords, and it is important from a Swedish perspective to follow developments closely linked to both legislation regarding postal services and how to manage to live up to the financial goals that the company has. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to endorse our reservation 2 in the report. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of it.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-46	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for reservations 1, 3 and 5. As you know, it is no secret what the Center Party and the Alliance think about the major state corporate ownership. We find it problematic that the state is both a big player and a judge in this case. That is why we have said that, as soon as possible and the economy allows, we sell a large part of these companies. Some companies we want to keep: those who have an important social mission and others who are important from a security policy point of view. In the next few years, we need to build hundreds of thousands of homes. The problem today is that there is no land everywhere, and even if it is the municipality that is responsible for this, the state needs to help. In order to increase access, the Center Party proposes that the government provide just that. That is why we need to revise the ownership directives for state-owned companies, which are also landowners, so that they are given the task of developing suitable buildable land. I know there's an investigation going on looking at this and will be presented this spring. It's more than welcome. You know this, and I have talked about this in the past, but since the problem not only existed last year but also remains this year, I would also like to mention that we are seeing the dismantling of services and jobs in rural areas. The state bears a great responsibility here. I and the Center Party find it strange that the current government has a high tailline and says that the whole of Sweden should live, while not using some of the state companies to supplement weaker markets. A shining example of this is the state bank SBAB. It was not long since SBAB decided to leave its corporate customers north of the Dalälven to their fate. This means that SBAB does not want any business customers in rural and small towns. Now it is Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and major growth and higher education cities that apply. I find it remarkable that Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg has no objection to this. I wonder what we're going to do with a government bank if it doesn't exist in the whole country and if there are also lots of commercial banks that can do the same job. In fact, I think there are quite a lot of people who agree with me, and the Social Democrats will be very happy to answer that question. Another aspect, Madam President, which I must mention and which I am still very sad about, is that the state venture capital company Inlandsinnovation was incorporated into a new company, Saminvest. I am not against the existence of a new venture capital company, but the sad thing was that it chose to shut down Inland innovation. When the companies that have received loans make an exit, that money will be incorporated into Saminvest. They will therefore not be reinvested in northern Sweden, Värmland and Dalarna, as it was originally intended with Inlandsinnovation. This effort came about because it was seen that these were weaker markets where the banks are not always available to lend money, and if they do, it is at usury rates. Unfortunately, the government did not want the company Saminvest to focus specifically on these vulnerable areas; it simply said no to this. Instead, a short time ago the newspaper was published. Mikael Damberg spoke in Västerbottensmedia and said that now the Norrland Fund would receive a supplement of 200 million. That's great; it's more than welcome. But the problem is when the government starts to dribble the cards and says that this addition comes because it wants to invest in the northern companies. You give back a tenth and you take nine tenths, that is, almost 2 000 million. I think that is important to bear in mind. I must also, Madam President, speak a little about the renewable energy that comes from hydroelectric power in the north. It is produced locally but is one of the most important prerequisites for Sweden's common welfare. I have said it before and say it again, because it is not so often talked about northern Sweden, Norrbotten and Jokkmokk in this speaker's chair. There are eleven hydro power plants in Jokkmokk municipality. The largest, Harspånget, is also located in the municipality. Much of Sweden's economy comes from hydropower, where Jokkmokk contributes a great deal. We also get a lot of energy from this renewable source. At the same time, about a year ago, a discussion was started about 30 jobs at the administrative unit in Jokkmokk to move, according to Vattenfall. There are not a lot of jobs in Jokkmokk, and this corresponds to thousands of jobs in Stockholm municipality. The reason the national media didn't mention this is that 30 jobs don't sound like much, but for Jokkmokk's municipality it means a lot – especially because there are many women who work there. There are not so many other jobs that you can apply for. In addition, you may have a partner who works in a mine or somewhere else and weekly commutes, and then it's easy to take your pick and pack and move away from there. Then the municipality has lost even more. Vattenfall then promised that there would be replacement jobs for Jokkmokk. We haven't seen the smoke of them yet, but they've been promised to come. If you ask me personally, I think that, given the large resources that Jokkmokk actually contributes, it would be only morally right for Vattenfall to let the municipality retain these jobs and also get the replacement jobs. Finally, I do not think it is acceptable that a state-owned company with such large assets in this part of the country should not hesitate to move jobs out of it. These jobs now end up in India, and I think that says quite a lot. When even the state's wholly owned companies find it too expensive to have employees in Sweden and move them to India, it says quite a lot about the conditions for companies in the Swedish labour market.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-60	Madam President, I would like I will begin by stating that, as we now go through the NU4 State-owned enterprises report, the differences in the perception of how the state should manage and govern its companies are once again evident. The report contains a lovely mix of the government's letters of 2017's report on state-owned companies and the Swedish National Audit Office's report on state-owned companies. It is also, of course, a general matter of state companies and the sports that have taken place during the general exercise period. However, I am not going to go into government letters and these statements, as we have unanimously supported them. The Left Party believes that the state should use its ownership of state companies to serve societal purposes. The requirement for profitability in state-owned companies should not take precedence over social benefits. We believe that the social benefits should always be the focus of the ownership strategy, while the companies are of course run economically efficiently. If Sweden is to be able to stay together and create conditions for development throughout the country, there must be equal basic conditions regardless of where you live. The state companies are owned jointly by the citizens and therefore, in my opinion, have a special responsibility for people throughout the country to have the same access to services, healthcare and other essential functions. I would like to give an example where the demand for profit will not be the best for the benefit of society. SJ AB is obliged by the State to generate business profit and has in addition a return requirement that requires the State to pay dividends to the Treasury on the reported net profit. The demand for return leads to a strong focus on creating profit. SJ AB is thus forced to look at market shares in a tight profit maximization. This does not give priority to the needs of travellers. In recent times, for example, the company has decided to remove the sale of foreign trips over the counter and have implemented restrictions on sleeping carriage traffic. The fragmentation of the railway system has generally led to a variety of companies whose driving force is profit maximization for each unit. With such a system, rail drop-off facilities can be priced so that they are not used, and plough trains can be rented out as freight trains because it pays better. A well-functioning infrastructure is crucial for industry and exports as well as for regional development and people's travel. In our view, a well-functioning and well-developed rail transport system that puts passengers at the centre is of central importance for achieving a sustainable transport system for the whole country. However, such a focus requires that SJ AB be given the opportunity to prioritise social benefits before short-term profit interests. The social benefits are nobody's responsibility in the current situation, and taxpayers risk being able to bear the costs that operators can escape in the long term. The demand for return also disadvantages regional development, as SJ is forced to opt out of low-traffic routes. Many travelers therefore have to choose a flight or a car instead. The effect is completely unreasonable if we want to reduce climate impact. If SJ had not had a return requirement, the company would be able to lower the prices of tickets and improve service and thus prioritise the public benefit. Madam President, I would like We have a reservation on the subject of SJ AB, but with agreed rules I am instead highlighting another reservation, which I will raise later in my speech. Of course, I support all our reservations. I will take another example of how the state as owner could give back some of the nature that we have exploited in our journey towards the fantastic welfare country that Sweden is. The left side thinks the hydropower is amazing. It is a part of which, together with the forest and the mines, has contributed to the well-being that we can enjoy. The Left Party wants to see strong hydropower production combined with biodiversity and environmental objectives. But this requires long-term rules for both industry and energy producers, as well as clear political demands. One example of how different interests could be combined in hydropower production is Letsi power station, owned by Vattenfall and located in Jokkmokk municipality between Jokkmokk and Vuollerim. In order to use a higher drop height and thus increase the effect, the water has been diverted through a tunnel in the mountain. The result is one of Europe's longest dried rivers, at 17 kilometres. However, it is possible to restore some of the water flow with relatively small means, thus restoring some life in the dried riverbed. By allowing a few percent of the total flow to go above ground, one could give life to the riverbed, which could benefit biodiversity as well as fishing, tourism and the local community. The Left Party and I therefore believe that Vattenfall should be charged with investigating the investment costs of returning an ecologically sustainable flow of water to the dry part of the Lilla Lule River. There are certainly modern solutions that could also contribute with production in the tap water while the devastated river channel would live. Here it is perfectly appropriate, Madam President, for me to ask for the approval of reservation 13. There is much to be said about the state as owner of company or property. What I find strange, however, is that Parliament is not interested in knowing the results of sales made. In 2002, the Swedish Parliament decided that Sveaskog would sell 5-10 per cent of land in favour of rural development. Good enough, and the thought and arguments are good. With these entrances began the sale of state forest holdings. But what about it? Were the target groups adopted in the parliamentary decision sold? Was there a strengthening of rural livelihoods? No evaluation has been made, and apparently Parliament is not interested in it either. The same applies to the sale of companies or parts thereof by the Government. I agree that the state should not be involved in activities that others can do better or more effectively. But this is not the case with all liberalisations and sales. You can read in the bourgeois movements that they like to see the state not being the owner, for example SBAB, who was up here in the debate. We heard in the speech that they want to sell SBAB. Then it is clear that the money will be used to pay off the public debt. A quick analysis could say that it makes sense. But when the deficit then arises the following year, since one has only focused on reducing taxes on those who earn the most, the consequences are that one borrows again. Total space: The company and the properties owned by the state are gone. The rich have become even richer, and the loans are back at the same amount. In short, that is what tends to be the consequences of bourgeois politics. Madam President, I would like I listened to Ulf Kristersson's speech when he became newly elected party leader for the Moderates. He said something in the sense that he intends to address the positive qualities or arguments of his opponents. Rather, he called for an adulter or kinder tone in debates, as I understood it. Now I shall try to do the same, Madam President. Lars Beckman, moderate member of parliament, writes in an individual motion that it would be desirable for the government to review whether it is possible to have the head office of state-owned companies located outside the major cities. In his motion, he describes Vattenfall as an example of a company that might consider having its head office close to its production units. I could personally sign anything he writes in the exercise. I do not agree with everything Mr Beckman writes or thinks, but in the case of headquarters, I say briefly: It is good thought by a moderate Member of Parliament!
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-77	Madam President, I would like The Liberals are the Social Liberal Party of Sweden. Our party rests on an idea to keep two thoughts in its head at the same time. We have both a social perspective, to protect the weakest in society, and a liberal perspective, because we love to see independent individuals grow, develop and start businesses. The combination of these two perspectives into a well-balanced whole is the foundation of social liberalism. In the balance between the social and the liberal, we have unfailing optimism and confidence in man and the society that we have created together to uphold citizens' rights and freedoms. We believe in man, and we believe that market economy is one of the main forms of individual self-realization. We believe in a market economy that is strengthened by certain means of control and a public framework if confidence between the individual and the market is put at risk. We see the value of a strong public sector, but in our society the state does not operate its own companies that risk leading to distorted competition. The task of the State is to eliminate market forces, not to try to intrude and disrupt them. In our perspective, it can never be the task of the state to own and operate companies. The task of the State is to set out the framework and rules that apply to business and businesses – not to own them. Madam President, I would like People who dare to take risks and realize their dreams are amazing people. The state should be there for them as a safety net if the entrepreneur's dreams do not come true. The state should not lay hookbones for entrepreneurs or use its extensive resources to run businesses and compete with these very fantastic entrepreneurs. I have been an entrepreneur and know many of the conditions that exist. It's a great joy, but I remember at the same time the times when it was hard to work and create growth in Sweden, the times when you not only had to push against the heavy regulatory burden but also witnessed unfair competition from public companies in a private market. In my home country, there are countless examples of public activities that are, at best, a waste of taxpayers' money and, at worst, a directly anti-business activity that knocks out and drains the small business community. One can consider why one takes the risk of opening a gym, for example, when the municipal swimming pool gym is allowed to go with great loss year after year. That doesn't make any sense. Ladies and gentlemen, I realise that the problem is not that there are public companies, but the problem is when, as politicians, you run companies with tax revenue for your own pleasure. One concrete example is the interpreting agency in Västra Götaland, which has recently been started. As a public operator, the private companies that have been there have been wiped out. As public actors, we need to be vigilant about the consequences of our actions that we repeatedly expose many smaller companies to when we start such activities. In this House today, we are debating the way in which state-owned companies are to be run. It cannot just happen with the perspective of creating long-term values and being an active, professional and responsible owner of these companies. We need to broaden the perspective: how are the companies that exist in these markets affected? For example, one might ask whether we as a state should own an airline that flies people to holiday destinations – sometimes it is a State Secretary who wants some additional holiday days. Does the state have to own a train operator who sometimes engages in noisy lobbies against its owner? Does the state have to own real estate companies and do its best to get as large a dividend as possible in these real estate companies while at the same time pursuing a profit hunt? One might ask whether it is a social mission that these companies have or whether it is others who can handle those tasks much better. We Liberals take a very positive view of the sales made so far by the government and note that it is thanks to the market opposition in the Left Party that sales have been made possible. These are certainly remarkable times when the government with one hand receives profits from companies owned by the public and with the other trying to ban profits in the private companies operating in the public sector. Having said that, I and the Liberals can say that the state will remain a major shareholder for a long time to come. Ownership shall then take place in an exemplary manner. The state-owned companies should focus on creating long-term values, and the public should be an active and responsible owner of these companies. In cases where the companies have a social mission, this should of course be done well. At the same time, state-owned companies will lead by the good example and take the lead in terms of sustainability, transparency and an inclusive business environment. The reforms of the Alliance government in the Global Reporting Initiative, for example, should continue, as should the work on a more even recruitment of the board in terms of experience, background, age and gender. To conclude, I will comment only on one colleague's speech. Birger Lahti mentioned that he would like to see Vattenfall relocate its office so that it gets close to the production facilities that exist. I welcome that, of course. Vattenfall is welcome to locate its office so that it ends up where it once began: in Trollhättan. Waterfall comes from Trollhättan. I call for both alliance reservations to be approved.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-91	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Said, for your speech. You said in your speech that you do not want the state to be an actor where it disrupts the market. There are private operators who are disturbed by the state as owners. Then I ask: Do you not think that the state is suitable as the owner of a bank, for example? Then I have one more question. It does not really concern state-owned companies or companies. But you brought this up yourself with profits in welfare. Do you think it's okay that 4 – 5 billion of taxpayers' money is lost in profit and that much of this is not taxed in Sweden? You think that's okay? These are two simple questions.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-94	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Birger. Of course, I find it problematic that we have such a large public ownership in Sweden. I tried to be clear about that. I see it as an anomaly. But at the same time, I see that there is a community mission that we need to provide throughout the country. But it's still an exception and an anomaly. For example, I cannot understand why a hotel should now be built in Trollhättan. There are several hotels. Why build a hotel with taxpayers' money when there are already several commercial hotels? In Trollhättan, we have students who do not perform in school. We have an alienation area. It is the second most segregated city in Sweden. And yet you're supposed to spend money building a hotel. For me, this is a completely unreasonable political priority. We want to focus on what is our core business. That's my point. I do not think that we should be the owner of a bank – I say that in answer to that question. I do not think that the problem of welfare gains is the gains themselves. I believe that, as public politicians and representatives, we have failed to do something. We have not steered up the regulations and control mechanisms that may exist in these sectors. We have, for example, the financial sector. When that market was opened, there were a lot of different rules that came into being to get governance in that area. We should have done this – and we should do it – in this sector. The problem is not profits. The problem is that children receive a poor education. It is the schools that do not deliver the knowledge that we want our children to have that should close, not those who deliver profit, like English school.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-97	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answers, Said! What puzzles me is that you're saying that the problem is not profit. I agree that quality is important. But for me it is a problem of 4 – 5 billion of the money intended for the business does not end up in the business. That's a problem for me. I'm surprised you don't think it's a problem that 4 to 5 billion of the money disappears. You say you don't think the government should be the owner of a bank. Tell me how it would distort competition that the state is the owner of a bank! When your party was in government position, you sold Nordea for a total of over SEK 60 billion. You sold government companies for over 160 billion. You did bad business with 100 billion. You're saying you're going to pay off your debt. Yes, but by the time you resigned, the public debt had increased. You left a deficit behind you. The total amount of space meant the policy you stand for, Said, that those who already had much got even more. Government debt had grown a little bigger. We had lost what you sold for 160 billion, what we owned together. I just want to hear: how can you defend these pieces? It's okay to say, let's get rid of the public debt. But you made tax cuts with that money. When that money wasn't enough, you borrowed it back. The loans were the same size. They had sold 160 billion of what we owned together. We were on the same square. Tell me how you might think it's defensible!
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-101	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the line shift, Birger! I would have liked to ask a supplementary question to your question. But the first thought I have after being asked is this: Is Birger's view that we should not have private banks? Is it the idea that it is we from the public sector who should conduct banking? If that is the conclusion of this argument, I am deeply concerned. On the other hand, we have different ideological views on these issues. I think it was the right balance when we made a sale of the shares we had in Nordea. It was a very well-priority divestment of state ownership, and I would like to see us redeploy priorities in the other companies in a forthcoming review. As I said, it is not correct that we should be both players and judges when it comes to these issues. We are going to set the framework, and we are going to put the regulations we want in the banking market, for example, which is international. We as political representatives have the mandate to run the market, but we should not play the game ourselves. Mr Birger Lahti is in the middle of a debate on welfare gains, in which we are instead discussing a symptom or possibly profits. However, I would say that the profits should show that there is room in these activities to hopefully run a good school, as the English school does, and make a profit. The question is: Why does the school not succeed in Rosengård? Why did they have to shut down school in Rosengård? It is very worrying for me, and I would have liked us to be able to debate those issues much more. I want our children to have a good education, no matter who's the actor.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-107	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservations 1, 3 and 11. The ability of companies to find venture capital for good market conditions is often a key factor in securing business opportunities to develop, grow and create new jobs. We Christian Democrats believe that it is mainly private capital that should be put at risk when companies are set up and developed, whether they are listed groups, medium-sized enterprises in the growth phase or business ideas in the early stages. However, there is also a need for state-owned market-supplementary efforts. The restructured state venture capital through the fund-in-fund solution Saminvest AB has, however, gone very slowly. In the spring of 2016, I agreed to change the structure of government funding efforts and to set up this new state-owned company, Saminvest. This also changed the conditions for Fouriertransform and Inland Innovation, which a colleague from the Center Party spoke about earlier. Since then, we Christian Democrats have argued that it has been important to continue to take advantage of the expertise that these two companies have accumulated over the years around capital in the automotive industry and, not least, for Inland innovation, in the geographical area when it comes to the northern parts of Sweden. The Norrland Fund is another part of this business that Saminvest is not, and I remember that we had a discussion about what would actually be included in Saminvest. If we were to redo the whole state venture capital, what would it look like? As I said, it has not yet happened either. The closure of these, nowadays, the Inland Innovation and Fouriertransform subsidiaries has neither changed the pace of new initiatives nor has it taken advantage of the expertise gained. So, at this point, I am prepared to ask the question: What exactly is Saminvest for? This is a very important issue, because it is about an incredible amount of money. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats consider this by reviewing public activities and how they are motivated over time to be very important. The Swedish State currently owns 48 companies, of which a decision has been made to sell some. In the report we see that eight are currently approved for disposal. Every Member of Parliament and every citizen should consider whether all these activities are appropriate for the state to own. In fact, the presence of companies in several markets is in danger of unfair competition. Despite the fact that we have legislation that will ban state-owned companies from distorting competition and exploiting their position, we have in recent years been able to see a trend with a widening of activities that risk taking market shares at the expense of private operators. The behaviour of state-owned companies is therefore in danger of breaching the competition law, while at the same time increasing the State's influence on commercial markets. It is a development contrary to the Christian Democrats' view of state ownership. In recent years, public authorities have also taken major steps in the open market by participating in procurements of goods and services. There I give a touch of sleven to all of our party colleagues out in municipalities and county councils who think that they are doing fantastic good activities but do not have the idea that they can at the same time knock away the legs of existing private actors who operate in exactly the same area. This is serious, because we cannot at the same time say that it is important that it is started and run new companies and that anyone can do so in Sweden. The American dream has turned into the Swedish dream. But it is certainly not a nice dream you get into if you at the same time get an entire municipality with real strength behind it as a competitor. In Landskrona, for example, you choose to start a municipal laundry. I almost waited for the state to do so, and it has in fact almost already been done – but not in company form. Instead, it chooses to allow the Prison Service to enter the open market and offer laundry services with such low bids that municipalities and county councils choose to take these tenders without seeing the consequences for jobs and private companies. I think this is extremely serious. Companies should be companies, authorities should be government agencies and you should not play shop if you can't run a business. Even when I was a kid and had a toy store with a small cash register and a small shopping cart, where apples and pears could be added, it didn't work out to go to the cashier and pay for themselves. But that is what you do in these public activities when you do not take responsibility for the fact that those who have actually produced the goods and provided the store with them may not get paid. The Minister for Economic Affairs, who is responsible for the ownership policy of the state ownership of the companies, and the Minister for Financial Markets and Consumer Affairs, who is responsible for managing them, should consider how to avoid the risk of competition to a greater extent. Among the state-owned companies, for example, we have Infranord AB, who works with construction work, and how many do not? We have Swedesurvey, who works with surveying services abroad, and so we have my favorite: the Russian company owned with the city of St Petersburg. I have spoken of the latter a number of times before, but I have never been able to get an answer to what it is that makes us still think that this particular company is worth having. For what profit and for what social benefit do we have? We have also seen a trend with state-owned companies that create in-house businesses that operate in the open market, and that is not in line with the companies' mandates, we believe. It may be interesting to have a transparent review of the activities of state-owned companies in the form of internal business development that extends outwards, towards and in competition with other actors. In this respect, we believe that all authorities should also review which activities are competing with private companies. It is the public's job to have some kind of interest in society, I think. It is important to remember that it should be a strategically important ownership. There should be a point in owning it for infrastructure, for security reasons or for something else that means that in times of crisis, for example, we should have special benefit from these companies. Madam President, I would like Finally, not everything may be owned by the State, but what is owned by the State should not, in any case, compete with private activities.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-130	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Penilla, for your speech. I reacted when you talked about playing shop. I'll give you an example where you can tell me if you think, like me, that it's like playing shop. When pharmacy operations were liberalised, pharmacies appeared a little everywhere. You can look at what happened. Distributing medicines, which was the task of the state, has become more expensive. And we have pharmacies around every corner here in Stockholm. But do you think that those who run pharmacies, whose customers are close and have good market shares, would open a pharmacy in my neighborhood, for example? This is something you might call, as you said, playing shop – playing shop with society's money where liberalisation would not have been necessary. I have one more question. We were both at a seminar this morning on mining operations. If the state had not been the owner of LKAB when the crisis came in 1982–1983 and the state scrounged out in the money of that time about one and a half billion, do you think that in the early 80's they would have found that money if private operators had owned LKAB? It didn't look bright. And do you think the private owners, if the mine had survived at all, would have moved the city of Kiruna, as they do today?
i-GTDaceCrND2VuiT56ZKDx1	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Birger, for the questions. When it comes to pharmacies, I am very happy that we can now buy Ipren, nasal drops and other things at Hemköp, at the gas station or where it can now be at times that we could not before. Studies have shown that it has received more centrally located pharmacies than ever before, and not least more pharmacies. This means that when there are more activities, which are also exposed to competition, pricing will also be different. You have to realize that. It is also the case that private businesses, which do not receive operating aid, still have to withdraw money so that it becomes profitable to have them. If, now, this support, which both the former and the present government have put out to commercial operators in rural areas, had been able to go to this type of, as I think, socially important activity through the possibility of operating pharmacies in not least smaller locations, we would really have benefited twice from the funds. As I understand it, you cannot accept the funds, because then it goes against state aid rules and becomes a lot of discussions about what types of activities you can support. But just as hard as creating a service point somewhere is being able to have a well developed pharmacy. Fortunately, there are also opportunities to get medicine sent home today. But that does not prevent us from wanting live business and businesses in the small towns.
i-XEHTvFkirTwegsEf34cfTc	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Penilla, for your answer. Pharmacy reps we've had before. I agree that you should be able to collect simpler medicines. Already 30 years ago we had busses that delivered medicines, so that's nothing new. But don't tell me that there was better service in the countryside after the pharmacy business was liberalised! It was not – quite the opposite. But here in Stockholm and the big cities you can find a pharmacy as soon as you walk around the corner. That is where they established themselves, but if they had to take responsibility in rural areas, it would not be interesting. That part of the liberalisation has not contributed to the fact that the whole of Sweden would have had better pharmacy activities, certainly not. I agree that it is a good thing that businesses can provide over-the-counter medicines, but they have also been able to do so in the past. The ombudsmen have been around all along. Nevertheless, I thank you for your answer.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-140	Madam President, I would like It was not that easy to buy medicines without a prescription before there were changes not many years ago. Regardless of this, I maintain my view that it could have been possible to do much more with the funds invested in actors to enable them to carry out activities in rural areas. I am convinced of that, so we do not really have the opposite view. As I said, this only applies to how to deal with this type of aid. To go into your second question, Birger Lahti, about LKAB, you are absolutely right. A government owner of the large mining company that LKAB is was really needed to make those investments. There is no private owner at present or has existed before that has had economic muscles to do what LKAB is doing today. There is a difference in other countries, where there has been another legislation on mining management and, not least, ownership of such licensed activities and so on. From the outset, there have been other opportunities to make this type of investment over time. But it has not been possible to do so here without state ownership. I'm sure of it. When it comes to exploration for new businesses, however, I am keen that companies should dare to start and run operations in Sweden that make it sustainable over time, environmentally, economically and socially. I think LKAB takes a very large and good responsibility where you are today. But also let other companies go in and take the same responsibility if they want to invest money in being in our country!
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-144	Madam President, I would like The state-owned companies form a significant part of the Swedish business community and play important roles in society. During the visits that I myself make to state-owned companies and at the talks and meetings I have with employees at different levels, the pride of representing a company that is ultimately owned by the Swedish people is evident. With this comes responsibility and respect for the mission, and the activities carried out on the basis of the common good. Their importance for overall competitiveness should be emphasised, and they should be at the forefront of sustainable development, innovation, gender equality and responsibility. The report before the House today contains the government's letters on state-owned companies in 2017 and the Swedish National Audit Office's report on state-owned companies. The case also deals with 44 motion requests for state-owned companies from general exercise time. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal to add the letter from the Government and the National Audit Office's report to the record and reject the motions. As we have heard, there are 48 wholly owned or partly owned companies in the company portfolio, two of which are listed. The majority of them operate on a commercial basis and operate in fully competitive markets. Some of the companies have specifically decided community assignments, but most of the companies do not. The committee welcomes the fact that the Government has developed the content of the annual letter that we have received and underlines the importance of continuing this work. In the letter, the Government examines the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the timeliness, motives, purpose and objectives of state-owned holdings. The letter also describes the content of the activity report. It provides information on administrative and internal costs. It also describes how the process of nomination of board members is structured. Other sections deal with economic objectives and sustainability work that is an integral part of the business. Madam President, I would like The state-owned companies are working to be at the forefront of sustainable entrepreneurship in social, economic and climate policy. Digitalisation is also a tangible development engine. In this context, let me exemplify some companies' activities in these areas. LKAB, Sweden's oldest state-owned company, works forward-looking and development-oriented. The company's sustainability work has been synchronised with the UN's Agenda 2030, and a new human rights policy, an updated code of conduct and new management philosophy have been developed. LKAB, together with SSAB and Vattenfall, has decided on an initiative for a future completely chlorine-free steel industry with hydrogen as a reducing agent instead of fossil carbon.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-156	During the past year, Svenska Spel was the company that recorded the strongest result. Games under orderly forms with social responsibility are included in the mission. The concern for the customer and the desire to minimize the negative effects of gambling is an obvious part of the business. Significant efforts are also being made to support Swedish sports and youth development in various ways. Vattenfall launched partner-based charging network. Together with partners in Sweden and Europe, Vattenfall is building the Incharge charging network with thousands of chargers for electric cars. This will make it easy for companies, municipalities and local energy companies to offer electric car charging for more drivers. Vattenfall has also joined the Government's 100-club initiative together with Postnord, Apoteket and Lernia. This means that the companies will receive 100 new arrivals each for three years and through different types of internship offer an introduction to the Swedish labour market. Almi has signed an agreement with the Swedish Agency for Growth on a green venture capital fund. The focus of the fund is green tech, green technology. Co-funders are the National Energy Agency and the European Regional Development Fund. Apoteket was named Sweden's most sustainable company in 2017. More than 11,000 customers had to assess how Sweden's 286 largest companies perform in the field of environmental and social responsibility. Other state-owned companies that placed themselves high in this ranking were Systembolaget as No 8, SJ as No 11 and Pharmacy Group as No 17. Systembolaget started a collaboration with Arbetsförmedlingen to offer internships and subsidised employment to people with disabilities. The collaboration is based on Systembolaget's employees to reflect society as a whole and to reduce exclusion. An interesting newcomer among state companies is, as mentioned, Saminvest AB. It was established during the past year and will finance innovative companies with the potential to grow through investments in funds in collaboration with private stakeholders. For the Swedish part it is about a new venture, but similar models exist in Denmark, Germany with more countries. The focus has also been Postnord. The government's successful negotiations in an extremely difficult situation, caused by the freezes on ownership in the merger by the previous government, allow a new chapter to be opened for the company. Major challenges remain, but there is room for manoeuvre to look ahead and take new steps. Madam President, I would like Equality is a matter of course. The state's companies have taken this very seriously and have in recent years put a lot of effort into achieving gender equality in the appointment of management personnel. In this context, there is still a great deal to be done in other listed companies in order to reach levels similar to those of state-owned companies in this area. But that's how it's supposed to be. The state must be a good and forward-looking owner. Madam President, I would like The debate on state ownership often raises questions about how active ownership should be exercised. Public opinion is often raised and proposals are made for ownership to be of a more operational nature. We have also heard that today. These can be local conditions, regional perspectives, returns or individual issues. Some exercise highlights these phenomena. It is, of course, a good thing that the activities of state-owned companies are subject to commitment and forward-looking debate. In a motion from the whole bourgeoisie, one goes in the opposite direction and wants to sell out, privatize, most of the state-owned companies – at least those who lack special social mission. Perhaps LKAB, Vattenfall's Nordic operations, Apoteket and possibly Systembolaget are the only ones that will eventually remain as state-owned companies if this exercise is realized. Surely it is refreshing to have a critical attitude and not to see state ownership as an end in itself. In this case, however, we are talking about far-reaching privatisations, which I believe would put Swedish jobs, development and growth at a disadvantage. The state-owned companies are to be seen as an asset for the Swedish people, and they will continue to contribute to our community building for many years to come.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-168	Madam President, I would like PerPer-Arne Håkansson told us that he had been out at the state companies and businesses and felt the pride that is there. It is good and important that you enjoy your workplace and that you see prospects and opportunities. How does Per-Per-Arne Håkansson see all the signals that have come in, and what does he have to say to all those who are still sitting in a culture of silence and in a cover-up? This concerns the Swedish Transport Agency's handling of its information, mute cultures that we have seen about on television and, most recently, sexual harassment. Transparency, equality, tolerance and respect are extremely important. How does Per-Arne Håkansson's party intend to act? It feels like an examination of more than one area in the state's activities is needed to deal with this and be an example. PerPer-Arne Håkansson also mentioned Systembolaget and Arbetsförmedlingen's fantastic collaboration. It would be great if the Arbetsförmedlingen could also deliver to the private. Among other things, the trade association Visita is looking for chefs, which is lacking. There is a demand for labour, and there are training courses. But here the Arbetsförmedlingen has not been able to deliver. I hope it's taken care of. Last but certainly not least: PerPer-Arne Håkansson shows pride in biofuel and aviation. Maybe this is what we should do. SEK 60 in air tax, as you are talking about, means for Visby Airport 29 800 000 minus.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-174	Madam President, I would like There are some issues to catch up on and I understand that Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has been involved in different ways. When it comes to the first, it is obviously important that society as a whole – the state companies and the government but also private companies – take these events, situations and conditions very seriously, as Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has described. This has been done with strength, both in the former, the Swedish Transport Agency, and in the latter event related to the Royal Opera and the Dramatic Theatre. It has acted with clarity and strength directly and has highlighted how the focus of these activities should be in the future. There has also been a constructive approach to how to move forward. As far as the issue of air tax is concerned, it is, as I understand it, off the agenda at the moment. The important thing, as I see it, is that aviation becomes part of sustainable development. Much is also being done about the development of fossil-free fuel on the airside, which is a good thing. Arbetsförmedlingen has a mission to convey work, and there are activities around this, not least in collaboration with municipalities and companies in several places in Sweden. The investment in extra services that has now been made is an example of when stepping up the work that Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson is calling for.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-178	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Per-Per-Arne Håkansson! I would like to add something to the discussion on what is needed and on the functioning of the activities, both in the case of individuals who are in contact with authorities and in the case of entrepreneurs. For example, we have the case of the person who could not get his driving licence because she had too long an address and was asked to change it. It is to be hoped that this was a small phenomenon, but for the rider involved it may be the whole operation, which can fail. It is very important that you have an understanding and understand what you do when you sit on your job. I think these are very strange signals that are given when there is such news. As far as the airline tax is concerned, I said there would be nothing about it, but it could have been. Then what would it have been? Well, you pull in where you have a little lower cost of flying, with good fuel. We're talking technology development. Now Birger Lahti cannot answer, but the Left Party thinks that the wrong people are always at a disadvantage. It had been just them that they had managed to cut back on, for it had been the flights in the middle of the day, when others could go – those who are going to loved ones and so on – who had been hit by such a proposal. If I understand correctly, it would not have been unsubstantiated if there had not been pressure from the opposition, so it was a good thing to seize that opportunity. Technological development is very important, but we always talk about what should not be. It seems that sometimes it is not technology that applies but something else, a form of ideology, instead of seeing what you can do – you can have drones and work with county boards. The development of technology is very important for the future, but it seems that you are working with parties that put an end to this.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-184	Madam President, I would like I listened carefully to the reasoning of Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, but I did not hear any arguments that would in any way point out that this type of problem had been less with reduced state ownership and more privatisation. On the contrary, I think it would have been worse, because then we would have had less opportunity to influence and act where it is needed. It is important that we have good control and order in the activities we carry out.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-185	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Per-Per-Arne Håkansson concerning SBAB. I wonder: Why should we own the state commercial bank SBAB when there are already many other commercial banks and when SBAB only operates in half of Sweden?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-187	Madam President, I would like SBAB is a well-managed bank that takes great social responsibility and also a major responsibility for the business you do. In addition to SBAB's mortgage business, it is possible to have savings accounts, where I think the interest rate is better than with many other banks. The state's starting point of control and ensuring that SBAB is well managed is important. We have seen how things have turned out for the banks from which the state has taken its hands entirely. Take the latest example with Nordea! It didn't take many years for the bank to leave the country. There is reason to reason on these arguments and see SBAB as an asset for Sweden and Swedish development.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-190	Madam President, I would like PerPer-Arne Håkansson is surely right that SBAB is well-managed and takes responsibility for the customers you have. The problem is that a state bank only decided to ignore half of Sweden and that the companies and people located north of Dalälven are not interesting, but they should work in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and the larger university towns south. Taking a social responsibility rhymes quite badly with leaving half the country to its fate. It is so that in the north of Sweden it is very difficult to borrow money from the bank. There is very little venture capital, and it is vulnerable. This is a major challenge for companies in that part of the country. I do not know if I agree with Per-Per-Arne Håkansson that the state bank takes social responsibility when one actually ignores half of Sweden. I want an answer to this: Is it really taking great social responsibility when you ignore the people who live north of Dalälven?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-193	Madam President, I would like I think Helena Lindahl uses a little too brutal expression in this context. There is nothing in SBAB's information material to exclude certain parts of the country. I find it hard to see that something would change if we chose to privatize SBAB. The risk is that it had not been at all the development that Helena Lindahl strives for. I think it is better to have ownership dialogue and talks based on the position we have as a state in order to make progress on these issues.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-195	Madam President, I would like The starting point for the state to own companies is that ownership can contribute to a social development that is not based solely on profit. Government companies can and should contribute to a better society through greater social and environmental responsibility. I therefore believe that state ownership requires a great deal of commitment and clear objectives. On both these points there is a great deal of commitment from the Red-Green Government. The government has worked for the state to be an active owner and a professional manager so that the state companies provide good returns to the Swedish people. For the state as owner, it is central that the companies conduct their business in order to achieve long-term value creation. It is important to give the companies the opportunity to develop and grow and to create value for the owner with a balanced risk-taking. The active management shall be carried out in a professional manner, and value creation shall be the overall objective. The Green Party has for a long time been pushing the question that state companies should be forerunners when it comes to sustainable development. The government also delivers on this point. The government has made it clear that proactive and integrated sustainability work contributes positively to the companies' development. This is crucial for a good ownership leadership. The fact that the government's corporate portfolio is a large and important part of Swedish business can serve as a good example for other companies. Areas where we in the governance of the state-owned companies have preceded are, as has been mentioned earlier, requirements for sustainability reporting and clarification of expectations of the companies' work regarding sustainability and specifically the Paris Agreement. The Government has increased the ambition of the companies' work by including Agenda 2030 and the global sustainability goals in the ownership policy to guide the companies in their work together with the international guidelines. Strategic sustainability work is something that is clearly visible in the companies, and it is proof that we are really heading in the right direction in this work. Let me take a clear example. In recent years Samhall has worked with its sustainability work in the environmental, social and economic fields in a targeted and strategic manner. We can clearly see the effect of this. This has led to a clear reduction in CO2 emissions, a 20% reduction in energy use and an almost full gender balance among employees, and tens of thousands of jobs have been created for people who would otherwise be far from the labour market. Two years ago they received the European Business Awards for Europe's most sustainable companies, and this year Samhall was also nominated for the Sustainable Leadership Award, awarded by business environmental managers. This is yet another proof that we are heading in the right direction and that the state companies are making a difference. In particular, the Green Party has pushed the issue of equality in companies. The state should of course be a good example in this regard too. More women in leading positions means greater diversity and better opportunities to achieve equal pay and conditions in general. This is a work that the Red-Green Government has now intensified. This is done, among other things, by working with corporate governance to achieve a balanced gender balance in senior positions in the state companies. The recently decided ownership policy contains several requirements in the field of gender equality, which are imposed on state companies. This concerns work on board recruitment, which aims to ensure an even composition of boards. It is clear, for example, that uniform and common principles for a structured board nomination process for companies with state ownership should be applied and that the proportion of women and men on boards should be at least 40%. The Government Office's work with the nomination process also includes an ongoing evaluation of all companies' boards. Madam President, I would like I feel confident with the responsibility that state-owned companies today take for our common well-being and for our environmental and climate challenges. It is clear that the companies are making important sustainability footprints. We can see hydropower companies in a joint initiative for a better water environment. We can see how SSAB, LKAB and Vattenfall have formed a joint company to continue to drive the Hybrid initiative forward, for fossil-free steel production. We can see that Swedfund and Scania have now established a partnership to develop and promote the use of renewable fuel in India. We can also see that SJ was named Sweden's greenest brand last year. These were some examples that I chose to highlight in order to highlight the important work being done by state-owned companies. As I said, it makes me safe, and it shows that we are on the right track. I support the proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-208	Madam President, I would like I thank you, Mr Lorentz, for your speech. I reacted to the last thing you said about Vattenfall. Your party seriously betrayed the environment when it comes to lignite operations in Germany, given what your party has always stood for. You're highlighting good examples that I agree with. But I'd like to ask you a question about a motion that we've raised. I don't know if you've ever visited Vuollerim and Jokkmokk and the 17-km-drained riverbed. Nowhere else in the world can you see such a thing. What would it cost for Vattenfall to let 2 percent of the water drop — a stick, as they say? You could even use the water a little bit in the tunnel production when you drop it. We want it investigated. Isn't the Green Party at all interested in that? I don't hear anything about it. You highlighted Vattenfall, which is a state-owned company. One could clearly say with directives that Vattenfall will investigate this. How much would that cost? It would give some back to these places. Jokkmokk has eleven power stations that Vattenfall owns. Visit Vuollerim and Jokkmokk sometime if you haven't, so that you get a picture of this. How does the Green Party view this?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-211	Madam President, I would like I thank Birger Lahti for the question. There are, of course, several dilemmas regarding state ownership. One of the most fundamental is the balance between commercialism and different types of considerations. I can only say that Vattenfall is a typical example of a state-owned company that has made unsustainable investments for many years. This has happened mainly down on the continent of Europe. That is something that my party has opposed every time it has happened. We have also had to deal with this in a government position. At the same time, you and I know that we also need to take account of business. It often means that companies can make decisions that may feel wrong and that go against your party and my party. To change that, major changes are needed in ownership directives. If the ownership directives were to be taken up in Parliament, I am not so sure where it would land. Perhaps that would lead to an even worse situation.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-215	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. But there's one thing that's not right about what you told me about, Lorentz Tovatt. The government could have stopped lignite operations. It's come to light afterwards. You didn't have to come to Parliament. The government could have stopped the deal that Vattenfall did. So what you're saying is not true. A study on the costs of creating the conditions for draining water in the dry river channel between Vuollerim and Jokkmokk, which is included in our exercise, is also not something that could not be negotiated with Vattenfall. Your party often mentions biodiversity. You can use that word now if you want.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-218	Madam President, I would like I thank you, Birger Lahti, for this change of line. You highlight aspects that I, as a green, naturally passionate about and to a large extent agree with you. At the same time, we should be aware that the mandate that the government has to manage the state-owned companies comes from the Riksdag. There is a framework for what can actually be done within this mandate. It is clear that it was possible to take a special government decision and say no to a deal. Legally, it would have been possible to make such a decision. But it is a question of the parliamentary mandate on this issue, and it was very clear during the period when this decision was up to date that there was a completely different majority in Parliament. Then it was simply not possible to go this way. Having said that, I would like to say that I think your questions point to one of the major and important areas of discussion in the area of state ownership. It is precisely when ownership conflicts with other values. That is something that I think we need to discuss more.
i-AWzvLeWQ86xifhUkoEaSws	I would like to extend a warm welcome to the Ministers of State. Questions are answered today by Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson, Minister of State Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, Minister Åsa Regnér and Minister of the Environment Karolina Skog. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility. Police work environment and police presence throughout the country
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-223	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ylva Johansson. The crisis in Swedish police has not escaped anyone. The increasing level of crime means that resources are not enough, and this affects people living in rural areas and who have a long way to go to a police station. Unfortunately, most of Västmanland will become virtually empty of police officers in the future. One of the reasons is that the police feel insecure after the shooting at a policeman's home in Västerås. In addition, all crime prevention work is put on ice. The police themselves say that there will be major consequences for the county.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-226	Mr President, I would like to We need police officers, and we need more police officers to maintain security and law and order. Let me say that the attack on a police officer's home raised by Jessica Polfjärd is indeed a terrible crime, and it is very serious. Training cops takes time. We are now training more and more police officers, and we are also opening new police training courses to further develop even more police officers. We are making very substantial increases in resources to the police, already next year by over 2 billion and next year by up to 7 billion in new money for the police. We are therefore making great efforts to strengthen the police. It is about both training police officers and employing other staff who can relieve the police in order to get the necessary security throughout the country and in all counties, including Västmanland County.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-230	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his answer, although it does not really respond to what is being done today. We know that education takes time and that more police officers will continue to be needed in the future. The question remains: what is being done to ensure today that we have security to trust throughout the country?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-231	Mr President, I would like to Jessica Polfjärd also asks what we do for the working environment for the police. The government has made major investments in the work environment. Let me take a few examples. We have significantly increased our resources to the Swedish Work Environment Authority by over SEK 125 million annually. We have developed a new work environment strategy with, among other things, a zero vision against fatal accidents. We have also contributed resources to occupational health and safety research, and we will establish a new authority to disseminate knowledge about work environment work.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-233	Mr President, I would like to The latest national security survey was recently presented. It found that the number of victims of crime has increased from the previous measurement. One of the more serious crimes, which also shows the greatest increase, is the proportion of victims of sexual offences. The fact that the proportion of sexual offences has increased so strongly in recent years coincides well with the high profile sexual crimes associated with festivals and other public events. Mr President, I would like to In these contexts, young men of foreign background have been overrepresented among the perpetrators in the stories that have emerged. The Swedish Democrats are the only party in parliament that is pushing to give the Crime Prevention Council a new mission to map sexual crimes and origins. The Moderates have also shown support for such an investigation. However, this morning they asked for such a proposal to be rejected. Now that we have had such historically intense migration to Sweden, Ylva Johansson, is it not time to produce new statistics so that we can continue to fight sexual crimes with good evidence?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-236	Mr President, I would like to The latest national security survey shows a very serious increase in sexual offences. Against this background in particular, a pool of forces is needed to ensure that we can reverse developments and give women security not to have to be subjected to crimes and, if they do, that they are really being investigated and prosecuted so that the perpetrators are punished. We must have a reasonable way of dealing with this. Against this background, the government is planning one of the major reforms in the area of justice. One can expect a new bill to come in the near future, and it is about a new sex crime law. Among other things, we introduce consent. We are strengthening the position of victims, and we are taking several other measures to tackle a very serious development.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-238	Mr President, I would like to I can have some understanding that a government that is responsible for a failed migration policy does not want to produce statistics that confirm just that, but this is a course of action that is far from being responsible. As a government, content with the fact that men are the only common denominator among the perpetrators of sexual crimes also makes the efforts against sexual crimes extremely blunt. Not taking the facts seriously when it comes to sexual crimes is a clear betrayal of all those who are victims of such crimes.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-239	Mr President, I would like to It's about taking the crimes and the victims seriously. I do not think that any woman who is the victim of sexual abuse or rape will be happier to know that the offender's origin or ethnicity is known; we want to ensure that this does not happen. And if that happens, the offender will be punished. This is what the government intends to do.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-241	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Rural Minister Bucht. Swedish food production will increase. It will become more competitive, more sustainable and less vulnerable. This was decided by the Riksdag in June when the goals of the life strategy for 2030 were passed. However, many food chain entrepreneurs today feel that government contacts are more inhibiting than contributing to business development. Contacts with authorities should not be something that you as an entrepreneur fear. It is important that authorities not only have the task of controlling but also of supporting and contributing to development. In order for more people to want to start and run businesses in the food sector, it is important that the hassle, insecurity and administration are reduced. The processes need to be adapted to the reality of businesses, not to the authorities. More dialogue-based action is needed.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-246	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President, for the question. We have stated in the national food strategy that we will increase our food production, and that will be done in many different ways. It is about increasing the competitiveness of businesses and cutting red tape. It will be easier to start a business and to apply for a permit. In all of this there are many different parts. When it comes to simplification, for example, the Swedish Board of Agriculture has had a simplification journey. This has also been extended so that the Swedish Board of Agriculture does this together with the Swedish Plant Protection Agency and the Swedish Food Administration, so that they work together on the issues. There are many different parameters, but what is important now is that we increase our food production and do so in a sustainable way.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-250	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. What I am asking for are clear instructions from the government against the actions of the authorities. For example, there are already promotion assignments for the Swedish Board of Agriculture to contribute to the development of the industry. In connection with the decision in June, the Riksdag also decided that the Government should give a promotion mission to the authorities related to food-producing activities. Is this with promotion missions something that the government will do now that the regulatory letters are written?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-253	Mr President, I would like to I do not want to precede the regulatory letters that we are currently working on and that we are about to hand over to the authorities, but promotion issues are of course very important. Our authorities have also been given promotion missions in this regard. It is also very clear that the authorities are working intensively to implement the food strategy and have taken it into account in their daily and everyday work.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-255	Mr President, I would like to The Social Insurance Agency has temporarily suspended the two-year review of those who have personal assistance from the State. This has been incredibly important for those who were just in phase of having their assistance hours suspended. Some had already been told that this would happen. However, for all those who had just received the decision to suspend their assistance, the situation has not changed. For all those seeking for the first time, the situation has not changed either. It creates enormous inequality for people who have the same needs but now do not get the same rights. My question to the Government is: What is the government's response to all those who, despite this temporary respiratory solution, will not now receive the support they need?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-257	Mr President, I would like to I thank Emma Henriksson for the question. It is true that we are doing a number of things when it comes to personal assistance in a package that we recently presented. In order for people not to have their lives torn apart and to ensure that you do not have to feel the anxiety and unpredictability of a welfare legislation as important as this, we are restoring the judgment on waiting time and preparedness that fell in June. We are also legislating to freeze the two-year trial for persons with personal assistance. As Emma Henriksson knows, there have been a number of judgments that have changed case law for a number of years. In December, I will receive two briefings on the effects of some of these judges and on the actions of those who have not received state assistance. I'll get back to you then.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-259	Mr President, I would like to This temporary stop and these temporary solutions are, as I said, about this summer's judgment, but so far there is no news from the government that the same measures are being taken for the others and are implementing absolutely necessary legislative changes to give people what they are entitled to with regard to the previous judges. What is the answer to those very people, who are not helped by this temporary solution, but are not actually getting the support they need here and now?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-260	Mr President, I would like to We freeze the two-year trial for people who have personal assistance. As Emma Henriksson knows, this is a law of rights. In the event of a dispute as to the nature of the case, guidance decisions will fall, as the Authority does. Unlike the previous government, I have asked for an analysis of the effects of these judgments. I will get the result in December, and then I will come back to how we see it.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-261	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Mr Ylva Johansson, Minister for Labour and Establishment. Last week, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven and President of the European Commission Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker hosted an important summit in Gothenburg. At the summit, Heads of State and Government met the social partners and other key actors to discuss how to promote fair jobs and growth. In view of this, I wonder how the Government would describe the outcome of the summit.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-263	Mr President, I would like to It was a very good summit in Gothenburg. I would describe it as a great success. In principle, all EU Heads of State or Government and other EU leaders met. The big change was that after almost ten years of austerity and budgetary issues being at the top of the EU agenda, there is now agreement to put questions about reducing gaps at the top of the EU agenda. It is about the working and living conditions of ordinary people. After all, everyone understands that, of course, it is not the EU that has the main instruments for influencing people's working and living conditions; these are mainly at national level. For example, the social partners are important players in this. Therefore, the social partners also attended the meeting. We also had a Tripartite Social Summit the day before. They are important players in influencing people's working conditions.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-265	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. An important part of the discussion on the future of the European Union, as the Government has also pointed out, is how our societies can be better and equipped to respond to the challenges and opportunities of today and the future. It is about fair working conditions, inclusive growth, equal opportunities and a well-functioning social dialogue. From this point of view, I wonder how the issues of working and living conditions for ordinary people will be taken forward in EU cooperation.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-266	Mr President, I would like to As far as EU cooperation is concerned, the Commission has announced that the conclusions of the proclamation and the social pillar will be taken into account in work on the semester – which will soon be presented by the Commission – and the related issues. But I would like to stress again that each Member State must take the main responsibility for real progress in terms of people's working and living conditions and do so together with other actors, such as the social partners and in Sweden also municipalities and county councils.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-268	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has adopted very ambitious climate targets, and that is good, because the climate threat is acute. If we are to achieve the objectives, our actions must be climate-smart and effective. We do not have time to afford detours on our way to the climate targets. Today, the transport sector accounts for one third of emissions and the base industry for one third. In order to achieve the climate targets, therefore, strong reductions in emissions in these sectors are needed. There are exciting thoughts about, for example, fossil-free steel production, but the plans are well ahead of time. Leading climate scientists therefore believe that we need to invest in a technology to capture and take care of carbon dioxide, so-called CCS technology. I would therefore like to hear the Minister for the Environment's views on the possibilities of CCS.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-270	Mr President, I would like to It is always extremely gratifying to hear the repeated support from the Riksdag for an active climate policy, a repetition of the principles behind the Climate Act and, not least, a statement of urgency. We must act and involve all sectors of society in the work, including the process industry, which came surprisingly late on the track but is now really active. The Government has therefore taken the initiative for Industrikliv to work together with the process industry. In the international discussions there are also cautious nosing discussions as to whether the measures will be sufficient or whether we need to do more to strengthen soils' ability to manage carbon dioxide, possibly also by technical means. We do not yet have clear recommendations from the IPCC or our authorities to do so.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-272	Mr President, I would like to The Minister refers to the Industriklivet, but it is not yet anyone who really knows what it means. The Bankruptcy Institute has considered this to be an ineffective measure. We have listened to the leading climate scientists who advocate CCS technology. That is why we are making a special effort of 75 million for a CCS strategy. I hope the government also listens to these leading scientists.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-273	Mr President, I would like to It is really sad that the Moderates do not go with the government and the process industry in an initiative to aim really high and long and dare to start a job even though you do not know exactly where it lands. It is an incredibly high level of ambition to say that we should be able to have fossil-free steel in Sweden. No one in the world knows exactly what it looks like. But we have set a common goal and have started a joint effort. Why don't you come with us?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-275	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. Tomorrow, something called Black Friday begins. Then the whole of Sweden will go out as a man and a woman and consume at extra low prices. However, there are those who have to pay the price of ever-increasing consumption. For example, there are people in India, Bangladesh and China where a large part of our gadgets are manufactured and where emissions are increasingly taking place. If everyone consumed like us Swedes, we'd need four more globes. It's totally untenable. Scientists, environmental organisations and many others believe that an effective way of reducing emissions from our consumption would be to set measurable and follow-up targets for reducing consumption emissions.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-279	Mr President, I would like to I fully share Jens Holm's view that it is important that we not only discuss and have measures for the climate emissions and environmental emissions that arise from production that takes place in Sweden. It is also important that we take a closer look at the impact of the consumption taking place in Sweden. Many promote the idea of measurable and follow-up targets for that matter. Then it is important that we concentrate on the measurable. The government had an annex to the spring budget on that particular issue. We note that we do not yet have the means to measure this sufficiently so that we can set a target and know that we can measure it. We need to do basic work so that we can get a measurability. When we have it in place, I can definitely see that it may be time. I also hope that we can get a target in place.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-282	Mr President, I would like to I do not know whether all scientists and scientists agree with the Minister for the Environment in this regard. We know that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is already collecting data on emissions from our consumption. Unfortunately, when we in the Left Party last put forward a proposal that we should have measurable and follow-up targets for consumption emissions, the Green Party voted it down.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-285	Mr President, I would like to The government has taken initiatives that lay the foundation for moving forward and find methods where we measure the environmental impact of the consumption taking place in Sweden. Some of the assignments have gone to Statistics Sweden. As we now write regulatory letters, we look at who should take the next step forward. What is important is that we take clear steps forward and ensure that we get better methods in place. When we do, we will then analyse the political instruments.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-287	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Åsa. The Government constantly repeats that no political signals or decisions are behind the very negative changes that have taken place in personal assistance within the LSS. Only the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's legal assessments based on three judgments have been amended. The government started sending signals to the agency in autumn 2015, which was confirmed in writing in regulation letters for 2016, and the signals have since continued. The effects are clear. Last week, the Prime Minister had a press conference on possible legislative changes. It took Försäkringskassan about 24 hours to change its legal application and its procedures, this without anything really happened. My question is: Has the Government changed its perception of the meaning and significance of signal policy? What is the government's view of the real effects of the reductions?
i-5vdkxSYmxRyk5VuZgUCdR8	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Bengt Eliasson! For me, it is important that people have predictability and feel that important security systems are on their side and that they understand what they mean and what is to happen. One of these systems is personal assistance under the Act on Support and Service to Certain Disabled Persons. A number of judgments have been passed. It is not the government that has ruled the courts. Nor has the government guided the Authority's interpretation of the court rulings. The Constitution does not allow it to do so, nor has it done so. In addition, we have said that we freeze the two-year trials to reduce the effects of the sentences that have fallen and restore after the verdict that came this summer to reduce the effects. I think you are asking about the effects of the judgments that fell earlier than in June this year. I will have a basis in December on the effects of them. I will come back to that.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-296	Mr President, I would like to Have statements in the media by a judge of the Supreme Administrative Court had any bearing on the changed application of the Social Insurance Agency's law and the discrepancy that has now perhaps been revealed between judicial and enforcement powers? Has it affected the attitude of the Government in the development of new legislation?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-297	Mr President, I would like to When you have a right law, it is interpreted by court decisions that the government cannot or should not interfere with. This also applies to the interpretation of these by the Authority. I'm not reviewing either what the judge said or what the head of authority said. On the other hand, it is unfortunate that we have such a debate. I want people to feel that someone takes responsibility when the effects are so great in people's lives. That is why I asked for the supporting documents, and that is why we have taken the measures.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-299	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Bucht. On Monday, the EU's Special Committee on Agriculture decided on a new regulation for organic farming. The rules of the Regulation have been discussed for a long time. The Swedish government has worked hard to remove new rules that make it difficult for the Swedish eco-industry. Swedish environmental organisations and farmers' organisations such as Organic Farmers and LRF have also been very active in the work. Sweden has been successful in the negotiations. However, I know that despite this, the government would have preferred the proposal to have been scrapped on Monday and was also prepared to vote against it if there was a majority in favour of it. I would therefore like to ask Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht what things in the new regulation can cause problems for Swedish organic farming.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-302	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President, for the question. Let me first point out that this has been a lengthy process for a number of years. Sweden has always been critical of the regulation. Unfortunately, however, there has been no blocking minority. This has meant that we have assessed the situation as having to negotiate, improve and save what can be saved. We have succeeded in several respects. It is important, for example, that the dehorning be allowed to continue. But there is a problem picture, for example, when it comes to enclosed beds within greenhouses. Nevertheless, we have managed to get a deadline of ten years. The enclosed beds can be used for ten years for growing in greenhouses. The Commission will also produce a report within five years where we can see if we can possibly save it. Another thing is that we have had a delay in using non-organic breeding animals and non-organic seed with a period of 15 years.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-306	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. The Government's goal is that at least 30 per cent of Swedish agriculture should be organic by 2030. We are now seeing a sharp increase in sales of organic food. It is also an increased interest of Swedish farmers to change. It is, of course, important that we support this development. We do not want European rules that complicate it. We have received some of the answers. But are there other things that the government is now doing to overcome problems from the regulation?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-309	Mr President, I would like to Now the European Parliament is going to speak out on this matter. Then the implementation begins. There, Sweden will of course actively promote rules that take account of the needs of the organic sector. That is exactly what the questioner says. We want production to increase. The demand for organic is very large in Sweden and much greater than we produce. This is also why the government is going in with an additional 175 million in the 2018 budget to stimulate organic production.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-312	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. Those of us who do not have a Social Democratic party book are frankly both surprised and concerned that it seems impossible to move an incompetent head of government with a Social Democratic party book. I am thinking mainly of the head of the National Police and the head of the Public Employment Service. I choose to focus on the latter. The employment services failed gravely in their mission, especially in terms of matching and establishing new arrivals. In fact, I do not think there is any other view here. I hope not. In addition, the Swedish National Audit Office has repeatedly made very severe criticisms of the Swedish Public Employment Service regarding lack of effectiveness, lack of control and lack of follow-up. My question is very simple: has the Minister for Employment and the Government continued to trust the Director-General of the Employment Service?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-317	Mr President, I would like to The current Director General of the Employment Service was appointed by the former bourgeois government. The employment agency was when he took over an authority in free cases with enormous problems. Progress has been stabilised, and in several respects it is moving in the right direction – but not in all respects. My assessment is that the Arbetsförmedlingen continues to be a major flaw, but I will not contribute to making Arbetsförmedlingen a general spit cup in the debate, because that is not justified. There is also a lot of good work going on. Job intermediaries do great work every day and help people to work and help employers get the right staff. But there is also reason for criticism, and there is reason to change a lot within Arbetsförmedlingen. The answer to the question is that I have confidence in the Director-General of the Employment Service.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-321	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address my question to Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. The concept of a circular economy has been increasingly used in recent years to describe the transformation that we need to make of the economy and production. The Government also previously set up an investigation that was presented in March. Both in the debate and in the investigation, although it is certainly a good investigation, the focus is much on consumer behaviour and less on production. But a change in the economy and production processes requires a focus on production. Operators in the recycling industry have long asked for a material strategy. There are various proposals for economic instruments that can be used to increase circularity rather than take out virgin resources.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-326	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question and perspective, Sara Karlsson! I fully share the view that we need to focus on the infrastructure behind and on how we can find efficient and commercially profitable paths towards circularity. It should be easy to do the right thing for citizens. We should not shift the responsibility to them, but the responsibility lies with us decision-makers in politics but also within the business community. One initiative that we have taken from the government, which I find particularly interesting, is to look at metal handling. Using virgin metal means a great cost to the environment, and we have a study specifically looking at whether there are interesting metals in mining waste that could be economically viable for companies to recycle. That would be a very effective measure. We are also working hard for better regulation of these issues at European level.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-330	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson. For me and other warmers, Norway is a very important labour market. Many warmers work there and commute there, and many Värmland companies have their main market there. Many Norwegians and Norwegian companies also create jobs in Värmland. Unfortunately, there are a lot of different obstacles and regulatory problems for those who work across borders and for those companies that do business. If they can be removed, the jobs in Värmland can become more and the companies in Värmland can grow.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-334	Mr President, I would like to This is a very important question raised by Christian Barenfeld. We need to tear down barriers and make it easier to work in the common labour market that we have in the Nordic countries. When we compare ourselves with other countries, we can see that there is much to be proud of. For 60 years we have had a common labour market in the Nordic countries, and that has served us well. But it is incredibly annoying with the obstacles and difficulties that still exist. I will go to the Nordic Council of Labour Ministers in Oslo next week to talk to my colleagues. During the Swedish Presidency, which starts on 1 January, these issues will be a priority.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-337	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ylva Johansson. As a friend of Europe, I am concerned about the increased supranationality proposed by the European Commission's social pillar. It sounds good – we are in favour of workers' rights, of protecting workers and of receiving their wages – but at the moment the European Commission is moving towards greater supranationality in social and labour market policies. We have raised the question of whether a new labour market agency, which the President of the Commission wants, should include social security numbers for all citizens – one should come in with an authority and monitor the whole labour market in the EU, including Sweden. I am concerned that this may break the Swedish model. My question to the Government is: What development does the Government want to see, and how does she see what strategy Sweden should have to counter increased supranationality?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-341	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Mrs Pethrus wants to be with the government in terms of protecting workers' conditions and ensuring that we have improved upward convergence in terms of conditions, not least in the labour market, for European workers. I can assure Mrs Pethrus that we do not advocate an increase in supranationality. That is why, among other things, I am pleased that in the negotiations on the social pillar, we managed to ensure that it does not imply a transfer of powers or new powers at European level. Mrs Pethrus asks that the President of the European Commission, Mr Jean-Claude, has said that he wants to see a European Employment Authority. Such a proposal does not yet exist but is announced to arrive shortly before the summer. Then we will have to take a position on that proposal. We do not want a new authority that interferes with the Swedish labour market, but we would like to strengthen the conditions for healthy competition so that we do not use cross-border activities to distort competition or exploit workers.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-346	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mr Bucht my question. There is a company on the west coast that is engaged in land-based salmon farming. Unfortunately, they are now a little less able to operate because, under current Swedish legislation, they are not able to import salmon and smolt from Norway to Sweden. It is an old legislation based on the fact that there are only open salmon farms in the sea and do not take into account new conditions with salmon farms in closed systems on land. This hampers development and innovation and risks preventing potential jobs on the west coast. A year ago, I put a written question to the Government on the subject, and only a few months ago, the Government met representatives of the company and of the University of Gothenburg. My question is what is now happening on the matter. And what is the timetable for changing the legislation for this activity?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-349	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Fredrik Christensson! Aquaculture is a priority, not least within the food strategy adopted in this House. We have aquaculture today that is very small in relation to the Norwegian that is about a hundred times larger than the Swedish. This is a priority. There are also some obstacles that we are working on, but I must come back to the timetable for solving the problem raised by the questioner.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-350	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Åsa Regnér. Today there is a great shortage of family homes in the country. Municipalities are forced to find other solutions that are both more expensive and can have more negative consequences for children. The lack of family homes makes the situation untenable both for children and for social services. The reality today is that many children are placed in so - called emergency homes, and these placements can sometimes last up to a year. It also happens that children are placed in HVB homes even though they are not in need of treatment, which can lead to healthy children developing behavioral problems. The lack also means that the social services spend all their time finding suitable homes for the children, which means that they do not have time to work with recruitment.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-354	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Thomas Finnborg! That is a very important question. I share the view that this must be a priority for social services. Being placed, and properly placed, in people who are loving and fit to care for these children is one of the most important things society can do. The government has therefore contributed funds to the social care of children and young people, precisely so that you can have the child at the centre and devote working time to it. A national coordinator has also worked out in the municipalities to compile different views on how this can be improved. This work has involved ensuring, in various ways, access to, among other things, family homes. But we also have a contribution through the National Board of Health and Welfare, which actively goes out and informs us about what it means to be family homes and try to recruit them. We follow the question closely. It's very important.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-358	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. The government has significantly increased support for broadband investments in rural and sparsely populated areas. I think this House is quite in agreement that this is a good thing and that it needs to be done. However, there were also proposals for a broad approach in the report by the L Andsbygd Committee. One proposal was to raise the so-called SOT level, from today's 1 megabit to 30 megabits per second, which is the EU's objective. This means that all citizens have the right to some quality of communication. In practice, this would mean stopping the dismantling of copper networks in places where there are no alternatives. How does the government view the proposal? And what other proposals, based on the Rural Committee's proposals, will the government present to Parliament?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-362	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the question. It is extremely important that there is access to digital services and communication also in Swedish rural areas. The issue has become topical as Telia removes its copper network. It causes problems in rural areas. What the government proposes in the 2018 budget bill is that the SOT level should be raised from 1 megabit to 10 megabit. This should facilitate and improve communication in rural areas, where the copper network is disconnected. The government has a lot of other initiatives under way, as the questioner asks for. In the budget proposal, we have announced a bill for a comprehensive rural policy. We intend to allocate 750 million for it in 2019 and the same amount in 2020. We also want to make a special effort on vulnerable municipalities next year.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-366	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. A few days ago it became clear that the European Medicines Agency (EMA) is moving to Amsterdam when the United Kingdom leaves the European Union. Sweden was a candidate for Stockholm but was eliminated in the first round of voting. The second round of votes was between Milan, Amsterdam and Copenhagen. One might think that it would be obvious for Sweden to give its support to Copenhagen. Unfortunately, that does not seem to be the case. Denmark's Minister for Foreign Affairs was clear in his criticism of Sweden's actions, which it believes is a betrayal, not only against Denmark and Nordic cooperation, but against the entire Öresund region, which would have benefited if Copenhagen had won. EMA would have been located in Örestad, 20 minutes from Malmö Hyllie and 45 minutes from Lund Central. Does the Minister for Labour not agree with the assessment that it would have benefited the Öresund region if the EMA had ended up there? In a previous speech, the Minister for Labour spoke warmly for the Nordic cooperation. Does this not apply to Denmark and the Öresund region?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-369	Mr President, I would like to We have a good Nordic cooperation, and I am sure that we will continue to have it in the future, also between Sweden and Denmark. In Sweden we are sorry that we did not succeed in winning the fight for EMA. The Danes are also sorry that they did not win. I understand that there is a disappointment. We are disappointed, and they are disappointed. It seems that Sweden's votes were not decisive. Denmark probably wouldn't have taken it home anyway. I am sure that Sweden and Denmark will continue to have good cooperation. But both countries are sorry that we did not succeed.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-374	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has enormous potential for growing marine industries. We have the lakes, and we have the oceans. But above all we have people and companies who want and who have the ideas and knowledge to develop new products that both create jobs and deliver environmental benefits. Unfortunately, we have a lot of outdated legislation and complicated regulations that put obstacles in the way of new innovative companies. Some changes that need to be made are complex. But others are simple, if only the will exists. Water activities are subject to authorisation according to the Environmental Code. However, there are exceptions for fish, mussel and crayfish farming. Now there are several companies, including on the Bohus coast, that want to grow other organisms for feed and food, such as sea prunes and algae. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for the Environment if she is prepared to take the initiative to change the environmental code so that these crops too can have the same conditions.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-377	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the question. The type of activity we are talking about can be food-producing but also part of the work against eutrophication. I'll start with the latter. It's called blue catch crop. You can grow organisms in the sea that take up nutrients and that you can use, for example make energy out of it. Next year, we will be making a special effort precisely on pilot projects on blue catch crops. In addition, the agency will be tasked with looking at regulations. This development is ahead of the law. And there is reason to make simplifications. As my colleague, the Minister for Rural Development, said, there is also a food perspective on the issue. And within the food strategy, there is a focus on the possibility of increasing fish farming in Sweden.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-382	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Åsa Regnér. In Tuesday's LSS debate and also in yesterday's financial debate, we could hear some representatives of some parties claiming that the government is saving money and cutting back on assistance payments within the LSS. I am well acquainted with the legislation, and it is a law of rights that means that you get help according to your needs and decisions. It is not affected by the government's budget.
i-LxtV9DkMbiPfkGMisWbRfL	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mikael Dahlqvist! The government has addressed the issue of personal assistance in various ways, in particular through the long-term investigation that reviews the entire legislation and that will come up with its proposal in about a year's time. This legislation was introduced in 1994. Much has happened in society since then, also in terms of people's expectations. Therefore, it needs to be reviewed in its entirety. We have also increased our efforts to support the Swedish Social Insurance Agency in terms of being able to follow up cheating, including by providing funds for it. There is evidence that irregularities occur in certain payments and in certain organisers. We have not introduced any legislative changes. On the other hand, for a number of years there have been a number of judgments. In addition to the efforts I outlined in a previous reply, we have asked for an analysis of those judges, to look at the effects of them.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-388	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of the Environment, Mr Skog, about forests. Ownership is a foundation for a functioning forestry industry. Unfortunately, many forest owners today feel that ownership is gradually being eroded. A problem that recurs concerns the Species Protection Regulation. The two responsible authorities, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency, stated in a letter to the government last June that it is necessary to review the Species Protection Regulation in order to ensure its applicability, effectiveness and legal certainty. It's been 17 months or 52 0 days since then. And the government has had at least 70 meetings where decisions could have been made to launch that review. Since last summer, at least eight times in this House, I have asked representatives of the government, orally or in writing, what about the review. But no information has been given yet. Maybe it'll be the ninth time charmed now. Does the government intend to carry out the review of the Species Protection Regulation that has been called for and, if so, when?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-392	Mr President, I would like to My answer will be as obedient as in previous questions. There's no news today. There is a proposal, and that proposal is being prepared at the Government Office.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-394	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. The Swedish model of collective agreements and two strong social partners have benefited Sweden well, both for employees and employers. However, the concept of workers with good collective agreements is threatened because we see that more and more people are being forced to become one-man entrepreneurs with an F-tax bill in hand. In the last issue of the paper Work, we can read examples where you do not become employed, although several with F-tax bill work as construction workers alongside each other with exactly the same tasks and should be employed. This is a threat to the Swedish model, a threat to the employee concept and a threat to the collective agreement in the form of dumped wages and reduced insurance cover for the individual if the accident occurs.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-398	Mr President, I would like to It should be easy to start a business and be an entrepreneur. But we should not have false self-employed or involuntary self-employed workers. The problems raised by Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg are real, and the government takes them very seriously. Just recently, the government has set up a special investigation to review the F tax facility. The directives make it clear that, among other things, the issue of false and involuntary self-employed workers who should have been employed should be reviewed.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-401	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. The water management investigation has been out for a referral, and now the answers have been received. There are a number of unanswered questions. One question, Mr President, is who is going to finance the efforts needed to ensure that Sweden's 11 000 dams meet environmental requirements. For Sweden's 1,700 hydroelectric power plants, a fund of 10 billion is proposed to be financed by the hydroelectric industry. But for our 11 000 dams without power generation, owners are expected to bear the cost themselves. If the owners choose not to apply for a permit, only removal will remain. This will be an unreasonable and, hopefully, also an undesirable result for the Minister for the Environment. If you think that 10 billion is needed to make 1 700 hydroelectric plants comply with environmental requirements, what will be the cost of the 11 000 dams and who will be responsible for it? Does Karolina Skog think that the removal of our ponds is a reasonable consequence?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-405	Mr President, I would like to It is easy to agree that alternatives to an operator having an authorised activity not applying for authorisation, and thus the authorities having to resort to mandatory measures, are an unfortunate outcome. It's easy to agree on that part. This is a complex issue which concerns both existing legislation – it is the most topical issue – and to some extent new European legislation. We have taken important steps forward on these issues through the Energy Agreement. It will give rise to a bill to Parliament shortly and an opportunity to finance large parts of the work. The most important part is that we will be able to organise systematic work and review which watercourses have the highest biological value and are therefore the most important to make environmental efforts. Based on this, rational methods will be found both from a general perspective and from an individual perspective.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-408	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Regnér. At last, there's a rumbling all over the world. Women who for decades have been reduced, harassed, abused and destroyed take the blade from their mouths and scream stop. What happens now when girls, women and aunts throw off shame and talk about old and newer wrongs has the chance to forever change women's living conditions. The worst thing that can happen is that the volcano goes out, that it freezes and that everything goes back to what has been. What can the Minister for Equality and the rest of the government do to make Metoo truly the force that changes the world?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-412	Mr President, I would like to This really is a serious social debate that courageous women have started. I am grateful that people have gone out and told us about in many cases terrible abuse and systematic reduction of women and contempt for women. We in the government are taking this very seriously. As Minister for Gender Equality, I feel tremendous support from that anger. I'm sorry it's women who have had to take the step again. I wish men would come out much more and show their solidarity with women. The government comes before Christmas with a new package against sexual crimes where we introduce consent legislation. We have presented a package of 1 billion against violence against women, focusing primarily on prevention. This morning, I and the Minister of Justice met with the judiciary to impress upon them the importance of leading both inward and outwardly socially upbuilding and ensuring that women's rights are truly strengthened and given the importance they have.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-415	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address my question to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. Matching job seekers to job vacancies is one of Arbetsförmedlingen's most important tasks, perhaps even the most important. Despite this, there are studies that indicate that matching on the Swedish labour market has deteriorated in recent years. The Swedish National Audit Office's report on the deterioration of matching was last published. It's serious. But now to my question about Arbetsförmedlingen as an authority. The Finnish Employment Service's own analyses of the matching have shown that the deterioration is affected by the change in the individual composition of the unemployed. However, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that this is not true but that only one third of the deterioration can be resolved by the composition. Otherwise, it is unexplained. This is remarkable. Is it not time, the Minister for Labour, to follow the Alliance's proposal to phase out the Employment Service in its current form?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-419	Mr President, I would like to The answer to the question is no. It won't be easier to match without an employment agency. On the contrary, we need to make major changes to the Employment Service, and that is what we are working on. The match issue is absolutely central. Just as Jessika Roswall says, the matching has deteriorated in the Swedish labour market. I take it very seriously. The Swedish Public Employment Service's own analysis has been that this is a change in composition. Today, 75 to 80 percent of enrolled persons are considered to be groups that are very distant from the labour market. Recently, the Swedish National Audit Office produced an interesting report, to which Mrs Roswall refers. A different analysis is made and a different method of analysis is used than the one used by the Public Employment Service, and a different conclusion has been reached. It is a newer way of analysing that the Swedish National Audit Office has used, and it invites the Swedish Public Employment Service to take on board this method in order to explain and improve matching. The Arbetsförmedlingen has to do that.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-423	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Regnér. Yesterday I visited a home where girls with heavy problems are treated with closed care within Sis, the State Department Board, where the risk of psychosis, aggression and suicide is high. From time to time, you have to get these inmates off to a psychiatric clinic. But then neither the police nor the ambulance take the person with them, but it is the National Transport Unit that should take care of this. It has service only during the day on weekdays. I know transport is not the minister's responsibility, but the young people at the Sis home are. How can you ensure, the Government, that the prisoners at Sis-hem can come to care regardless of the time of day and day of the week?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-427	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Katarina Brännström, for a very important question! Of course, I have also visited activities of the kind described by Katarina Brännström. These are extremely vulnerable young people. Municipalities are always the last in the chain when it comes to young people's vulnerability, and Sis is the last in that chain. We have had occasion to discuss these issues in this House earlier this year. Many times young people who come to Sis would probably feel better from another form of care, such as extensive mental illness. That is why we are now reviewing this and have asked for suggestions as to what it might look like instead. What your question is about, Katarina Brännström, is of course how authorities can best cooperate around these children. My answer is that they will.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-432	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. Impairment due to mental diagnosis is increasing. Women in particular are affected. An important villain in this context is the working life and the conditions there. In women-dominated sectors, it is very part-time, shared tours, hourly employment, slim organisations, high workload and, moreover, too little staff. My question is how we can help these women. How can we improve working conditions and the working environment and make employment more secure, working hours better and so on? This is to prevent women from getting sick of their jobs and, by extension, to prevent early retirement, which is a problem not least when it comes to living on their pension.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-435	Mr President, I would like to This is an extremely important question, and a minute is a short time to answer. First, we can see that the number of sick leave is higher in women-dominated sectors – for both men and women who work in those sectors. Let's be clear about that. It is therefore the activity itself that needs to be changed. The Government is making major investments in resources for work environment work and work environment research and is setting up a new authority in the area of work environment work and knowledge about this. We have a new regulation concerning organizational and social work, how to organize work, which is of great importance. The government is also making efforts to ensure more secure employment. We have an investigation that looks, among other things, at so-called SMS employments, contracts where you have too few hours in relation to what you work with, planing and things that women suffer more than men. When it comes to the work against sexual harassment and violations, Åsa Regnér and I will soon meet the social partners to discuss how we can jointly strengthen that work in the workplace.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-441	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Rural Minister Bucht. Over the next 40 years, we will produce as much food on earth as we have done for the last 8,000 years. We are going to do that with an area base that is decreasing and today is down to 0.2 hectares per inhabitant on earth. In Sweden we have good potential to increase our food production. We have skilled and competent farmers, and we have good climate conditions. It is gratifying that the food strategy has set targets for increasing food production. But food production is not increased by making it more difficult to regulate and red tape or by setting targets for forms of production and the like.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-446	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I am pleased that the questioner wants to increase food production in Sweden. It has been declining for a long time. The food strategy is clear: we will increase production. We have 600 000 hectares of arable land that are not under plough, so conditions exist. We also have world-class agriculture, world-class environmental thinking in primary production and the lowest use of antibiotics throughout the EU. The government has invested SEK 1 billion, i.e. SEK 1 000 million, in an action programme to make a reality of the national food strategy adopted here in Parliament in very broad political agreement on the overall strategic objectives.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-450	Mr President, I would like to On Saturday, it's UN Day Against Men's Violence Against Women. Violence and sexual abuse against women have been going on at all times because we live in a patriarchal society with dito attitudes, jargon, conceptions of masculinity, stereotypical gender roles and so on. This autumn's huge amount of testimony, which we have heard about in previous issues here, shows what women have been exposed to at all times. It's not all men, but everyone can do something about it. One can also work preventively to get an equal world free from violence.
i-2PoqQ4Ms44nvoJYawyRYfc	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Monica Green! This is a big question. Last morning, we had a conversation with the judiciary's bosses about the increase in sexual crimes, which specifically concerns young women and also young offenders. The government has presented a package of 1 billion against violence against women. Much of that package aims to increase efforts in the field of prevention. We are also setting up a gender equality authority. I take it that much of what the women in the Metoo call for are results in the work on gender equality because it affects the quality of people's lives, in women's and men's lives. That authority is also given the task of putting together the national programme to prevent violence against women. It's about preschool, school, fritis, sports associations, workplaces – all to reach men and boys with knowledge about gender equality and talk about violence and also reach girls and women so that they know their rights. But we have to do a lot more.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-459	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Labour Johansson. The port of Gothenburg is Sweden's and Scandinavia's most important port, and one advantage has long been that there have been direct routes to America and the Far East. There have been great environmental benefits of trains being driven to Gothenburg for shipping with ships further out into the world. The port of Gothenburg has been wrestling with a port conflict for a long time. The impact is significant on industry and its transport. Large quantities of goods are forced away from rail and ships to road transport. Svenska Dagbladet talks about 124 tons in increased emissions every day, which corresponds to the emissions from about 500 buses that drive between Gothenburg and Stockholm.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-463	Mr President, I would like to The situation in the Port of Gothenburg is very serious, not only for Gothenburg but also for the environment, for Swedish industry around Sweden and for Swedish competitiveness. It is extremely serious that a lot of goods have been lost and that many companies today feel insecure about using the port and instead choose other transport routes. Right now, there's no conflict in the harbor. Right now, the business is working. But you don't feel safe because the conflict can flare up again at any time. I met with the West Swedish Chamber of Commerce as late as last week and discussed the issue together with a large number of representatives of important companies that depend on the port and together with the investigator who is now working for high pressure to produce legislative changes to the gap in relation to the Swedish model that is expressed in the port as it is bound by a collective agreement together with Transport and has another trade union that does not allow itself to be integrated into the Swedish model and thus poses a lot of problems with conflicts.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-467	Mr President, I would like to Swedish care is often of high quality, but Sweden's waiting times are among Europe's longest. A contributing factor to the long waiting periods is the lack of trained staff. One reason for this shortcoming is that further education pays poorly for nurses. Already today, more than every third specialist nurse pays more than 50 percent in tax on the last hundred dollars earned, i.e. as a high-income person in Sweden of the Social Democrats.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-471	Mr President, I would like to The fundamental issue raised by Helena Bouveng, namely the availability of the right staff in Swedish healthcare, is very important. That is where we have significant shortcomings. This has to do with, among other things, the issue of the working environment in healthcare that was raised here earlier. Unfortunately, many choose to leave the profession or not to work full time, or they get sick from working conditions. We also need to make special efforts in order for more people to opt for further training as specialist nurses. Mr President, I would like to Of course, the design of the tax system is also important for the incentives in the labour market, but I believe that it is not the tax system that is the problem when it comes to the shortcomings we currently have in Swedish healthcare and the shortcomings in terms of the fact that we have too few specialist nurses. It is mainly about the conditions during studies – to be able to finance them – and the wage levels, of course.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-475	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Rural Affairs, who recently visited Ljusdal. So did I, on Monday night, and then this opinion came out: It is now or never! We must become more offensive if we are to maintain a living countryside in Sweden. The background to the meeting was the widespread criticism of the government's predatory policy; it is about the number of wolves. The Swedish Parliament has made a decision that there should be 170 – 270 wolves in Sweden, while the Swedish Green Party has launched another target of 300. The predator bill, adopted by the Swedish parliament, states that socio-economic considerations should be taken into account when assessing the number of predators in Sweden, as well as geographical distribution. My question to the Minister for Rural Development is: What level of the number of wolves in Sweden do you think is reasonable, and in what way do you take socio-economic considerations into account in your predatory policy?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-479	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I will repeat the same answer that I gave to the honourable Member in an interpellation debate on this subject. The Parliament has made a decision on a minimum number of wolves in Sweden; it should be at least 100 – 170. This government has taken a series of decisions that are about getting order in predatory policy and have brought the decisions down to the authorities and to the regional level. After consultation with researchers and international experts, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has re-evaluated the number needed for us to be able to maintain a viable wolf tribe, which has also been decided by the Riksdag. We get very worrying reports that the Swedish wolf tribe is heavily inbred. In the future, we need to focus on what to do about this.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-483	Mr President, I would like to I address my question to Minister Åsa. Yesterday I Sis the home of Rebecka. Some of the girls living in these homes are as young as nine ten years old, and many feel extremely bad. Suicide attempts are common. So we are talking about children who feel so bad that they have tried to end their lives – children who have not received the support and help they need and deserve. They have not been captured at the right time, and it may be due to many different things. That in Sweden in 2017 there are children who feel this bad and don't get any help is for me unforgivable. Therefore, my question to the Government is: What does the Government intend to do to ensure that we meet these children in the past, whose vulnerability often began in the early childhood years?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-487	Mr President, I would like to These are incredibly important issues, and I share the view that this is a very worrying development we are seeing. Therefore, the government has also taken a number of measures to strengthen support and protection for these children – girls and boys. We have strengthened support for children's and young people's psychiatry financially. We have strengthened support for social services for staffing measures in the field of social care for children and young people, and also for the National Board of Institutional Affairs. We are investigating another form of care for children who have the greatest need for psychiatric care. We have also strengthened support for student health and are investigating the Social Services Act in order to be able to further use that legislation just to get in even earlier, before the problems are this big. So we do a lot, but we need to do even more.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-491	Mr President, I would like to 30 years ago, most people thought wild boar was a pleasant feature of our fauna. That is why I have a question for Minister Bucht. The situation has changed radically since then. Today, the wild boar issue has become a major area of conflict, in several ways. There are a lot of traffic accidents. They have increased dramatically – in some areas they are actually worse than the deer and elk accidents. The damage to the farm is severe, with arched ramparts of all kinds. The fact that we have a serious social problem is undisputed, and this can be measured. Better regulation of the feeding of wild boar is one example. There must be a major launch. But it also requires better and more effective methods for the meat to reach consumers. Abroad, for example in Germany, has much better control of this.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-495	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. It seems that the honourable Member has thought better, because it was not so long ago that the government submitted a bill to Parliament to limit the feeding of wild boars during the vegetation periods to deal with the increasing feral pig population. Unfortunately, the parliament did not take the decision proposed by the government in the bill, but voted it down. We have a huge problem today, not just with road accidents. Agriculture, too, suffers huge costs due to the wild boar strain. It is clear that it is necessary to regulate the feeding that is currently taking place during the vegetation period, when there is natural feed. Another way is to shoot off more, and we have game facilities that can take care of the meat. There is also good knowledge among hunters about this.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-497	Madam President, I would like On Friday, the Summit for Fair Jobs and Growth was held in Gothenburg. It was a Swedish initiative in which, together with President Jean-Claude of the European Commission, I hosted the meeting. Afterwards, a lunch meeting was held with discussions on education and culture, chaired by President of the European Council Donald Tusk. This year is the 20th anniversary of the last debate on social issues at the level of Heads of State or Government in the EU, at a Luxembourg employment summit. In Gothenburg, therefore, many expressed their appreciation for the fact that these issues were now brought back to the highest political level in the EU. Together with the EU institutions, the social partners, representatives of civil society and students and many others, EU Heads of State or Government discussed how the EU's social dimension can be strengthened as an important part of the future work currently being carried out in the European Union. Representatives of the parliamentary parties were also present, some of whom are in the Chamber today. During the meeting, three parallel and webcast sessions were organised with the following themes: access to the labour market, market conditions and support in transition when you lose your job. The open and dynamic format of the sessions gave good and concrete discussions where participants had the opportunity to highlight different experiences and perspectives. At the meeting, the Pillar of Social Rights was also signed by President Juncker, President Tajani of the European Parliament and the Presidency of the Council of the European Union through Estonia's Prime Minister Ratas. The pillar is an important step for a more social Europe. It lists 20 principles and rights needed to ensure that the labour market and welfare systems are fair and well-functioning, such as gender equality, skills provision and fair working conditions. The pillar focuses on the interests of citizens and represents a commitment for all Member States to provide for their citizens, but it does not imply a transfer of power to Brussels but respects the competence of the Member States. Each Member State is free to decide how the principles of the pillar are to be implemented. Madam President, I would like It goes without saying to me that Swedish employees should not lose their jobs or have worse conditions because of unfair competition from other EU countries. For me, it goes without saying that our young people must have the right skills to enter the labour market. For me, it goes without saying that we must give active support to those who need to switch to the jobs of the future. The EU has long focused on removing barriers to trade and facilitating mobility. That's good, but it's not enough. We must also care about people's conditions. Those who work are actually the ones who build society. Now is a better time to focus more on these particular issues. Now the perception is growing that we are meeting people's concerns best by improving working and living conditions, not by worsening them. That is also how we increase people's trust in Europe and its institutions. Last Friday, for the first time in a very long time, the Heads of State or Government of the European Union had to pay undivided attention to these very issues. I am proud that Sweden was the initiator of a collection on this. The outcome of the discussions will now be summarised in a short report which I shall present with the President of the Commission. The report will contribute to the discussion of the European Council on the social dimension of future issues in December. Bulgaria will pursue these issues further during its Presidency in the first half of 2018, for example as regards the implementation of the European Semester. There we can already see that the principles of the social pillar have a central place. Madam President, I would like During lunch we summed up the morning's reasoning. We then continued with a discussion on the role of education and culture in jobs and growth. The discussion focused mainly on the possibilities of developing, deepening and broadening the successful Erasmus programme. It is important that we can continue to develop the mobility of our students. Part of it was about how we can increase cooperation between different universities across Europe. But as usual, these are priorities, because the stumbling block is funding. Therefore, what a possible Erasmus programme could look like will be the first to be determined in the negotiations on the next long-term budget. As you know, no decisions were taken during this meeting, but I expect these issues to be highlighted also in the context of the next European Council. Madam President, I would like This was the report from Friday's summit for fair jobs and growth in Gothenburg.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-513	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister for his report. I was going to take my starting point in the lunch discussions, which focused on cultural and educational policy. It was an informal discussion, and no decisions were made. This is a new form of meeting presented by Donald Tusk for this summit. Then it is important to see it in your perspective. It would have an informal status, and there would be no formal decisions. But the conclusions, or what was discussed, could enter into European policy in the future. Then an important issue is linked to the anchoring of the Riksdag and the EU Board in this case. I would therefore like to hear the Prime Minister's view on how, if there are to be more such meetings, to ensure the foundation of the Swedish Parliament. Linked to this, I have read in comments that the Prime Minister was critical before the summit that these informal meetings should raise issues to higher places when it comes to these particular elements. I wonder if the Prime Minister stands by that position. This is also about issues of clear national competence, where it is the nations around Europe that are primarily and ultimately concerned with education and culture policy.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-519	Madam President, I would like No conclusions were adopted and no decisions were made – just as Fredrik Christensson says. We have the order that when decisions are to be made, and when the government is to express whether a decision is okay or not, it should of course be anchored in the Swedish parliament. That's how it has to be. But when we were going to have more loose discussions – we did not know, for example, what was going to be raised in relation to education and training issues – there were therefore no decisions. It was, for example, a loose discussion, as I said, about the development of the Erasmus programme. Nevertheless, we want to give our students good opportunities through the Erasmus programme. Many have so far had the opportunity to do so. If there is to be any change, any extension or deepening of it, it will happen when we adopt the next multiannual budget. That question does not come up in a sharp position until then. I think it is a good thing that you also have the opportunity to sit down and discuss a little more informally and be able to highlight different perspectives without having to make a decision. These issues have already been included in the Treaties and so on. It is very clear, for example, in the preamble to the social pillar that the European Union also has a role to play in these matters. However, there is a very clear division of decision-making powers as to what the Member States are doing and what might possibly fall on the EU. In this sense, I think it is good that there is an informal discussion. No decisions were made, and that is exactly how it is.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-524	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I share his view that it is extremely important to increase student mobility in Europe. There is no doubt about that. This was a new form of meetings and leadership agenda presented by Donald Tusk. In the run-up to the meeting, he pointed out that no formal decisions would be taken, but that it would be a political guide. I wonder how the Prime Minister feels there is a need to involve the Riksdag already before, given that Donald Tusk has just presented that this will be recurring in other areas as well, as I understand it.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-526	Madam President, I would like In the run-up to this summit, which preceded the lunch discussion, we had information for the EU Council. We agree that there should be consultation with the EU Board when decisions are to be taken and when any direction or position should be indicated. The Government will then go to the Riksdag and consult with a view to obtaining support for its positions. So did the previous government. But I still think it is a good order that sometimes you can sit down and think about what is a bit further away without having to make decisions. For example, we think that the Erasmus programme has been good, and there may be a question of discussing its development. But this will only happen when the next multiannual budget is adopted.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-528	Madam President, I would like I listened to the President of Lithuania, Dalia Grybauskaite, when she spoke in Gothenburg. She was very upset that Swedish workers can work in a workplace where they have collective agreements, decent wages, social rights, get a pension and so on, while Lithuanian workers stand there doing the same job but receive one third of their salary and have no rights. She asked herself if it should be like that. And that's not how it should be. But a social pillar, Stefan Löfven, does not solve this problem in the labour market, that we have a two-tier labour market and that we have social dumping in Europe? On the other hand, a social protocol could solve this, namely that there is a requirement that those who come here and perform services are welcome, but that the same laws, same rules and the same salaries should apply to those who are posted here as to Swedish workers. I want to know whether Stefan Löfven highlighted the issue of a social protocol. I would also like to raise the question of something that is a bit false when listening to the speeches of the social summit in Gothenburg. On the one hand, social rights must be strengthened, and labour law and collective agreements must be strengthened and applied. On the other hand, however, we have an increasingly divided Europe. We have, for example, Emmanuel Macron in France, who has fought against the trade union movement and is undermining trade union rights, making it easier to circumvent collective agreements and making it easier to fire workers. That is why I would like to ask Stefan Löfven: how does this go together, that on the one hand you can cherish the social dimension and the pillar, and on the other hand at home you can tear up the same rights that Gothenburg claims to uphold?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-533	Madam President, I would like It is precisely the issue of equal pay for equal work that we are pursuing, and that is why we have taken the battle on the Posting of Workers Directive. A revised Posting of Workers Directive enables Swedish parties to stand up for collective agreements here in Sweden so that those who come here, also on temporary work, also receive the same salary and conditions. That is precisely the question of the Posting of Workers Directive. As far as the social pillar and a social protocol are concerned, this is the case: a social protocol does not appear on the agenda until the Treaty is amended. I have said before that that is not the most important thing at the moment. Of course, if such a discussion had come up, it could have been discussed, but now it is not. There is no point in changing the Treaty. For me it is not the most important thing now either, but for me the most important thing is to get a focus on social issues. If you read through what is in the pillar, you can see that it is now a commitment from the Member States, both in terms of access to the labour market so that more young people and more women enter the labour market as well as in terms of equal opportunities in the labour market, educational opportunities and social protection in general. However, Member States are free to decide how they want to do this. Now that we are getting this into the semester, I would rather take that step than wait for a treaty change that will come in x years. Then we will begin the march towards a better labour market instead of waiting for a Treaty change that I do not know how long. Somewhere you have to start, and I'm not going to stand here and say that it was miserable that we only got a social pillar. That's what's possible now, and I'd rather do it than nothing. I think we should take it home as a success. How each country then wants to do this and which path you want to choose, you actually have to decide for yourself. Macron has an overall view in which he wants to strengthen the role of the collective agreement. Otherwise, I will not go into the French discussion.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-538	Madam President, I would like I also think it is good that, for once, European leaders talk about other things than convergence criteria, competition, market rules and so on. We in the Left Party said that this was an important summit; it is good that social issues are discussed. However, it must be a little more than just discussions. The Prime Minister says that he will be prepared to support a social protocol on that day, but perhaps that is precisely what Sweden's role is in the whole – to highlight the issue that not only the right of establishment should apply but that there will also be certain obligations with it, namely that one should respect the laws of the countries, their agreements and, of course, their salaries. That's not how it works today, Stefan Löfven. We have social dumping in Europe and also in Sweden, and that unfortunately does not change with the social pillar. Instead, we must demand a little more, and I hope that the Prime Minister will do so.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-541	Madam President, I would like I think it is so common that, on the one hand, it is said that this is good, but on the other hand it says that it is not good. At some point you have to decide and take a step. Now that's what we can do-- that's what's possible-- and then we think it's better that we do it. Then we'll see. When a discussion of the Treaty may come, we have a completely different playing field. I definitely believe that this is an improvement. You can't say it's good and it's not good. I think it is a step in the right direction. When I read through the pillar and saw it for the first time, I thought this was a good thing. It's a good thing we're taking this step. Later on, there are other steps to be taken, but I think that we must also say that we are taking steps forward at some point. You can't just be unhappy that you didn't get the perfect; at some point you also have to be a little content to take a step in the right direction. The social pillar is a step in the right direction. Now we have got these issues at the top of the agenda, and they will be followed up all the time during the semester.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-544	Madam President, I would like Thank you for reporting, Prime Minister. I was also at the social summit, and it was interesting to listen to the various Heads of State or Government and their views on this. It gave a slightly more balanced view of the fact that it is not easy to implement all the 20 principles and rights contained in the social pillar. However, it is a bit of a concern that the Prime Minister sometimes says that no decisions were made when, on the other hand, he tells you that this is a commitment. The decision on the pillar states the right to education, the right to support for finding employment, the right to adequate unemployment funds and minimum income, and so on. At the same time, we are seeing the question of who will take the decisions on our social policy in the future, and there, after all, I am concerned about an increase in supranationality. I would like to refer to Nils Karlson, CEO of Ratio – Business Research Institute. He says that those who may think that the principles and rights of the social pillar are only empty symbolic policies that need not be taken seriously make two mistakes. The first is that the independent role of the European Court of Justice has historically proved that a practice on rights issues can be developed. The second mistake is to underestimate the importance of symbols and rhetorical figures. Once these rights have been established in political language, the trend is difficult to reverse, and likely that is also the aim. Now that the UK is leaving the EU, we see that many states want common unemployment insurance at EU level, common employment services and a common labour market policy. There is now also a proposal for a labour market authority. Is this the right way? How will the Prime Minister react to the pressure for increased supranationality that is now coming?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-548	Madam President, I would like It is quite correct that this is not very easy to implement. It's complex, so it'll take its time. But every thousand miles starts with one step, so somewhere you're going to start. Social issues have already been included in the Treaty. It refers to them, for example, in the Treaty on European Union and in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. There are already issues there – social progress is to be made, we are to avoid social exclusion, we are to combat social exclusion and so on. So it is a mission that the European Union already has. My point is that the pillar does not change any decision-making competence. There is what already exists at EU level, and then Member States have their competence. On the contrary, the introduction of the pillar takes account of differences in national systems several times. The principle of subsidiarity applies, the pillar should complement national policies and so on. That is the very preamble to the pillar, and it is clear wording on how we view those things. During the Gothenburg Summit, no decisions were taken. The pillar had its own process, and it was ready before the meeting. It was signed at the summit, but the process was already completed. As I said, it is very clear who should make decisions. When it comes to the fact that the pillar does not matter, no one is bringing this up and working on it so that it does not matter. Of course it's important. That's my whole point of departure. The European Union has spent all its time on the market, the capital market, free movement and so on – which I think is fundamentally good. But the social dimension is lacking, and there is no trust in a European project if it is not also very clear, in fact, that people's good and bad things are for. Then the social issues will be on the agenda.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-553	Madam President, I would like In fact, I still do not know where the government and Prime Minister are going when it comes to social issues and who is going to make the decisions. Should they be missing in Sweden or in the EU? The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Industry has sent e-mails to us politicians here, and they say that they are concerned about a development that risks reducing national self-determination and the autonomy of the social partners and that it threatens the Swedish partner model. Does the Prime Minister not see that there is a concern that we will have to have another when it says about minimum wages and other things? It also states that the social pillar is not legally binding but that it already generates several legislative proposals. That's why it's still fog curtains, isn't it? The Prime Minister stands here and lays out? He says: It does not matter, but it will matter. We will have proposals, but we will make all the decisions ourselves. It is totally impossible to understand where the government is going on this issue. Do you want more supranationality or not, Prime Minister?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-556	Madam President, I would like I'll try again. I want workers in the European labour market to have the right conditions. I think it's important. Swedish jobs should not disappear due to unhealthy competition. Swedish conditions should not have to deteriorate due to unhealthy competition. I think that women should have greater participation in the labour market and that more people should get to work. I think young people need to get to work. I think we need to help those who are out of work to get back to work. Most may not even get an education, but it is assumed that tomorrow's job will be taken with yesterday's education. It won't hold. We must have a very clear social dimension in this, but this pillar does not change decision-making competence. That's my message. Nothing has happened there. What the EU has to do, the EU can do, and what the Member States have to do is unchanged. But I want a much clearer social dimension.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-559	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your report. We Moderates are not against social issues, but we are against supranationality in social matters. We believe that the EU must be relevant and focus on its main tasks, and that does not include EU-wide parental insurance or harmonised social assistance. We from the Moderates have repeatedly warned against the far-reaching consequences of a social pillar in an area which we Moderates believe is within national competence. The Prime Minister has shown no concern whatsoever about what a pillar can lead to. He has repeatedly said that he does not want to see supranationality but that it is up to each Member State how to meet the objectives of the pillar. In contrast, the President of the Commission said at the Gothenburg Summit that the social pillar is not a collection of poems but a programme of action. He made it clear that the Commission will take seriously the objectives of the pillar by bringing forward EU legislation in this area. At the joint press conference of the Prime Minister and the President of the Commission, Mr Juncker mentioned in particular the updating of the Parental Leave Directive with four months of quota parental insurance. He also mentioned the importance of a special budget for social affairs in the EU. These two descriptions of the social pillar differ significantly, so I wonder whose description is correct – that of the Prime Minister or the President of the Commission?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-565	Madam President, I would like It could be both. Clearly, this is a programme of action. It should not be a collection of poems, but the whole point is that we should raise our ambition in terms of social issues. I hear from some Members in here all the time that they are not against social issues and that they find it interesting, but I never hear any suggestions on how to proceed. Never do I hear it, but I hear only a lot of technical and formal objections about one or the other. I would ask you once again to read the preamble to the social pillar. It says four or five times that there is no takeover of more power. It states the principle of subsidiarity and that it is complementary to the national rules. This can be discussed indefinitely, but I would ask you to read it. I would also like to ask where in this pillar Ulrika Karlsson, in this case, sees that it says that more decision-making competence should be taken over. Where does this stand? Where do these fears come from? I say that there will be no change in the order of decision-making between the EU and the Member States. I think it is a good thing – the EU already has some decision-making competence in this area. The so-called Enlightenment Directive, which aims to provide workers with good written information on the employment relationship they enter, is a rule that has existed since 1991. It is therefore nothing new that the EU has decision-making competence on these issues, but no further decision-making competence should be transferred to the EU and to Brussels. That is what I am trying to say, and there I and Mr Juncker are in complete agreement. However, I want it to be a programme of action. That is why I want it to enter the semester, so that we follow up these issues as well as we follow up on economic developments. I think it is probably so important to have the social part and that people can feel some kind of social security and look at the future brightly instead of constantly being afraid of the future, because that would be the worst thing we can achieve.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-572	Madam President, I would like There are clearly differences of opinion on how the summit and the social pillar are to be interpreted, what the consequences are to be and how it is to be followed up. The Commission has been clear on how to move forward with the pillar. There are already proposals for a European Employment Authority, and the Commission's work programme for next year, 2018, says it will present a package of measures on social issues. So we will have a series of proposals for European legislation in the social field. French President Macron has made it clear that he wants statutory minimum wages in each EU country, which would cut right into the Swedish model. The description of the pillar and its consequences therefore differ significantly, so I ask once again: whose description is correct – the Prime Minister's or Macron'?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-576	Madam President, I would like I don't know how long we can continue this discussion. Now came a new written speech, which takes no account of what I say. It'll be pretty hard to discuss then. It is quite clear that the social pillar does not change any decision-making competence between the EU and the Member States. I would also ask – at some point – for an answer to what in the social pillar points to something else.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-578	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for reporting back from the social meeting in Gothenburg! On the basis of the reporting that we have received in this House today, as well as on the basis of media reporting, I can see that it is clear that the Prime Minister and the Government are crawling to the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker, on this issue, which I, as a national Conservative Member of the Swedish Parliament, find most regrettable. In the past, we have had a LO alliance that has pushed the issue of Laval judgment very hard. We have had a trade union movement in this country that has very clearly stood up to wage dumping, not least in the construction and transport sectors. But today we have a Social Democratic Prime Minister in the form of Stefan Löfven who, time and again, makes great promises – here in this House we hear beautiful and fine words – but who in practice betrays Swedish employees and who in practice ensure that we get more and more social dumping, both in Europe and here in Sweden. Not least, we have the situation with Romania and Bulgaria – we see the beggars everywhere in our whole elongated country. Now we also see a social pillar, which despite what Stefan Löfven stands here and says moves more power in the social field from Sweden and the Swedish Parliament to anonymous and unelected bureaucrats in Brussels. This is appalling and most regrettable. Why doesn't Stefan Löfven want to put his foot down in this case? Why does Stefan Löfven not want to take responsibility for Sweden and for the Swedish model? Why does Stefan Löfven want to transfer more power to Brussels? Just as the Moderates were at work, Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker and Stefan Löfven say two very different things in the social field with regard to the social pillar.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-584	Madam President, I would like I am somewhat surprised when Pavel Gamov from the Swedish Democrats will teach me about the trade union movement.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-585	This rhetoric is just flosskeler – there will be nothing substantiated. Now I also ask Pavel Gamov to respond to what is in this social pillar that transfers competence from the Member States to Brussels. You'll have to prove at some point what's doing this. Do not use empty rhetoric and philosophies, but say more specifically what it is in the social pillar that moves over more power! Sweden drives these issues and does not have to crawl – we agree. All the Member States that have adopted this pillar are in agreement. Some Member States have Social Democratic leaderships, while others have bourgeois, conservative or liberal leaderships, but we agree that this is a dimension that must be included. The hope of citizens and employees must be increased. It can not only be a market and a money market and goods and services, it must also be about people. This is what the social pillar addresses. We took that initiative, and we did so together with the President of the Commission because we share the same view on this. We will be proud in Sweden when the whole of Europe comes here. Not only Heads of State or Government, but also the social partners, civil society, academia and students come here because they see a need for this. This is absolutely necessary. But what do you meet here in the Swedish parliament and by the Swedish Democrats? Well, an empty rhetoric that unfortunately is not backed up by a single fact.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-590	Madam President, I would like It is clear that I, Pavel Gamov, as a national conservative member of the Swedish Parliament, will teach the trade unionist Löfven about the Swedish trade union movement and the Swedish language. It's called a fact, Prime Minister. We have social dumping in Sweden and in Europe. This is particularly true in the construction and transport sectors. We have social dumping in Sweden and in other Western European countries with regard to beggars, the Roma, from Romania and Bulgaria. Although the Prime Minister has been in government for over three years, nothing has been done against this. Instead, Stefan Löfven crawls to federalist Juncker and moves more and more power to Brussels and to unelected bureaucrats and lobbyists. This is a disgrace to Sweden. The frog is boiled slowly – of course it is. It starts with this, but we know that with the new Treaty amendment following the European Parliament elections in 2019 this will be laid down by law in the Treaty.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-594	Madam President, I would like Now we are beginning to recognise the Swedish Democrats. Now the words are real. They want and believe that one can be populist and talk about the welfare and woe of employees. At the same time, representatives of trade unions are called trade unionists. Or is it perhaps only the Prime Minister who is a union champion? Do the Swedish Democrats have this view of trade union representatives, that they are trade unionists? I did not hear any response to the transfer of decisions to Brussels in the social pillar. I think it is because Pavel Gamov finds no such sign whatsoever. But this fits in with the rhetoric of the Swedish democrats, which is regrettable.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-596	Madam President, I would like And so it is said that it never heats up in the Swedish parliament! This is interesting. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your report. Let me also say thank you for the last time! I had the privilege of attending the Gothenburg Summit. Liberals share the government's view of the need for a social pillar. That's why we've been on that line all along. I believe that the basis for this is that the Liberals are the most pro-European party in this House and that we believe in freedom of movement. Precisely because we believe so much in a strong Europe and that Sweden should be strong in this Europe, we think that the beggars, whom we heard described earlier and who sit outside the shops, are a grave under-grade of the Europe that we have seen so far. I am therefore pleased that we had the opportunity to write a social pillar. But now we come to the next crux, and that is to turn it into a workshop and into action. I think we can agree on one point, which, as I can remember, has been a standing point in this parliamentary term and certainly in the past too. It is that we are constantly saying that the European Union must deal with the decisions that have already been taken and put them into practice. Now this is to be written into the European annual semester in order to be able to report on it. But, Prime Minister, this was an informal summit. How did the discussion go? Is there a genuine will? The Prime Minister said that Bulgaria will now take the discussion forward during its Presidency. That's fantastic. But is there a genuine will to be able to act? How did the discussion go behind the closed doors, where we were not allowed to participate?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-602	Madam President, I would like For most of the time the doors were open. We had a lunch discussion when we had a brief summary. We noted there that the issue came up again at the December European Council. It must be included in the conclusions with the intention of coming to a workshop and action. Just like Tina Acketoft says, it's coming into the semester. That is the main strategy now, because then we will have a follow-up opportunity. Since Brexit and the meeting we had in Bratislava on the autumn side last year, just after the Brexit vote as well as in the spring of Rome, I think there is a genuine understanding that the issues need to get further up the agenda in order to build confidence in the whole European market and indeed the whole project. This is an extremely important part. But that is not to say that I can guarantee that everything now will be perfect and that it is just to go on. There will certainly be discussions in the meantime about how well these principles and objectives are being met. Now, however, they are on the agenda, and it is not possible to get away with that. Now it is also up to ourselves, the social partners, civil society and others to follow up and ask: How is it going now? Will there also be more employment for women in the European labour market? Do young people receive better training for entry into the labour market? And so on. We have an opportunity to do something of our own. I think it is a good order that it comes into the semester, because then we get a follow-up mechanism simply.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-607	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister. Good and good! I think I can share my alliance colleagues' concerns about the ambiguity of the Prime Minister's positions sometimes. I can understand that it will be difficult when the Prime Minister has to satisfy me both, who is liberal, who wants to see a social pillar but not more supranationality, no budgetary impact or legislative activity in this area, and at the same time needs to satisfy the Left Party, which wants nothing more than to see legislation and so on. That's where the ambiguity lies. I want to give the Prime Minister a piece of advice. This is not a question. Dump the Left Party! Then we'll have a much clearer line here in the hall. I still think it's time for delivery. There we must all in Sweden, whether we are in favour of the social pillar or not, be able to speak with one voice. I hope that the Prime Minister will try to reconcile the different thoughts that exist in the various blocs.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-611	Madam President, I would like Of course, I cannot have any ambition other than that of being as strong as possible. Let me give you a few things from the preamble to the social pillar. For example, reference is made to promoting the social partners and their importance, taking account of the differences in national systems. It shall facilitate dialogue between them with respect for their independence. It also says about the European social model: taking into account the principle of subsidiarity for the Union's institutions. The social pillar is designed precisely in this way for the simple reason that there is no appetite on the part of any of the Heads of State or Government to suddenly transfer these in a context to Brussels. That's exactly why it's formulated like this.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-615	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the report from the Gothenburg meeting. When I was a young Social Democrat and involved in the Social Democratic Youth League, the OECD, the IMF, the WTO or the World Bank were not at the top of my favourite list. That is why it is great fun now that all these organisations are talking about the fact that growth, which is very necessary, must also be combined with social efforts and that we must combat unemployment in various ways. I am therefore proud to have a Prime Minister here in Sweden who also ensures that the EU discusses these issues. The EU has had a very tough period of financial crisis and other things. The gaps have grown, and this has also contributed to major discontents and very boring election results in a lot of places. Therefore, I think it was good to have a social meeting in Gothenburg. It is a pleasure that there was so much support from many leaders from different political parties who think that we must now put social issues on the agenda as well. For those who feel that power is being transferred, it would have been easiest, for example, when we had a vote earlier in this Parliament, to vote to remove lex Laval. We would have been able to ensure that the European Court of Justice is not allowed to judge Swedish wages, and said that it is the social partners who should be responsible for it, which is a proud tradition. It could also have fought to amend the Posting of Workers Directive. But you don't want any of that. Instead, we are now trying to have another discussion about moving questions to the European level. This is obviously wrong. But the issues need to be highlighted. Otherwise, Europe will be torn apart.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-620	Madam President, I would like I fully share Granlund Granlund's view – when it comes to both the lex Laval and the Posting of Workers Directive, this is a way of increasing power in Sweden. Now the parties can fight for their agreements, which was made more difficult by the previous court ruling and lex Laval, a law of their own which we are now tearing up. This is exactly what this is all about. Then growth and social investment are linked. In my view, this relationship is even so strong that it is basically social security that creates sustainable growth. I want it as a starting point. Ensuring that people have good conditions is not really so damn difficult – excuse the expression. Nevertheless, it is the men and women who work that bring together prosperity. Anyone who thinks they do best with bad conditions has not been out in the workplace, because it is exactly the opposite. If you have the right conditions, it is clear that productivity will increase, so this is a win-win situation. Marie Granlund also rightly notes that among those who came here to Sweden and who have said yes to the social pillar, there is a great political breadth, with everything from social democrats away to conservatives. This is said to be important for increasing confidence in the entire EU project and for the EU to increase its competitiveness. With fair conditions and good social conditions, we get more sustainable growth, as I said.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-623	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for the report from the Social Summit. Fair jobs, economic development and sustainability – both environmentally and socially – are important and necessary goals, not only within our own land borders but also beyond them. The welfare we have in Sweden depends on the outside world and vice versa. I am therefore pleased that Sweden's initiative for a social summit was met in such a positive way by the EU Member States and that the social pillar could be signed. In other speeches, the Prime Minister has touched on the question I wanted to ask, but I would like to have the answer a little more precise and developed. What will be the next step, in addition to the national ambitions of the Member States to work on the 20 principles that have now been agreed? What does the Prime Minister think needs to be the next joint step at EU level to follow up this work and ensure that it develops in a positive direction?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-625	Madam President, I would like What Jonas Eriksson says is absolutely correct. We must see that we are dependent on the outside world. We belong together in a strong way. We have a common labour market. It is even the case that we increasingly have a global labour market that needs to be managed with exactly the same approach. But it'll have to be another discussion. The next step in the near future is as I said that Mr Juncker and I are writing a short report which will serve as a basis for what is to be included in the conclusions of the December European Council. There we are already seeing talk of the semester – what we prefer now is the follow-up mechanism, that we get these principles into the social pillar, so that we can continuously and systematically follow up on developments in employment, education, the decent conditions in the labour market and everything else that is listed here. Then we can gradually follow it, and I hope that there will be more or less a peoples' movement in which all of us political parties, together with the social partners and civil organisations, can follow this, make demands and ask questions about what is happening. Of course there'll be another pressure. I think we will be successful in this, but it will take time. There will be different paces of development in different countries. I'm sure it is. But the direction must be right.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-627	Madam President, I would like As we have heard here, last week's European Summit took place to show the citizens of Europe that the EU is not only concerned with banks, finance, markets and such things, but also about social issues, justice, jobs and gender equality. The Prime Minister has been very clear that the summit did not aim to change the order of decision-making in the EU. The meeting will perhaps have to be described as a round of talks between EU leaders, the social partners and civil society – in itself on important issues. The seminar talked about how EU countries' social inequalities should be evened out nationally by the Member States themselves. The final of the summit was the signing of a non-binding principle document on the social rights of EU citizens. During this summit, Gothenburg was almost a besieged city. The police command has been described as the largest in Swedish police history, all to ensure the security of the arrangement. It was impressive to see that the police succeeded so well. It was nice that the Heads of State or Government of the European Union could go home happy after a successful day – with nice photo opportunities, you could say if you are mean. But that's not what I'm saying-- I'm just saying that there were a lot of photo ops, in addition to everything else. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how he thinks that refined and, in many cases, generally Eurosceptic citizens perceived this summit.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-630	Madam President, I would like I'm sure it could be different. Someone thought this was a practical problem. There were things to be handled in Gothenburg during this time. But there were also those who expressed directly to me that this was good and that they were proud that we got this event to Gothenburg. So I'm sure that's where opinions differ. Here you just have to decide. Either you have summits like this or you don't. If you want them, you can also decide that this is something the others are allowed to do and that we should not do ours. I think that the summits have their function, and that also applies to this meeting. Now we had to focus on social issues, which are It is clear that the EU has not delivered enough at all. Now there was a focus on those questions. There was a signing of this pillar, and now the work will be taken forward. It was not a round of talks, as Maria Abrahamsson said, but there were very good discussions, not least in these three sessions, where, as I said, heads of government and state sat together with students, employees and even union representatives. Afterwards it has been expressed that it was good that we got this meeting in Sweden and that it was fun that we broke it up in three sessions, so that not all of us sat all day and listened to long contributions but got a live discussion. The meeting was also webcasted so that it could be followed around. It is certainly different how this is experienced, but I think we should be proud that we got this meeting to Gothenburg and had the focus on a very important issue that we need to focus on in the future as well.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-634	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his report. Tomorrow, 24 November, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven and the other EU Heads of State and Government will meet their counterparts from the six partner countries Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. The Brussels Summit focuses on the reform work of the partnership and how future cooperation can be strengthened and further developed. The Eastern Partnership was jointly initiated by Poland and Sweden in 2009 and for the Alliance Government has been a very important issue and priority. For us, it is important that Sweden continued to prioritise this and is a leading voice in the cooperation. The Eastern Partnership strengthens the EU's cooperation with the six countries of Eastern Europe and the Caucasus. We can hopefully improve countries' ability to develop into vital democracies and market economies and countries that make their own foreign policy choices, which is important for a stable and secure Central Europe. Through Russia's action, aggression and attempts to hinder the development of the Eastern Partnership, it is important that tomorrow's summit in Brussels be successful. The aim of the meeting is to agree on 20 concrete reform targets by 2020 in a wide range of areas. This applies to everything from energy to public administration and economic development. Unfortunately, Parliament has not received much information on this. There has been no consultation or information. Therefore, my questions will be to the Prime Minister: what is the government's agenda for the summit? How does the Prime Minister view the future of the partnership? What is Sweden's role in this? And not least: How will the Riksdag be informed and receive a report from the meeting?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-639	Madam President, I would like I have prepared myself for reporting back from the Gothenburg Summit, but we can certainly also discuss this. We have exactly the same ambition that Sweden has always had. Here we have continuity where it means nothing if we change the government or majority in Parliament. We stand up for the Eastern Partnership because it is important for the development opportunities in these countries. We stand up for democracy and independence. They should be able to make their own decisions about their future. Of course we'll be there. It has to do with the security of our neighborhood. We believe it is important to show that this contact exists and opportunities to approach. It's exactly the same attitude we've always had. There's no change in that. That's exactly what we're going to push.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-642	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister Stefan Löfven! One of the objectives of the European Union is to reduce unemployment. Its proposal to reduce unemployment in the Eastern European countries is based on Member States financing it through the common budget. A more practical and natural way of stimulating the economic development of these countries would be to allow companies from other Member States to establish themselves in Eastern Europe in order to promote development. They do so by creating jobs, contributing taxes, experience and technological development or sharing experience in the industrial sectors. Instead, the European Commission plans to implement this through the social pillar and within the framework that the European Commission calls solidarity. This means that Swedish taxpayers must pay for the unemployment of other countries. How do the Prime Minister and the Government see the EU paying through its common budget to finance the unemployment and poor social expansion of Eastern European countries?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-646	Madam President, I would like It is up to those countries themselves to design their systems. The important thing here is that the whole of EU cooperation is aimed at just that. Look at developments in Slovakia and the Czech Republic with, for example, the car industry. In particular, German car companies have moved and invested heavily. Those countries manufacture vehicles in exactly the same amazing way as many other countries do with exactly the same quality, and so on. There we also see a great success in the Czech Republic, for example, in terms of employment. It is one of the foremost in Europe and Europe. I mean that is the point when we build a common market. It provides greater opportunities for Member States inside this market. Reality speaks for itself. The desire expressed by Johan Nissinen is already under way.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-650	Madam President, I would like There are many fine words about social pillars and other things. The basis for social development is, of course, that we have prosperous companies, many jobs and that people go to work, work and pay taxes, which of course can be relatively low. As for the discussion on the social pillar, I am a little worried depending on who you listen to. If you listen to the President of the European Commission, you will definitely hear that he has a rather clear line, that Europe should become more federal and should be your supranational. Then it is said that the social pillar itself does not, by definition, become directly supranational. It has been discussed, and Mr Juncker himself proposes that there should be a qualified majority in a series of decisions that would go directly against the national and sovereign integrity of each Member State. It worries me. We had a discussion in the Committee on Employment last Tuesday on the European Employment Authority, which is another proposal under the social pillar by Mr Jean-Claude. There is a clear majority in this House and in Parliament to say no to a European Labour Market Authority, based on national competences. Every step towards this is taking the EU a little closer to supranationality. At least it won't get any smaller. It is a deafeningness from the Commission when we see Brexit and other things that we are trying to load more instead of focusing on core competence. What is the Prime Minister's view on the introduction of a European Employment Authority? What will it mean for a majority in Parliament to say no?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-654	Madam President, I would like In the case of a possible such authority, it is precisely prepared. It is the responsible minister who conducts that discussion with the Riksdag, and that is how it should remain. I keep saying, and it also notes Christian Holm Barenfeld, that this in itself does not change any decision-making competence. It is not a new discussion either. It is clear that there are forces in the Member States as well as in the Commission that would like to have more. The Commission has its right of initiative to make proposals. Finally, however, it is up to us Member States to decide for ourselves whether we think it is good or not. The Commission has an obligation to comply with the Treaty. It also says about employment, about combating unemployment and about a socially inclusive society. It is on the basis of this Treaty that these proposals are presented. However, we fully agree that there should be no increased decision-making powers to Brussels. There is already legislation in the social and labour market fields. It will continue to exist. It's already pretty thick. We have no desire for it to get thicker than that. But it will certainly develop. That is once again the old order. The Commission may propose, and then we may decide on what we think is good.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-658	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the report, Prime Minister. Both the report by the State Ministries and the subsequent Question Time on this point make it clear that there are two important points on which to draw a conclusion. One is what the Prime Minister has said many times now in a good way. That is the importance of the social pillar and of raising social issues at European level. But there is another point that I would like to highlight and possibly get the Prime Minister's views on. The Social Democratic-led government has now taken the initiative and is pursuing an active European policy in stark contrast with the former moderate government in Sweden, which was passive in European politics. It is important to see both these dimensions. It highlights the social dimension and also extends its back and dares to be successful and active in European policy. Because the Prime Minister and the government he leads have dared to roll up their sleeves and take the job seriously, it has been able to present a number of important advances. We have mentioned some of them here as the social pillar. The summit itself represents tremendous progress for an active government policy. We have also seen how the Posting of Workers Directive has enabled us to move our positions forward slowly but surely and restore a balance in the labour market. There are three such important issues that are examples of how an active policy from Sweden can actually mean progress. I think it is important to raise this issue, because it has not only been a lack of social issues in European policy, but the view that perhaps nothing can be done has also existed. It's been a little negative. But now the Prime Minister is showing more confidence in the future and optimism. I would like to hear the Prime Minister reflect on that.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-664	Madam President, I would like Initiatives must be taken. As I said earlier, there is an understanding that these issues must be raised on the agenda. It is quite obvious because people's faith in the future must be strengthened. Then we have a job to do. We cannot have a system where only the market is in place. It is important as a tool, but there must be social security behind this. You have to work hard and argue for your case both in larger contexts and bilaterally and there present your arguments and tell them that this is important. As I said, this is not a question of breaking arms about a limited resource to see who can get the most from it, but this is a win-win situation. We will increase prosperity significantly if people get better social conditions. That is what sustained growth is, and that is what more and more people are seeing now. I was yesterday in Geneva at a meeting with the WTO which has the same attitude: we must have a clearer social link also when we talk about trade relations and how trade should function in a good way. That is what the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund express and so on. So this is just the right time, and then it is also possible to make changes. But, of course, one must dare to push questions. If you do it systematically, you can also have success.
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-668	Madam President, I would like At the end of this presentation from the Social Summit, I would like to focus on another part of the pillar, namely the part dealing with social protection and social inclusion and linking it with what was discussed in Gothenburg. First of all, I would like to congratulate you, because I think this was an initiative at the right time. I believe that social issues are disadvantaged in many Member States. In addition to my mission here in the Riksdag, I am Chairman of Forum Syd, Sweden's largest organisation working with civil society issues. We see how these issues are squeezed back in many of the Member States. We see how many of the EU Member States do not accept their responsibility for minority groups, sometimes forced to flee their own countries within the EU, in order to find a way to survive. We also see public space deliberately being pushed back – shrinking public space – and we see a trend towards dedemocraticisation in many countries where people do not feel that they have a living situation that makes them want to be part of the democracies. We also see in country after country record low turnout figures. I would like to put the broad question to the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister think that those countries that have not really shouldered their responsibilities during the refugee crisis and against their minority groups and others now at another stage are prepared to take greater social responsibility, not only in terms of jobs and growth, but also in terms of these other, somewhat softer issues?
i-7fcf7cc9757d38b8-672	Madam President, I would like I don't think it's just turning your hand and all of a sudden everybody says, "Let's do everything well." I do not think so; we must not be naive. However, as I have said before, I feel more aware that this has an impact on growth opportunities and not least on confidence and confidence in politics. The answer to the question is: yes, that is probably my assessment. Since we took office as a government, we have had a dialogue with Romania and Bulgaria about those who are forced to come here and sit on the streets of Sweden and beg. We have pursued the issue of a change of legislation in internal politics, but we have also talked to Romania and Bulgaria about how we can help each other so that these people do not have to take the bus or car to Sweden and sit on the streets. It is no future for any human being, and we must stop it. For this there is both our cooperation with these respective countries and EU funds. Of course, this has to do with jobs, but it is also about housing. These people must have a place to live. The children should be able to go to school and so on. There's work on this. It will take its time; there is no doubt about that. In the dialogue that we have, we cannot, as I felt the previous government did, just yell at them, but we must have a dialogue about what we can do together. There are also opportunities within the framework of EU cooperation to really change social conditions so that people do not have to beg.
