i-954785c5aa3d5266-14	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me whether and, if so, how I intend to work for Sweden and the EU to act as forerunners in the climate negotiations and for the EU's and Member States' climate funding to be made with new and additional funds. Jens Holm has also asked how I intend to pursue concrete political reforms to facilitate technology transfer to and capacity building in developing countries, and to raise gender issues and the role of women in climate action. The climate summit in Bonn, COP 23, is important to make the agreement and decisions made in Paris in 2015 a reality. This is also why Sweden will send a broad-based delegation with representatives from the Government Office, authorities, the Riksdag and the Sametinget as well as a youth delegate. Our aim is to ensure that both Sweden and the EU act as forerunners in the negotiations. Sweden is supposed to be a pioneer country, and we have never had such good conditions to be as it is right now. We gain credibility through our actions, through our climate law and the climate policy framework combined with new instruments and greater investment in climate and the environment than ever before. With a strong voice within the EU and major international efforts, there are high ambitions in our international engagement. Sweden has been actively involved in drawing up the EU Council conclusions for the Bonn meeting, and I am proud that we have managed to negotiate so that several of the government's priorities are included in these conclusions. We have been very driven to establish the importance of the EU's global leadership, both in the international climate negotiations and in the implementation of the Paris Agreement within and outside the EU. Sweden has also worked to ensure that the EU remains a driving force on the issues that are important for the ability to continuously raise global ambition in climate action. Particularly important for this is that the design of the five-year cycle of emission reductions and its global review lead to a gradual increase in ambition, in line with what is necessary to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The government will continue to work towards increasing and adapting the ambitions of the EU's own climate legislation to the objectives of the Paris Agreement. It's central to the government. New and additional means are a term that is often used. Nevertheless, there is no internationally agreed definition, either within the EU or within the UN. A common definition, which is also supported by a number of developing countries, is that climate finance should be additional compared to the international target of allocating 0.7% of GDP as aid. Sweden's aid has long exceeded the 0.7% target. The government has also significantly increased the aid budget in recent years. It is important to integrate climate into development cooperation, so as not to create parallel structures and to have a real impact on climate issues in key sectors such as energy and agriculture. I fully agree that technology transfer and capacity building in developing countries are very important for moving forward in climate change. However, it is important to distinguish between what can be done in the context of climate negotiations, in other fora or in the countries themselves. Sweden's international climate finance work includes technology transfer and capacity building in many different forms, depending on the needs and design of the efforts. Work to create a favourable policy environment for technology transfer, investment, mobilisation of private climate finance etc. is also part of the broad work being done, for example within the multilateral development banks and by Sida. Sweden is helping to accelerate the development and dissemination of technical solutions that reduce greenhouse gas emissions globally. The government's position is that we should export solutions for the global climate change transition, not emissions. The government has a feminist foreign policy and a prominent role in the drive of high ambition in the work on gender issues and the attention of women's and girls' special vulnerability and needs to climate change. During COP 23, adoption of an action plan for gender equality is expected. Sweden will of course be active in this important process. In the climate negotiations, a gender perspective should be integrated into all relevant negotiating tracks wherever possible, which Sweden has also had an impact on the EU's positions ahead of COP 23.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-25	Madam President, I would like This is an important debate. We know that greenhouse gas emissions are currently the largest in 800 000 years. And this year, 2017, is likely to be the warmest since temperatures in the world were measured. We also know that it is primarily the richest, industrialised states that have accounted for most of the greenhouse gas emissions in the world, while poor people in poor countries are affected here and now by our emissions. So we in the rich world must take the lead in doing most or at least taking the first steps to reduce our emissions. We must also help the poor countries with technology and money so that they do not repeat our mistakes. Yesterday, the International Climate Summit, COP 23, was launched in Bonn, Germany. It is one of several important meetings where we will ensure that we live up to the decisions that were made in Paris in 2015. I am pleased that the Minister for Climate Change says that Sweden is working to raise the EU's climate contribution to the summit. For we in Sweden do not have our own position in relation to this climate summit, but we are following what the EU has decided. It is therefore absolutely crucial. When I went through the position of the European Union, I was disappointed. It is not clear that the EU should help poor countries with, for example, the new and best technologies. Nor does it say that the EU should contribute with climate aid to be financed with new and additional funds, i.e. that the money should not be taken from the EU's and the Member States' aid budgets. I found no clear reference to gender and women's important role being absolutely central to climate action, as the Minister for Climate Change has now stated. It's good if it's like that. In view of what the Minister for Climate Change said, I would like to know: in what way will Sweden work for the EU to raise its climate contribution? Does it mean, in concrete terms, Isabella Lövin, that the EU, with Sweden's support and help, is expected to submit a new climate grant, a so-called NDC, with new, higher climate ambitions? I would also like to ask the Minister for Climate Change a question about climate financing. Does the Minister not think that climate finance should be made using new and additional means, as stated in the UNFCCC? This is, of course, one of the basic documents for these negotiations, and it says that funding should be made with new and additional funds. Does the Minister of Climate Change not think that this means that the money must not be taken from the aid budget? If that is the case, why is nothing said about this in the EU's position for this important meeting? Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that I very much welcome the action plan on gender issues and that gender issues should permeate all decisions on the climate. But can the Minister be a little clearer: what status will the action plan for gender issues actually get?
i-954785c5aa3d5266-34	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for having awakened this important debate at a time when we really need to discuss the climate issue! Both the international community and the EU and Sweden, as well as individual countries, have a responsibility to reduce emissions, and this must be done quickly. It must go even faster than we have been aware of so far. The Paris Agreement increased the ambitions of the international community. We'll try to stay as close to one and a half degrees as possible. We do not yet have the scientific reports or the data needed to know how quickly we will have to reduce emissions. But what we do know is that with the two-degree target we have a climate budget for about 15 years ahead, if we continue with business as usual. So we need to reduce emissions quickly. We also see the consequences of extreme weather events here and now. Almost every week and every month it's something new. It is extremely important for those of us who have the resources and the opportunity and who have a great deal of responsibility for the situation to take precedence. I am proud that Sweden does so with the Climate Act and after receiving the highest marks from all EU countries when independent environmental organisations look at us. How, then, do we manage the positions within the EU circle? It is important to say that Sweden is an independent player during the climate negotiations, and we host events on climate finance, for example, and how to mobilise more. We run issues and have partnerships with the least developed countries, such as the small island nations. So we do not only work in the EU. I had many different questions, such as the gender issue. It is important, and Sweden has, among other things, pushed for gender mainstreaming in the EU's position on transparency in reporting. We want there to be equal participation in the decision-making process, to highlight the particularly vulnerable role of women as well as the role of women as actors for change. There are great opportunities in the climate transition to combat poverty, and women must play a central role in this. In terms of new and additional funds, the rich part of the world promised $100 billion by 2020 and that it will be new and additional funds – that is right. At the same time, this wording should not in any way imply that that is what is sufficient for the conversion. This is a drop in the sea for the enormous resources that we need for both conversion and adaptation, not least for the poorest countries. All aid will be required, but not only that. All the financial resources available will be needed to invest in new technologies and to strengthen infrastructure and water supply and to restructure agriculture. A host of measures and reforms will be required for us to have a sustainable world. This applies not least to the poor countries. Sweden has contributed to the Green Climate Fund in addition to the aid budget. In 2015, we were up to 1.4 per cent of bni. But we are also interpreting the additionality of the aid budget, which means that the additional level is 0.7%, which is the internationally accepted position. Nor do I think it is constructive to see this as a particular small pot. Of course, everything you do must be climate-integrated and climate-proof, and this applies to both the developing countries, the poor countries and the rich part of the world. So it is not a question of two different financial flows.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-43	Madam President, I would like I fully agree that it is extremely important that Sweden takes precedence over climate issues, and in some respects we really go ahead. But I think we can do more. For example, I think that at a summit such as this, it would be good if Sweden had its own position to complement and go beyond the EU's position. Now the EU's position is also Sweden's position. We are not doing anything beyond that. The Minister for Climate Change will be happy to correct me if I have got the question wrong, but the European Union's position is, in fact, ours. The EU's position is not very ambitious. I do not think that the European Union is a forerunner in climate action. It should also be remembered that the EU's climate contribution to the international community was submitted before the conclusion of the Paris Agreement. That is far from enough, if you say so. I would like to ask the Minister: when does Isabella Lövin believe that the EU can submit a new climate contribution to the international climate negotiations? It is to be hoped that the contribution of the European Union is much more ambitious than that which exists today. I would also like to hear a little bit about climate finance. It is good that the Minister for Climate Change says that in any case the Swedish climate funding should be made with new and additional funds, as I understand it. I agree that not everything can be done on the part of the state, but very many must be involved in mobilising funds. But if we do not make sure to contribute new money, it is difficult to demand that others do so. I would like to know whether the government has made any assessment of the EU's overall climate contribution and funding so far. Does the Minister for Climate Action think it is about new and additional funds? Does the Minister think that what the EU and its Member States have so far mobilised is sufficient? I am thinking of the sum of EUR 20.2 billion that the European Union has presented for this summit. Does the Minister think that EUR 20.2 billion in climate aid is new money, and is that enough? As far as climate finance is concerned, as I said earlier, not everything can be done by the states themselves, but very many others must be involved in contributing. Isabella Lövin himself mentions the multilateral development banks, such as the World Bank or the European Investment Bank. I would like to know what the Minister for Climate Change thinks about their portfolios and investments. When I looked as recently as today at the European Investment Bank's latest investments, nothing had been invested in renewable energy but had increased investments in fossil energy. Is this a step in the right direction? We also know that the World Bank has huge investments in fossil energy. And we know that our own pension funds actually have very large investments in fossil energy, that is, in what increases emissions. In what way does the Swedish government act to remove fossil fuels from both pension investments here in Sweden and the multilateral investment banks?
i-954785c5aa3d5266-49	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank Jens Holm for highlighting incredibly important issues. How are we going to adjust the financial flows so that they move in a sustainable direction? From this perspective, it is less important if we have USD 100 billion going to climate finance, when, at the same time, we may have USD 500 billion going to fossil fuel subsidies. It's important for the whole world to change. Sweden carries out a very active work in the development banks, including the World Bank, the African Development Bank and the Asian Development Bank. We have adopted a roadmap for how we as owners and shareholders of the banks will carry out the work to phase out fossil investment. We believe that it is totally untenable for developing countries to lock themselves in old dirty technology when clean technology is usually cheaper, better, healthier and more democratic. It can be owned locally, and accessibility is much greater. In the ownership circle – constituency – of the World Bank that we are in, for example, we have brought our Nordic neighbours along on a specific policy to push forward on the World Bank Board. We are a small owner of the World Bank, but we have disproportionate influence on the bank's policy, I would say. You'd be happy to listen to us. The Bank has certainly increased its ambitions to invest in renewable and climate-proof its assets. Then it is true that there are very old investments that are not sustainable. We are pushing in all these forums to phase out all those investments. It is simply not good investment – neither economically nor in other ways. The EU's commitment of EUR 20.2 billion represents an increase of 15% since 2015. To what extent this is additional to aid of 0.7%, I cannot comment on. I don't have that analysis in front of me. But the important thing is that the whole world contributes with investments that go in a sustainable direction. It's perfectly clear. Then the private sector must also be involved. The EU, like Sweden, is active in catalysing additional private sector investment by providing assistance and special guarantees in this respect. Sweden is the largest donor in the world per capita to the Green Climate Fund. I'm very proud of that. But it also gives a great responsibility for climate finance to work well. Speaking of gender, we have been very careful to push through a specific gender equality policy in the Climate Fund. We must see climate finance as part of the greater development effort, in which democracy, human rights, gender equality and so on are involved. Strengthening ambition is definitely one of our priorities for 2018, when the IPCC will come up with its one-and-a-half-degree report. It will show how much more serious the situation is than what we have been able to base our commitments on so far. We are pushing for the EU and the whole world to be able to update their commitments – NDCs – in the light of that report.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-55	Madam President, I would like It is extremely important that Sweden and the EU tighten up their climate contributions to international climate negotiations. The United Nations Environment Programme recently produced a report which concluded that the global contribution so far represents about one third of the emissions reductions that need to be made. It is a very long way to go before we have commitments that are even in line with a two-degree heating, and preferably we are going down to a maximum of one and a half degree heating. I do not know if I agree with the Minister for Climate Change that it is less important how much countries provide in climate finance as new and additional funds and that it is other money flows that are important. I think it is absolutely crucial that we set an example. When we say that we contribute with climate finance, it should be new and additional funds. We're not taking money from malaria to set up solar cells. We have to do both. I think it is extremely important for the government to be clear about this. I think that the government should carry out its own analysis of the EUR 20 billion that the EU has so far managed to rattle. I think that money is far from new. It's very old aid money that you scrape together. Next week, the Minister for Climate Change will travel to be at the Bonn Summit. I would like to make a contribution to the climate minister: solidarity with the poor countries, which are affected here and now by our emissions! Listen especially carefully to their recommendations and what they say! We must clean up our own doors and reduce our emissions more than we have promised so far. We need to raise more money for developing countries and, not least, new technologies, so that they do not have to make the same mistakes we have made. Will the Minister do that?
i-954785c5aa3d5266-58	Madam President, I would like The Government's priorities are that we should have decisions regarding equality and the rights of indigenous peoples and that we should have increased ambitions in terms of funding. We must live up to what was said in Copenhagen and more. The government has a partnership with the most ambitious countries and actors in the world. We are not passive as one in the mass of the European Union, but vice versa. We are in the Under 2 Coalition, which is a coalition of the most ambitious players, including states in the United States and individual cities. We are also working well with the French initiative, which is about involving the business community in this major transformation. As far as the poorest countries are concerned, Sweden is pushing the question of adaptation very strongly. I said earlier that the private business community will come in with money. I think that is true when it comes to such things as renewable energy, with greater investment where a profit can be made. But when it comes to the more difficult issues, such as how to protect the small and poor island nations from sea-level rise, there is nothing that private business will be able to enter and invest in, but here the Adaptation Fund, the Least Developed Countries Fund and the Green Climate Fund, which have earmarked money for this. We do not see any other financial flows. Sweden is really at the forefront of this. In Morocco, we were one of the few countries that made an extra contribution to the Adaptation Fund. We are pushing that adaptation issues must be very central to the poorest countries. We need to see extra flows where private business cannot enter.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-60	Madam President, I would like Welcome to the role of President! Jessika Roswall has asked me whether I and the government will take steps to enable newly arrived women, regardless of their place of residence, to learn Swedish during parental leave. The employment rate of foreign-born women in Sweden was 56.6 per cent in 2016. It is just over 5 percentage points above the EU average and the seventh highest employment rate for women born abroad in the EU. The employment gap between domestic and foreign born women has decreased from just under 13% in the third quarter of 2005, when the measurements started, to just over 10% in the third quarter of 2017. The labour force participation rate of women born abroad has increased, and so has the share of women born abroad in the total labour force. Although the employment rate of foreign-born women in Sweden has increased and is higher than in many other countries, it needs to increase further, not least in order to meet a large and lasting need for labour in the Swedish labour market. The potential of foreign born and newly arrived people should be better exploited. In September 2017, 32 per cent of all new arrivals were in work or studies 90 days after leaving the start-up assignment. The difference between men and women was almost 16 percentage points. Approximately 22 per cent of women were in employment or studies 90 days after the start-up assignment, while the corresponding proportion for men was about 38 per cent. The establishment must be more effective, and the government takes seriously the difference between women's and men's results after completion of the establishment. The Government has commissioned Statskontoret to compile and develop knowledge about why non-Europeanly born women are more excluded from the labour force and what can improve the conditions for participation in the labour force. An interim report of the assignment will be made on 30 November this year and the assignment will be finalized on 31 January 2018. Knowledge of Swedish is one of several important prerequisites for being able to establish themselves in working and social life. The government has also previously stated that education in Swedish for immigrants (sfi) needs to be flexible in order for students in different life situations to participate in the education. It is also important that new arrivals with parental benefit are given the opportunity to continue to develop their knowledge of Swedish and maintain important contacts with society. Several municipalities already offer opportunities for parents to develop their knowledge of the Swedish language. It is often offered in connection with open preschool. Municipalities have the opportunity to apply for state grants for such interventions via the county administrative boards. In the 2018 Budget Bill, the Government proposes to strengthen these funds in order to encourage municipalities to offer more adapted measures, including in Swedish, for parental leave. The Government also proposes in the budget bill that funds be provided to Swedish Municipalities and County Councils to spread good examples and give municipalities guidance on how they can coordinate open preschools and interventions in Swedish during parental leave.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-66	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Employment for his reply and to start by saying that we agree on many things about the importance of increasing the employment of women born abroad and newly arrived. I have some more statistics. Increasing the employment rate of women born abroad is important for so many reasons. As I write in my interpellation, the government itself states on its website that if foreign born women were to work to the same extent as native born women, the GDP level would be 1.5 percent higher, unemployment 1 percent lower and public finances would be strengthened by SEK 37 billion. This is important. But it is also important for the individual. We know that through work you get community and the power to shape your own life. Add the gender dimension. Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries, but we are not in goal yet. One of the challenges is the employment rate of foreign born women. We also know that women have a lower level of education in their luggage when they arrive. Of course, it also matters what level the SFI should be at. We also know that women's entry into the labour market is lower than men's. In his reply, the Minister for Labour himself mentions the statistics that approximately 22 per cent of women were in work or studying after the start-up assignment. The difference between men and men is 16 percentage points. One might wonder why so many women are less able to enter the labour market than men. These include lower levels of education, less work experience and poor health. However, since we know that labour market intervention is crucial at an early stage, it is untenable that we are not doing more. I agree with the Minister that language education in Swedish for immigrants must become more flexible and find new forms. That requirement has been in place for a while. Although developments have moved in the right direction, teaching is not sufficiently targeted. In many places it is still difficult to combine teaching with practice and work. We must make it possible for newcomers to have more start-ups during the time they are at home with children. The reason for this interpellation was that it was possible to read in the media that there are places where sfi is not offered during parental leave. From the answer that the Minister has given here today, I understand that the Government has commissioned Statskontoret to compile and develop knowledge about why extra-European born women are more excluded from the labour force and what can improve the conditions for participation in the labour force. That's good. Furthermore, the Minister replies that there are municipalities that are already working in this way with greater flexibility and that there are good examples that should be disseminated. I would like to know what is being done more concretely here and now. As the Minister for Labour says in his reply, the municipalities are already working to ensure that the SFI is carried out during the period of parental leave. In principle, I interpret it as an indirect requirement. It is therefore surprising that there are municipalities that still do not have this possibility. I have previously put a written question to the Minister for Labour. I understand that the government also sees this as a problem and that good examples are now being set out. But is that enough? What can the government do here and now to influence and speed up so that more municipalities follow?
i-954785c5aa3d5266-77	Madam President, I would like This is a very important question that Jessika Roswall has been interrogating me about. One of the major differences we have in the labour market is that a large group of foreign-born women leave the labour market after their establishment and thus do not exist in the labour force at all. You can never come up with so many labour market policies, but if they are not in the labour force it will still not help. That is why, among other things, I have commissioned Statskontoret to find out some of the reasons why they are not in the labour force. However, I believe that one can be quite sure that one answer to the question is that they are on parental leave and therefore leave the labour force. It's deeply human. Many people have been on the run, fleeing hellfire, and having been in a terrible period of escape. When they finally get a residence permit and are safe in Sweden, they finally dare to get pregnant, get those children and start the family they have wanted. It's very human that it's that way. As women take a higher proportion of parental leave than men, there is a significant risk that women's establishment in society will be delayed and may be unduly delayed. This is why, among other things, we have removed custody allowance and have limited the number of days you get for the children that already exist when you come to Sweden. More needs to be done to combine parental leave with education in Swedish. One of the difficulties is that when you receive parental allowance and are on parental leave, the law requires you to have spatial contact with the child. The parent on parental leave must have spatial contact with the children in order to comply with the Parental Leave Act and the rules on parental benefit. This means combining care, such as open preschool, with SFI education. This is important. A number of municipalities have come quite far to develop such models. It is important to disseminate the good examples. How can this be done in practice in a way that is sustainable and provides a sufficient basis in the municipal economy with group sizes and other things because people may need different levels of SFI education? There, the resources we provide to SKL will be able to do some good in spreading this. We also provide resources to help finance these efforts in the municipalities. Then there are those who do not charge full parental benefit but are only partially parental leave. Then they can combine with sfi in a slightly more flexible way. Then they are the same challenge as the one who might need to combine SFI with internship or work. They need sfi in flexible times and in different forms. The particular difficulty is for those on parental leave who have to have spatial contact with the child being cared for while participating in SFI education. I hope that the measures we have taken in the budget proposal will significantly improve the situation. However, if this is not the case, I do not rule out the need to make further efforts.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-86	Madam President, I would like We agree on this in many ways. Nevertheless, this is an alarming development that we have seen for the SFI and that foreign-born women are not on the labour market. There is a great risk of them getting caught up in a dependency on subsidies. It is also one of the reasons that needs to be taken into account. I understand that there are many different reasons why this has happened and that there are many different solutions and not a universal solution. But language teaching and SFI are an important factor. The Minister mentions that there is a proposal in the budget proposal. I do not see that these are concrete proposals, but I see more that we should highlight good examples, and a study is now being proposed. That is a good thing, but concrete proposals here and now I would have liked to have had a clearer answer about today. As I said, as far as spatial contact is concerned, there are problems. On the other hand, there are municipalities that solve this, and I find it regrettable that no more municipalities understand that this is actually a requirement and that it should be possible to solve it. It cannot be enough to refer to the need for spatial contact. Even small municipalities can do this, and so should the large municipalities. All municipalities should be able to do this. As far as SFI is concerned, it is not only a problem for women, but it is also a problem that so few complete their SFI course. It is reported that only four out of ten complete it within a reasonable time. This is a problem, and we need to work it out. Sweden is a country full of opportunities, but it is not an undemanding community. It must be possible to impose stricter requirements on integration requirements and stricter training requirements. One way is to ensure that parental leave can be combined with language education. I am reasonably satisfied with the Minister for Labour's reply. I would have liked to have had more concrete answers to what is actually proposed in the budget. I can't really read it out except for doing this investigation. I would still like an answer from the Minister for Labour on what can be done in concrete terms to increase employment and language teaching for newly arrived women. I would like to know if the Minister thinks it is a sufficient requirement that some municipalities can do this but not all of them. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I do not have any further comments in this debate, but I would like to receive a reply from the Minister.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-94	Madam President, I would like We have concrete millions in the budget for the development and additional costs of municipalities in order to be able to carry out just the SFI for parental leave. The most concrete thing that municipalities are asking for is financial resources for this. Of course, other efforts are also needed, such as the provision of teachers, which is also a high priority and where the government is making significant efforts. But more flexibility is also needed to provide SFIs to those who work, for example. If I'm properly informed, the most common reason for not completing the SFI is that you've got a job. It is a small issue if you want people to turn down a job if it is not possible to continue with SFI at the same time. I don't think so. I think it's wise to take a job and that a good way to learn the language is to be out in a workplace. But of course you wish that a person who has been offered a job and will accept it still has the opportunity to combine the new work with being able to complete their Swedish studies. I am sure that more needs to be done in this respect too, and I welcome the fact that we will return to this debate in the future.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-96	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me how I and the government intend to reverse unemployment trends where Sweden is increasingly lagging behind the rest of the EU. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me how I am working towards achieving the government's goal of the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020 and whether there is reason to reconsider or reformulate the unemployment target into an objective that is easier to evaluate. Let me begin by telling you that the labour market in Sweden is strong. Today, far more than 200 000 more people go to work than when the government took office. We have the highest employment rate between the ages of 20 and 64 ever measured by Eurostat in an EU country and the highest in Sweden since 1992. Unemployment has fallen clearly since the government took office, and next year unemployment is expected to fall below 6%. Youth unemployment has fallen sharply, and in 2017 it is at its lowest level in 14 years. Long-term unemployment is the third lowest in the EU. However, major problems and challenges remain in the labour market. The number of asylum seekers who have applied to Sweden in recent years has been at record levels. In 2015, the number of asylum seekers per capita in Sweden was the largest ever registered in an OECD country. Of course, these developments pose challenges as it takes time for newcomers to enter the labour market. To meet these challenges, the government is carrying out a major knowledge boost for lifelong learning and higher employment. Within the framework of the Knowledge Lift, the Government proposes in the 2018 Budget Bill a strengthening of the number of places of study in universities of applied sciences, regional vocational adult education, folk high schools and universities. In total, the knowledge transfer in 2021 will correspond to approximately 93 000 training places. Furthermore, in the autumn budget, the government is investing in strengthening efforts in the labour market and the establishment of newcomers. This is done by simplifying and strengthening employment subsidies in order to increase employers' willingness to employ people with a low level of employment. The government is reforming the system of subsidised employment and pooling a range of existing employment support for a new unified support – introductory job. The government intends to increase the wage subsidy and proposes increased compensation to Samhall and the possibility of loans for driving licence training. Furthermore, the Government is investing in measures to continue to create a sustainable reception and effective establishment of new arrivals. Tracks to jobs are strengthened through, among other things, a new regulatory framework for Arbetsförmedlingen's work with the establishment and introduction of an education obligation. Jobs are the government's most important issue, and despite the fact that it has become more difficult to reach, the unemployment target remains fixed. Therefore, the government in the 2018 budget bill has presented job initiatives of SEK 4.3 billion to get more people in work with a view to the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-105	Madam President, I would like The labour market is a centre of concern for every welfare country. They are strong companies and those who work and pay taxes that pay with their taxes all our welfare, our security and our pensions. Sweden is a small export-dependent country, and no government of course prevails over the world economy. But each government has a very big responsibility to try to counteract the negative effects of a recession and use a boom to equip Sweden for the next recession. Each government should be judged on how to achieve this. During the Alliance we first had a boom and then an extremely deep recession and financial crisis. In the first few years of strong economic activity, unemployment was severely pushed back, and government finances were strong with good surpluses. Important reforms against the great exclusion were carried out, and we were well equipped when the financial crisis struck. Sweden also managed the financial crisis better than most other countries, and unemployment remained, after all, at manageable levels. We received much praise from international assessors in dealing with the crisis. Today's government took office in a strong global boom that has only grown ever stronger. The Minister for Labour is very good at highlighting the positive effects of this boom in his response. However, the fall in unemployment and the increase in employment are quite natural. If the opposite had happened in a boom, it would have been extremely bad. Unfortunately, the picture is not at all as positive as the Minister suggests. Unemployment has stopped falling, despite the boom. For example, the September report of the Employment Service showed the same or even slightly higher unemployment for the fifth consecutive month than a year ago. The same is confirmed by SCB today. Unemployment remains at 6.7%, and it is clear that it has stopped falling. In fact, slightly more people are unemployed than in the previous quarter. In fact, 6.7 percent unemployment in the midst of a booming boom is not very impressive. Long-term unemployment is also troubling. Last summer, 147 000 had been long-term unemployed for more than one year and 77 000 for more than two years. It was even a deterioration toward the year before, and there are frighteningly high figures to be in the midst of a boom. The same is true of youth unemployment. It sounds to the Minister like it's almost disappeared, but that's not the case. According to SCB, total unemployment is 6.7% and youth unemployment is more than twice as high. The serious thing is that the government allows the boom to conceal its own inaction. Instead of taking advantage of the boom and equipping Sweden, you sit passively and let the boom help you hide your failures. In my interpellation, I point to the weakness of government policy. Sweden succeeds in this boom much worse than the rest of the world. Eurostat data show that since 2014, Sweden has succeeded significantly worse than the EU average in reducing unemployment. When the Alliance left the government power, we were in the twelfth place in the EU with regard to the list of the lowest unemployment rates. The unemployment rate was 2.3 percentage points below the EU average. Today, Sweden has slipped down to a fifteenth place, and our unemployment rate is not even 1 percentage point lower than the EU average. The government's objective that Sweden should have the EU's lowest unemployment is becoming increasingly remote. The truth is that the great question of the Social Democrats has caught up with them. The Minister for Labour says that jobs are the most important issue, but jobs have simply been failed. In a strong boom, much more can be expected than this. The Red-Green Government has been under-presiding.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-117	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. When this government took office, there were two clear objectives. The Social Democrats wanted to put jobs first and set a target for unemployment in Sweden to be the EU's lowest in 2020. At the same time, the Green Party promised emission reductions. They said: During our time in government, emissions will be reduced. There are good conditions for both objectives to be achieved. We see how countries very close to us, with which we have a lot of trade, are heading back after a deep financial crisis. The economic cycle is, as it were, advantageous. Add to that that our growth is driven by domestic consumption, and since the job tax deductions remained, there is a possibility for this. In addition, Sweden has more than many other countries an industry that has a great willingness to change. Reducing emissions in the intensive industry is therefore not impossible. But the unemployment target, as it is formulated, is difficult to achieve. We have unemployment below 7%. That's good. But it is frightening, given how well the economy is developing and how strong the Swedish economy is, that we are now further away from the goal, as it is formulated, than we were when the term of office began. When Eurostat publishes figures on unemployment in the 28 countries of the Union, we are not even on the upper half. We can look at the Czech Republic and Germany. They have an unemployment rate of less than 4%. It is becoming more difficult and more difficult to reduce unemployment the closer you get to zero. In this context, it should also be mentioned, as Jan Ericson explained earlier, that unemployment consists of two parts: the one that is affected by the economic cycle and the one that is affected by the policy. The first part is falling in Sweden due to boom. The second stands almost completely at a standstill, except that government policies reduce marginal labour force participation. In its November forecast last year, the Financial Control Agency, one of the government's expert authorities, wrote as follows: D an overall assessment is that the effects of all reforms are cumulative in terms of the number of employed over the forecast period. However, the labour force is reduced by almost half a per cent, equivalent to about 25 000 people. At the same time, unemployment is thus half a percentage point lower in 2019 than it would have been without the reforms. The average working time and productivity, and through gross domestic product, are also falling. The red-green government has therefore not significantly affected unemployment, but rather reaps the benefits of Sweden's current boom. My question to Ylva Johansson is: What has the Minister done, in concrete terms, to permanently reduce unemployment in Sweden?
i-954785c5aa3d5266-125	Madam President, I would like The interesting thing I think is in which direction we are going. We can see clearly that unemployment has decreased since the previous bourgeois government. What is very interesting is precisely the employment rate, as the Minister for Labour mentioned. It is thus the highest employment rate in Sweden since 1992 and the highest ever measured by Eurostat in any EU country. I think this is a very good rating. This is not least a good rating for gender equality in Sweden. One reason is that many women are in work. Of course, we want more people to come out. Sure, we have a problem with newly arrived women. But even in this group, there are quite a lot of people in the world of work compared to what it is like in many other countries. I think the employment rate is actually the most interesting measure. What percentage of the working-age population is working? So that's what's bothering you for a very long time. 200 000 new jobs are a very good result. Then, of course, we have many new arrivals. There were a lot of refugees who came at once. Of course, it takes time for them to enter the world of work. It is clear that they have a period of establishment. But the government is working hard to ensure that the establishment is as effective and as fast as possible. It is about learning Swedish as quickly as possible, that you get to work as quickly as possible and that you supplement education if necessary. Much of this is about: What is done in that situation? One discussion is: What unemployment do we have? How's it going? The second is: What does the government do? Yes, the government now has a historically strong budget. It is a fantastic budget, in terms of both reform efforts and public debt payments. Deficit from the previous government has been turned into surplus. Despite these developments, we are now paying even more off on public debt. We are paying 40 billion to public debt and 40 billion to reform. You can look at the labour market. One problem, of course, is unemployment. But another big problem is the match. These are all job vacancies that are not filled because employers do not find staff with the right skills. The best way to tackle unemployment is also to solve the matching problem. Therefore, the investment in 93 000 training places in the coming years is very good. This will help employers to acquire the right skills. Young people can be helped to get to work quickly. You can help the unemployed to move on. I can only mention one example from the training initiatives. It's about university of applied sciences. 90 per cent of the university of applied sciences go right to work. There's a huge need for people in that part. In the coming years, the university of applied sciences will be strengthened by 45 per cent. There are about 15 000 new places coming gradually. Given that 90 percent get a job, you understand how important such a venture is. The University of Applied Sciences has also asked us to invest more in this because it really leads to jobs. Fast track is something else that we know leads to work. I have examples from Malmö, from which I come. It's about the hotel talent. People who have worked in hotels receive an intensive course in SFI, education in Swedish for immigrants, linked to hotel knowledge. Then they get an internship at local hotels. Basically, everyone gets jobs very quickly. They also learn Swedish quickly. We're going to bet on what works, and the government is.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-132	Madam President, I would like You can choose to set an ambitious employment target, as the government has done. It was very brave to set a target for the lowest unemployment rate in the EU and for it to be achieved by increasing the employment rate and in no other way. While we Social Democrats set that goal, which is now the government's goal, the then moderate-led government set another goal. Fredrik Reinfeldt said that his goal was for 5 million people to be in work by 2020. We reached that goal last spring. Then we passed 5 million people in work – seasonally adjusted. This was not so ambitious. It is a choice that has to be made about how to prioritise resources. We can see that the previous government, at a time when it had SEK 45 billion in deficit and a strong economy, chose to borrow another SEK 15 billion for new tax cuts. The objectives set are a priority for policy. This government prioritises jobs. One assessment we have been able to make of the results so far is: Yes, we benefit from the strong economic climate, just as the old government had for several years. Today, it is estimated that about half of the unemployment reduction is directly attributable to the government's economic policy and about half to the economic cycle. We also get from other assessors steady judgment that we are pursuing the right policies at the right time. One can, of course, theoretically think of achieving lower unemployment, for example, by pursuing a policy that does not give people the right of asylum in our country or by pursuing an extremely cheap policy of providing protection for people seeking protection. You can also choose to conduct a policy with, for example, child care allowance or other things that cause people to leave the labour force. We do not choose any of these routes even though Sweden has received more asylum seekers per capita than any other OECD country has ever done. In other words, the addition of labour is, to a very large extent, people who, for natural reasons, are, at the beginning, very far from the labour market. A significant proportion also have a very, very low level of education in relation to the requirements of the Swedish labour market. Nevertheless, we continue to increase the employment rate. Employment is increasing and the employment rate is also increasing. Nevertheless, unemployment continues to fall. This is a very encouraging development. We received new figures today showing that the employment rate is continuing up. I'm not happy. I see that we have major challenges in the labour market. But the challenges are to see where the problems are. Major challenges lie with newcomers, and helping newcomers enter the labour market considerably faster than has been the case in the past is our major challenge. As far as young people are concerned, we will achieve the goal that no young person should be unemployed for more than 90 days before getting a job, training or an action leading to a job. We are pleased to see that even the oldest in the labour market are now increasing their employment rate, and we see that one of the biggest problems today is that many employers also find it difficult to find people with the right skills. That is why investment in education is so important.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-142	Madam President, I would like First of all, I have a few small comments to make to Hillevi Larsson, who says that 200 000 more people in work are doing very well during the term of office that has soon passed. I would just like to remind you that this is in the midst of a strong boom and can be compared to the fact that in the year of the Alliance, including a major, deep, global financial crisis, we got almost 300 000 more people into work. In that case, I find that more impressive. Then I have to correct Mr Hillevi on a question. She's talking about the yrkeshögskolan and 90 percent moving on to work. That's the case, but now it's actually the case that almost everyone who goes to Yrkeshögskolan already has a job, that is to say, they are training themselves to another profession or further training themselves. It is therefore not a labour market measure, but primarily a skills supply measure. I worked on these issues during the previous Mand attperiod and is well acquainted with the Yrkeshögskolan. It is a very good form of education, but it cannot be seen as a labour market measure. The Minister for Labour talks that half the reduction in unemployment would depend on government policy. I find it very difficult to see in concrete terms what the government has done to reduce unemployment. If we look at the government's own figures in the first budgets in particular, it was rather the case that the government itself spoke of the measures taken in the form of various tax increases and other things leading to higher unemployment than the one taken when it took office. That is to say, it was a negative job effect on the first reforms that the government carried out – or what was called reforms. I would therefore rather say that unemployment has fallen despite the government's policy and not thanks to it. In addition, the Minister for Labour now argues that unemployment continues to fall. But that's exactly what it's not doing. The recent employment services figures show that unemployment has stopped falling. This is confirmed today by SCB, which notes that unemployment this quarter is at the same level as last quarter. There are even a little more people who are unemployed now than there were last quarter. Then one might ask: what happens to the employment rate if the economic cycle deteriorates while we have many new arrivals to enter the labour market? What will the fine employment rate that we have today in a strong boom look like if Ylva Johansson does not act and take decisive action? The most serious thing about this debate and what made me write my interpellation is that the government lets the economic boom hide its own passivity. Instead of taking advantage of the boom and equipping Sweden and making these major and important reforms for the future, so that those who are far from the labour market actually come in, the government is content and lets the boom a little help in hiding their own failures. It always gets a little better in the labour market when the economic cycle is strong. But this only hides the underlying problems, and they are the ones that the government does not want to see. Instead of important reforms for the future, tax-enhancing policies are being pursued that make it more expensive in the long term to run businesses, more expensive to hire and more expensive to work in the form of higher taxes. The government loses sight of the boom and poses huge problems when the business cycle turns downwards.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-149	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the contributions of the Socialist politicians. Hillevi Larsson tried in some sense to mix the cards away. Employment and unemployment are therefore two different things, and that is also one of the reasons for this interpellation. My question is: has the government formulated this objective correctly? The goal is therefore that Sweden will have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020, and this is a further goal than when the mandate began. Therefore, there may be reason to consider whether we were actually not brave but rather foolish and whether we should therefore reformulate that objective into an objective that is achievable and to follow up better, for example, to create half a million new jobs by 2025 or, as both the honourable Member and the Government mention, to reduce the job gap between native and foreign born. A reasonable goal might be to halve that gap by 2025. It is easier to measure and may also be possible to reach. It also mentions taking responsibility for the economy. I'd say it's a truth with modification. Göran Persson, who took over as Minister of Finance after Anne Wibble – who actually did a quarter of the Swedish budget adjustment in the 1990s – did two extremely good things as Minister of Finance. I'll be honest with you, too. He established the fiscal framework with a surplus target for state finances, and he restored the special position of the Ministry of Finance in the Government Office. That's good, but what has this government done? You're adjusting the surplus target downwards. You do not take responsibility for the Swedish economy, which will be noticed when the economic cycle turns around, and we know that it always does in the end. Then one might wonder what it is that this government spends so much money on. What are the big bets? What are the major projects during this term of office? Hillevi Larsson mentions Malmö as a pre-existing municipality. I would like to say that this too is a truth of modification. Malmö is one of Sweden's largest cities. It is close to the continent and has every opportunity to have fairly good growth. Yet it is small crane municipalities to Stockholm that have to save Malmö's economy through the municipal levelling system. Peter Eriksson sprinkles millions over Malmö in investment aid to build new homes. Last week there was news that you have 1,000 homeless children in Malmö. I would not say that Malmö is an example, but it is an example of how red-green politics works at the municipal level. Ylva Johansson continues by mentioning the right of asylum and believes that the Alliance wants to dismantle it. It's pretty daring. The Social Democrats, who have placed Swedish reception at the EU's minimum level, the Social Democrats, who are campaigning with the message that passport controllers guarantee Swedish security, come to draw with the fact that now the Alliance wants to flinch the right of asylum. I would like to say that it is difficult to say that a Social Democratic right to asylum is worth so much if it is possible to apply for asylum at the border while at the same time it is impossible to get there. Promises proudly say that the generous refugee policy inherited was unsustainable and therefore had to be adjusted. It could be true. Both the Government and the honourable Member mention that with so many new arrivals the challenges are greater. It can certainly be true, but also be honest that the foreigner's law that you have now changed did not inherit from the Alliance, but you inherited it from Göran Persson. It was barely adjusted at the edge of the Alliance for eight years. My questions are still as follows: Is the unemployment case really correctly formulated? You are talking about employment, and that may be right, but is the unemployment target correctly formulated? Why is there not a separate target to address the challenges you mention about getting newcomers into the labour market?
i-954785c5aa3d5266-159	Madam President, I would like Let me start with Malmö. The jobs are coming in Malmö. There are many new jobs. The problem is that many of the people who live in Malmö do not get the jobs, but it is people who live in the crane municipalities who get the jobs. Several crane municipalities would not survive at all unless Malmö existed to which the residents can commute. Many municipalities have also escaped by not building rental apartments and not accepting refugees. Malmö has received many refugees. If the workers had valued where they work instead of where they live, the economy would look quite different. This must be taken into account when looking at Malmö and other so-called successful, rich municipalities. Malmö takes enormous responsibility for its population and for the residents of the crane municipalities who work in Malmö. Then there was the question of the initiative to get Malmö residents to work. The investment in new arrivals with sfi linked to special professional knowledge is an example of what is being done in Malmö, i.e. to create more jobs overall and also special investments. These efforts are now being expanded, such as fast track for child care workers. This means that SFI education is linked to the area of child care, and then you get to work quickly. This is happening in sectors where people are needed. The employment rate and unemployment are obviously two completely different things. I've never said anything else. We can see that the employment rate, the proportion of the working-age population, has increased. It's still a good thing. We have also seen that unemployment has fallen compared to what it was like under the bourgeois government. We must not forget that unemployment rose under the bourgeois government. The unemployment rate was promised to fall, but the unemployment rate went from about 6% up to 8%. It has now turned in the right direction.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-165	Madam President, I would like With Jesper Skalberg Karlsson's formulations, one can really wonder if the moderate gentlemen are brave or foolhardy when they take a debate on labour market policy with the Social Democratic Minister for Labour Ylva Johansson. Whether it falls into the brave or foolhardy account, it can be said that the debate for their sakes is somewhat hopeless. The attentive listener can say that. It is always interesting in politics to compare the different options. Let us then compare the Social Democratic Minister for Labour with the three predecessors of the unfortunate time in power of the Alliance Government. The first two were deposed by the Prime Minister because they failed to deliver anything in the field of labour market policy. The third failed Moderate Minister of Labour was dismissed by the Swedish people. It's important to keep that in mind. The reason why the Swedish people deposed the Government's Minister for Labour was that they failed to deliver. That's the background. It's important to remember. The reason why Moderates can never deliver in labour market policies is because they are doing completely the wrong analysis. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson represents those who believe that unemployment occurs by people choosing to be unemployed rather than working. If that choice is a real choice, as it is in Jesper Karlsson's world, then you lower the a-cassette compensation and make sure that it becomes, with a worn-out moderate quote, This analysis sought to conduct labour market policies for eight years. This resulted in two things, namely the destruction of public finances and the increase in unemployment. If – Gud forbid, Madam President – you have the opportunity to try that policy again, it will lead to the same result. The Social Democratic analysis of unemployment is that it consists of two parts. One is that, due to recession, there is a shortage of jobs. Then you have to work on economic policy. The second part is that you need to equip the unemployed to be able to take the jobs that exist. It is the social democratic model to manage labour market policies. That is why, Madam President, social democratic labour market policy will always deliver a much better result than the moderate one. It's as simple as that. The question is whether the target is brave or foolhardy. The Minister for Labour was on that issue. Views can be made as to whether the social democratic objective is high. But we Social Democrats are taking on high objectives in labour market policy. For us, it is a matter of heart to make sure that there is work for everyone. The moderate objective, the objective of the Alliance, Madam President, is exactly what the Minister for Labour said, namely that there should be 5 million people employed by 2020. Now the Minister for Employment was a little modest in his reply that the target was reached in the spring. Perhaps seen a little more long-term we touched the goal during the summer last year. Then there were over 5 million people employed. What the Social Democratic Minister for Labour Ylva Johansson does with his left hand thinks Jesper Skalberg Karlsson is a reasonable labour market target. It's not.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-174	Madam President, I would like A lot of questions have been asked. Jan Ericson wonders what the government has done. The government is pursuing an economic policy that has led to extremely strong developments in the labour market. We are doing this by investing heavily in investments, exports, new industrialisation and, not least, education. This is also done by means of an economic policy that improves the conditions for those who have had the weakest economic conditions for demand. It is a win-win situation because it means a better Sweden that stays together. The employment agency's figures are not the same as unemployment. Of those enrolled in the Employment Service, approximately half are classified as unemployed in the official statistics. It should be remembered that it is of course important to follow how many are enrolled at Arbetsförmedlingen. It's an important measure, not least for me. It is about what resources and so on are needed for Arbetsförmedlingen. But that measure is not the same as unemployment. Jan Ericson asks what will happen to the employment rate. Yeah, it's the one that goes the best. It is most important in the long term and in the long term that there is a high level of labour force participation, which is increasing in all groups, and that there is a high employment rate, which is increasing in all groups. There is now a higher employment rate than ever in the eight years of a moderate government. Even before the financial crisis, there is today a higher employment rate, despite the fact that the composition of the workforce is more difficult to cope with because of all new arrivals who need time. No, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, in this context I have not addressed Moderate migration policy or asylum law issues. I think that was a misconception. I would just like to make it clear that when it comes to comparing Sweden with other countries, I am not going to choose a path that compares with countries that have received extremely few refugees. It is not a way to go to achieve low unemployment. Nor does it compare with countries with very low labour force participation. That's not a way to go either. We will choose the path of high participation rates and high employment rates to reduce unemployment. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson praised Göran Persson for the fiscal framework. I can tell you that it was when Göran Persson was Prime Minister that the framework was launched by a finance minister close to me at the time who was responsible for those issues. The surplus target was set, inter alia, in the light of demographic developments, which saw an ageing population facing it. It was important to save in the barns in order to cope with the ageing population. Now it can be seen that the surplus target was not reached any year, I believe, during the bourgeois period. But at least it was there. Now we have a broad parliamentary agreement. Many parties, including the Moderates, support the adjustment of the surplus target on the grounds that an ageing population is not ahead of us but is already here. We have the huge cost of dealing with an ageing population right now and need the resources to do so. Finally, Madam President, you can always have an academic discussion on how to formulate the optimal unemployment target. I would be happy to have such a discussion. There are several ways to formulate it. Most goals have both advantages and disadvantages. Of course, it also has the objective of the government, so that discussion can always be conducted. The most important thing, however, is that you have objectives that govern the policy so as to ensure results, and this government does.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-184	Madam President, I would like Hillevi Larsson says that unemployment rose during the Alliance. Thank you for that! We had the deepest global crisis we had in maybe 70 - 80 years. Have you heard of the financial crisis, perhaps? Unemployment in Sweden rose from maybe 6 to 8 percent during such a deep crisis. I can inform you that many countries around us enviously looked at the fact that we in Sweden could hold back unemployment as well as we did despite our export dependency when all exports basically stopped in just a few months. Everything fell apart; yet we managed to resist. It is an extremely good achievement, and I actually think that we could get a bit of credit instead of getting criticism. Patrik Björck tells us that me and Jesper would be brave and foolhardy for criticising the government. You don't really have to be either – it's enough to be literate and have a little bit of logical thinking to see that it's pretty stupid not to take advantage of a boom and equip Sweden for worse times. It's pretty easy to see that this equation doesn't make sense today. The Alliance showed that it could deliver. I would like to remind Patrik Björck of some of the debates we had in 2006-2010, where we actually talked about these things. We showed on behalf of the Alliance that we highlighted all those that the Social Democrats hid in various types of statistics. The unemployed were not visible; we made them visible, and many came to work despite the crisis. I still have no answer from Ylva Johansson to why today's government is doing so much worse than the rest of the EU in terms of reducing unemployment in the economic boom. Let us return to that question.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-189	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your previous contributions! Hillevi Larsson says that unemployment rose below the Alliance, but let us look at the economy in a slightly bigger perspective. I would like to say that my generation, those of us born in the 1990s, have hardly noticed the global financial crisis that hit Sweden and the rest of Europe in 2007– 2008. We have not noticed a global financial crisis that has branded a whole generation in Europe, and we owe it to Anders Borg. As far as Patrik Björck is concerned, I would like to make a contribution. As a young member, I often get the tip that those of you who haven't lived so long should read more history. That's the tip I want to give even Patrik Björck. I would like to ask if you really won the 2014 elections. You didn't increase in support. I agree that the Alliance lost and handed over government power, but I find it difficult to see it as your profit that the Swedish Democrats increased in electoral support. Patrik Björck also mentions that we had different ministers under the alliance government. Absolutely, we've changed some. But the record of the outgoing ministers, it's yours. As the Minister for Labour mentions in his speech, one can have a debate on how to formulate objectives. That's what I tried to have. I note that the Minister for Labour does not answer the question of whether unemployment has been permanently reduced with its reforms, but I also note that the challenge of many newcomers entering the labour market is, in any case, being seen. I think it would be reasonable then to have an objective, for example, to halve the job gap between the internal and external sectors by 2025. Then you also put light on where the big challenge is. Of course it is welcome that we have a strong economy in Sweden – Pippi Longstocking-strong, one could say. But we have bigger challenges. It doesn't make us unique, but it does make us need to get to work. I think the government needs to take that on board.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-195	Madam President, I would like Yes, history is always exciting. Youth unemployment during Fredrik Reinfeldt's moderate-led government was so high that the German taxpayers had to take the spring note that Jesper Skalberg Karlsson's party colleagues left behind. That is the facts, Madam President. No, we only have one Minister for Labour in this government, and there is no indication that we would have more. The moderate government had three, and the last one made itself known – or infamous – in order not to make a single proposal in the Swedish parliament. That is the facts, Madam President. It's history. One more thing, to talk history: Fredrik Reinfeldt's failure during his reign is not the first bourgeois failures, but Fredrik Reinfeldt is the third to lead bourgeois governments that have failed. Three times in modern Swedish history we have had bourgeois governments, and regardless of economic cycles and international events they have failed. They have had Fälldin and Bo h man in the 70's, they have in the 90's – Jesper Skalberg Karlsson's generation – had Carl Bildt and they have now in the 2000's unfortunately had Fredrik Reinfeldt. All three bourgeois governments – all three times, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson – have, because they do not understand labour market policies, handed over devastated public finances and high unemployment. Three times out of three possible is three times too much.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-198	Madam President, I would like I will end by agreeing with Jan Ericson: It would be very stupid not to take advantage of a boom and equip Sweden for the future. That's why we do it. We make big investments that will make and make Sweden stronger. It's about jobs all over the country. It's about infrastructure. It's about education. It is also important structural reforms in order to better address many of the major challenges we face, not least with regard to the many new arrivals. The strange thing is that the Moderates, if they have the insight that Jan Ericson has, do not suggest anything that makes Sweden stronger to use the boom for this. The Moderates' proposals are, after all, new gigantic tax cuts. Giant tax cuts in a boom– that's probably one of the most misconceived things you can do if it's for the future you want to invest. Finally, I would like to say to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson: Yes, I can well imagine a goal of reducing the difference in employment rates between native and foreign born. I think it's important. It is decreasing now, but it would have to reduce even more. What is important then is to ensure that there is no narrowing of the gap by reducing the employment rate for natives, but by having an upward convergence so that employment is increased for both domestic and foreign born but is increasing more rapidly for foreign born. That is the development we have at the moment, but it needs to be strengthened. I would like to add that we also need objectives to steer towards a higher proportion being able to get into work or training during the two-year period of establishment. This government has increased that share, but it is still far too low. More needs to be done.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-203	Madam President, I would like Jessika Roswall has asked me what I and the government intend to do to make the procurements at Arbetsförmedlingen work better in the future. The Employment Service will ensure that there are measures to equip people to become established in the labour market. The employment agency does this, among other things, by purchasing services, at a total cost of SEK 6.9 billion in 2016. It is a fundamental requirement for an authority to manage its procurement in an efficient and correct manner. The procurement of the post now highlighted in the media began seven months before the current agreement expires. The procurement was overtested, and Arbetsförmedlingen has assessed that it is uncertain whether court handling will be completed in time. The Arbetsförmedlingen has therefore asked suppliers whether they would be willing to adapt the instruction period so that participants can be assigned until the end of the contract. No one is forced to do so, and the term of the contract is not extended. Around 8% of all public procurements in Sweden are overtested at first instance, and this is considerably higher than in almost all other EU countries. In recent years, the share of the Public Employment Service's procurements has been overtested by as high as 35 per cent. Arbetsförmedlingen is a major player, and many suppliers depend on the agency as a client. However, the Employment Service is doing well and has won 94 per cent of all appeals in recent years. However, the fact that so many contracts are being overtested poses difficulties, not only for contracting authorities and suppliers, but also the risk that individuals will receive less public service than would otherwise have been the case. In June this year, the Government appointed the Report on certain simplified procurement rules, which have been commissioned, among other things, to weigh the pros and cons of introducing rules on fees for applying for review and rules on procedural costs liability. The background to this is that all Nordic neighbours and most other EU Member States have introduced such rules. A self-evident condition is that review rules are designed in such a way that they meet the requirements of legal certainty. The Government has also taken other measures in the procurement field, including new legislation, the national procurement strategy and the support of the Procurement Authority, which together will facilitate the purchasing of, among other things, Arbetsförmedlingen. The Ministry of Labour is following the issue, and the government currently sees no need to take action.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-211	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Employment for his answer. I wanted to mention at least two perspectives in this debate: firstly, the shortcomings in the ability of the Public Employment Service to procure and, secondly, the serious situation that this puts people in. Employment services' labour market training procurement is not a new issue – it has been debated in this House several times and more in the media. It has been about both the impact of the training courses and the fact that the procurements are not in place despite great needs. In addition, as the Minister for Labour says, much money is involved. This time my intervention was prompted by the reply of the Minister for Labour to me during Question Time about a month and a half ago. I then asked the Minister about the procurement of labour market training, when it had been reported that they were not working and that it was lagging behind a great deal. The answer I got then was quite clear. The Minister for Labour said that a large gap in procurement now seems to be mainly addressed in the Employment Service. However, judging by the articles we have been able to read in the media, the problems do not seem to be solved. I would like to make it clear that I fully understand that the Minister for Labour does not intend to go into various procurements, but I do not understand what the Minister for Labour meant at Question Time by the fact that the procurement gap was solved. In the answer today, we hear the Minister say that government procurement should be handled efficiently and correctly. I very much agree with that, but that is not true. I have in my interpellation lifted Basic modules, which is one of the trainings that Arbetsförmedlingen procures. Basic modules are courses aimed at new arrivals – an education that there is a great need for today, of course. And regardless of comments on the procurement or appeals, I am surprised at the reply of the Minister for Labour, at the previous Question Time and here today. You don't do anything, and the answer is a non-answer. When there are only two months left until the new education is started, I think that the way the Public Employment Service handles this procurement deserves some criticism. I do not think it is enough that no one is forced to adjust the instruction period, as the Minister says – no, of course not. But this is about companies that deliver services and that have to adapt to the reality they are in. It just doesn't feel serious. I think it would have been nice if the Arbetsförmedlingen had had a little better foresight. That's one part. The second part that I was going to mention is what the Minister for Labour often raises: that we are in great need of labour today. We are in the midst of a boom, and we have large groups of people who are far from the labour market. There are other courses you can take. For example, we read quite often about truck drivers. Today there are 24 000 individuals in labour market training and 75 000 individuals only in establishment. I think there should be a lot more in education. Or shouldn't it be? That's a question I have. We read time and again that labour market training is not in place and that the procurements are delayed or not working, and I wonder what answers or solutions the Minister for Labour has.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-220	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for the interpellation and the answer. This seems to be a sequel in this House; the Minister for Employment and I have debated it many times. It has now been three years with this government, and unfortunately the results of the Employment Service have not improved. The deficiencies are large and many. In his reply, the Minister for Labour says that the Employment Service should ensure that there are efforts to equip people so that they can establish themselves in the labour market. It goes without saying that this should be the case, as the Minister has said on a number of occasions. Yet we see shortcomings. Many of the procurements that are being made are being appealed, as the Minister tells you in his reply. One might ask why. That's because procurement is often pretty bad. Yet the Minister claims that the Arbetsförmedlingen has done well and has won more than nine out of ten appeals. But the worst is not really the procurements that are subject to review, but the shortcomings and delays in the documents themselves that make it impossible for there to be procurements on time. People at Arbetsförmedlingen have stopped, and the lack of skills has been evident on a number of occasions. There have been reports of major shortcomings in the Public Employment Service in the procurement of training programmes, and this has been done for a long time. For example, vocational Swedish for newcomers was completely undersized after a procurement mistake. A number of vocational training programmes were not able to arrive on time, which affected the construction industry and the hotel and restaurant industry, which had a great need for, among other things, chefs. There have also been major shortcomings in the procurement procedures that have been carried out, and I have repeatedly made interpellations with the Minister about these shortcomings. Among other things, I received a reply that it is self-evident that the authority should manage its procurements in an efficient and correct manner. That's just the way it is. It's simply a head requirement for an authority, said Ylva Johansson. Yet here we are again debating these shortcomings. The truth is, unfortunately, it has not improved. Recently there was a huge shortage of vehicle mechanics and professional drivers. Arb ettförmedlingen then lost in the breast-feeding right. It's been low quality. Not only has there been an appeal, but this has been done because there have been poor quality and shortcomings in the actual procurement documents. This also means that it is not only the companies that will deliver the training that are affected and may terminate the staff. It is extremely sad and tragic for the people who need the training in order to get a job. We know how many people need these training courses in order to get to work. This will be bad for society as a whole. In previous debates today, we discussed unemployment. We know that there is a large group where unemployment does not shrink but grows – in a boom. Having to redo a number of contracts that are lengthy means a huge amount of work. The Minister must ensure that there is competence and an organisation within the Public Employment Service that allows us to get away from these long and tough appeals and the shortcomings that arise. The internal work of Arbetsförmedlingen has major shortcomings, and the Minister should put his gunpowder there. It would be interesting to have an answer to what has been done in this matter.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-230	Madam President, I would like These are important issues we are discussing. It is absolutely central, just as interpeller Jessika Roswall says here, that there are good educations when they are needed for the unemployed at Arbetsförmedlingen. The government is investing heavily in regular education, because we see that is what many people need. However, labour market training also plays an important role in labour market policy. I do not agree that it can be said that AF's procurements are bad or that AF does not have the ability to procure. I do not think it is possible to draw that conclusion. Let us have a serious debate. There have been problems at Arbetsförmedlingen, where the procurement process has not been started in time. When an agreement expires, the process for the next has not been started in time, and then there will be a gap. But it is my assessment that this has been corrected. However, the problem of ensuring the whole thing and dealing with appeals remains. The issue certainly does not have an easy solution, nor is it something that the Employment Service itself can solve. Approximately 8 per cent of public procurements are overtested. Thirty-five per cent of Arbetsförmedlingen's procurements are overtested. It is therefore a very large proportion. However, it is not all. The employment agency can never know in advance whether a particular procurement will be overtested or not. This makes it almost impossible to assess how long it will take before you have a final decision on a procurement. In general, public procurement loses 22% of the cases where they are reviewed. The employment agency loses 6% of the cases that are being examined. It is thus in a very large majority of Arbetsförmedlingen's procurements that it is concluded that Arbetsförmedlingen has made a correct assessment, despite the fact that a large proportion of the procurements are overtested. But even if it is in 94 per cent of the cases that Arbetsförmedlingen wins in an appeal, one cannot for sure know that. This uncertainty for both suppliers and authorities and the unemployed lies in the fact that we have this possibility of redress, which is much more used in Sweden than in most other comparable EU countries. That is the background to the fact that the government has now set up an investigation to review this. This is not an easy question, because the possibility of over-titling public procurement is of course also important. At the same time, however, we see that this leads to completely unreasonable conditions, where it is impossible to assess how long a procurement will take. This makes it almost impossible to get into a situation where the process has begun in time to have the new procurement in place when the old contract expires. This is an issue that applies not only to the Public Employment Service but to public procurement as a whole. I look forward to the work of the investigation, but I also realise that it is a delicate work and difficult balance that the investigation should do.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-237	Madam President, I would like I understand what the Minister for Labour is saying now, but I do not share the view that the gap would now be fixed. I find it sad that this is not the case. We can of course discuss Arbetsförmedlingen procurements and whether we think that the way they are managed is good or bad. Statistics can be turned and turned either way. But I find this a little hard to understand, because what the Minister for Labour highlighted in his first speech was precisely that the Swedish Public Procurement Authority should provide support to the Public Employment Service. It can be interpreted as meaning that we know they need it. As Katarina Brännström has explained, there are a lot of procurements that actually do not work. We have several examples of this, and I highlighted one here today. As I said, this is not the first time we have discussed either labour market training or the Public Employment Service, which now shows once again that it is not succeeding in its task. I find this remarkable and, moreover, I have taken on board the words, as the Minister for Employment mentioned, in an effective and correct way. I think this is serious, and it should be taken more seriously. It is known from the past that we Moderates believe that other, well-functioning players should be brought in to match education and ensure that those who can do this work today can do it better. Municipalities should also be able to do more in the field of employment services in order to get people to work. We have not touched the Swedish Public Procurement Authority so much, but of course I think it is good that they should help Arbetsförmedlingen. I have no objection to that. However, I think there should still be a little more self-examination with the Minister when one sees that too many procurements have failed. It is good that the government is setting up an investigation to simplify procurement rules. We have not talked about that much either, but it does not make the problem that we have here and now less. I think it would have been interesting to have a discussion about the role of the Public Employment Service and that they are unable to do their job either in terms of procurement or to ensure that the matching works better.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-244	Madam President, I would like We have just listened to the Minister for Labour, who says that AF's procurements are not bad. It is a strange expression when we see how many appeals are being made and when we see how many training places have either been completely wasted or have been delayed. It is not acceptable when the Minister says so. The glitch is gone, says the Minister. Yes, it is possible that they have become slightly fewer. But they're not gone. It is the appeals that are the problem, says the Minister – as if it were only the suppliers who are the complicated ones and that they are the ones who are arguing with the Arbetsförmedlingen! Why is 35 per cent of the procurements of the Public Employment Service being overtested? There's probably a reason for that. Those who will deliver the services experience major shortcomings in the procurement documents themselves. That's why you appeal. This creates uncertainty and long lead times, and it leads to poor planning both at Arbetsförmedlingen and at the suppliers. What is the organisation at Arbetsförmedlingen like? Is the Minister satisfied with the organisation of the Employment Service? I also wonder: does the government have any ideas on another way of solving the issue of labour market training when the Employment Service does not work? We can see that the investigation initiated by the Alliance Government, which was then thrown into the wastebasket by the Minister for Labour, would have been very good to have a few years ago. Then one had a good idea of what worked and did not work at Arbetsförmedlingen. We stand here and note once again that the Arbetsförmedlingen is not up to its task. It does not deliver jobs or training to those who so badly need it.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-248	Madam President, I would like I would like to start where Katarina Brännström left off, namely by saying that it is not only the suppliers who are complicated when there are appeals. Let us look historically at Arbetsförmedlingen and how it has been in the past. They themselves have admitted that they have a glitch in the system. The minister thought it would be a short time. The employment agency had simply forgotten that the agreements expire. It was not kept under review, which meant that when the agreements were to be signed they had very little time to take in new contracts. Seven months have been mentioned here in the debate, and that is a very short time. A minimum of one year is needed if a procurement is to be conducted. The best thing, however, is to have a procurement process that starts after the contracts have been concluded. This means concluding the agreements and then following up on the way forward. Then you also know which suppliers deliver in a good way and which suppliers deliver less well. That way you get a good anticipation. You start the process and have it all the time started, with feedback to be able to have new contracts in place when the old ones expire. With this, you can also get fewer appeals, i.e. if you have an analysis of good suppliers along the way and where you get good results. After all, this analysis takes time, and it should therefore continue while an agreement is under way. What also tends to complicate in procurement is that you have a purchaser who does it. However, that person is a professional at making procurements, that is to say, the actual purchasing base, while this must be linked to those who know what is needed – SFI teachers and so on. It is very important that those who are professionals in their professions are involved and involved in the process of developing a good basis. This is not happening everywhere in this country, but far from it, we should say. What is also important is that the person who is the purchaser, as we have reasoned, should be linked to the management teams. It is a strategic tool for getting it right. As a final point, I would like to add that there are very many people who cannot afford to lose and who are now in line to do what they have to do in order to get into society. That's more than unfortunate, I suppose. I and the Minister have debated the chefs before, and they were mentioned here again. This also applies to those from vehicle technology. So there is much to do, and I very much hope that the Employment Service is on its toes.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-254	Madam President, I would like Let me be clear: I believe and believe that the procurements of Arbetsförmedlingen can be further improved. However, it cannot be concluded from the fact that 35% of procurements are subject to an appeal that the Public Employment Service conducts poor procurement. Nor can it be said that they do good procurement, but that is not the basis for saying that these are bad procurements. The fact that many contracts are being overtested, at least in my view, is not due to the fact that the suppliers are complicated. Instead, it is a sign that it is a large and important part of their market that Arbetsförmedlingen procures. The employment agency is a very large player; it procures EUR 7 billion a year, of which EUR 4 billion are complementary players, i.e. private service providers. It is clear that this is a very important market for them, and it is clear that many for that reason may choose to have their procurement overtested. The fact that the Public Employment Service loses only 6% of cases, which is a much smaller proportion than for other authorities, may not be proof of but at least a clear indicator that the Public Employment Service has, in fact, often – in any case, according to the Court's review – made the right assessment. However, the problem remains that this is a difficult time frame for this type of review. Will it be overtested or not, and if so, how long will an appeal take? That is a very difficult question. To Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson I would like to say that there has been a glitch. This has been missed by the Swedish Public Employment Service. With regard to the gap and the fact that the processes have not been initiated in time, it is my opinion that this has, in any case, been mainly addressed. However, the problems of difficult timing depending on appeals remain, and this is not an issue that the Public Employment Service itself can deal with. Rather, it is a bigger issue that concerns public procurement in general and for which the government should take responsibility. We have also done so with the new investigation, which has to consider whether other efforts need to be made. I was asked by Katarina Brännström if there are other ways than procurement to handle labour market training. Yes, there may be, and that is why there is an additional assignment to the Labour Market Investigation to look at this. This means that perhaps you should cooperate with municipalities or conduct them in your own direction – or in some other way. But I think it is worth looking at other ways than procurement, because – even when the Public Employment Service adjusts for its mistakes when it comes to glitches – we still have recurring problems in managing procurements in one way for the unemployed, for the Public Employment Service and for the suppliers acceptable and good way. In parallel with this, we are also investigating whether restrictions need to be placed on the possibility of appeal.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-260	Madam President, I would like Now we got some more nuanced answers, I think. I agree with the Minister for Labour that it is not the statistics themselves that determine whether the procurement unit of the Employment Service is good or bad, but the fact is that we still have a huge gap, that it still takes a long time and that there are still many labour market training courses missing on the ground. I also think that the latest, which I have highlighted in the interpellation, shows that this has not been dealt with seriously. I thank you for having this debate and discussion anyway. What I have not received much response to – the discussion and the debate perhaps took a different turn – is that we have a shortage of labour in Sweden, throughout the country. I highlighted the example of truck drivers. So there are many arguments that this type of activity must work. Nor do I think I have an answer to the question as to whether the Minister is satisfied with the number of people enrolled in labour market training. I said there was 24,000 in the establishment. Is there something that should get better? I would have liked to have had an answer to that. As I said, the Minister for Labour nuanced her answer to the question of how she views the Public Employment Service's procurement, but it still sounds like Ylva Johansson is satisfied with the Public Employment Service. I would like to point out that I and the Moderates think, as is well known, that it is time for the Employment Service to be reviewed. It is time to abolish Arbetsförmedlingen and replace it with a smaller, sharper player who actually manages its tasks. Is the Minister for Labour satisfied with the Employment Service? Thank you for the debate.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-266	Madam President, I would like If the Arbetsförmedlingen has caught up – if we say that the gap is over – it will be especially important to be involved now in the current agreements, so that you are out in good time. It is also a way to prevent an appeal, to be out in very good time with what to do. Then the appeal can have its time while you have the agreement. In this, too, are the courts, on which we have not been here. What times do they have? What opportunities are there to change something there? Are they doing this effectively? Finally, I would like to ask another question. The investigation into what it looks like in Sweden and that we have an extra number of appeals here compared to other countries is ongoing, and it will be completed next year. There are thoughts that I have seen in written answers from Mr Shekarabi, who will come to the House later. The Government there mentions that there is a signal value in the possible introduction of such charges, and I would like to know how the Minister for Labour views it.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-269	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the debate. I am sure we will come back to the issue. In terms of labour market training, two things can be said. There are very strong reasons and arguments for the need to invest heavily in labour market training in the current labour market situation, with major shortcomings in many skilled people. If I am properly informed, the Moderates want to cut back on labour market training, and that might be the wrong signal at this point. However, it is not enough to have labour market training, but they must work better than they do today. I see significant challenges. I see the problem in the fact that labour market training is sometimes in competition with municipal vocational adult education, where professional adult education sometimes provides the same training as that available in labour market training. It can be a problem when there is competition between them and when one gives grades and the other does not. I see significant challenges in terms of transitions to work. The number and proportion of people moving from labour market training to work have increased, but it is still at a significantly lower level than in the past, when the previous government changed the regulatory framework. I also see significant challenges in terms of speed. Unlike regular training, labour market training should be able to be more flexible, faster and take account of regional skills shortages to a greater extent than is currently the case. I am sure we will have to come back to these issues in the future.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-275	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to seriously reverse the trend in unemployment among foreign-borns. Since the government took office, employment has increased by over 200 000 people. About 70 per cent of the employment growth has occurred among foreign born children. The employment rate of foreign births is now the highest since it started to be measured in 2005. The official unemployment statistics from SCB also show that unemployment continues to decline. At the same time, we are seeing an increase in the number of unemployed registered at Arbetsförmedlingen. This is an expected development in the wake of the very large reception of refugees in 2015. Despite the good development, it is a big challenge with many new ones in the Swedish labour market. This is why the government has taken a number of initiatives for a more coherent and systematic approach to reception and establishment. A residence law has been introduced which provides for a more balanced reception of new arrivals in municipalities, taking into account the labour market situation and population size but also the overall reception in the municipality. In the 2018 Budget Bill, the Government is investing in strengthening efforts within the labour market and the establishment of newcomers. The government is reforming the system of subsidised employment and pooling a wide range of employment support for uniform support – introductory jobs. The Government also invests in measures to create sustainable reception and effective establishment of new arrivals. A new regulatory framework for the establishment of newcomers in working and social life will enter into force on 1 January 2018. The new regulatory framework aims to reduce administration, improve conditions for flexibility and strengthen Arbetsförmedlingen's ability to impose requirements on the individual. The transition of more people to education is crucial to reducing unemployment, meeting labour market needs and tackling the two-way labour market in the long term. Roads to education have therefore been strengthened. As of 1 January 2018, the Government will also strengthen the requirements for all unemployed persons who are deemed to be in need of training to apply for and benefit from regular training provided under a labour market policy programme. An education obligation for newcomers is introduced. In the budget bill, the Government has also presented efforts to promote the participation of more women born abroad in the labour market. These include efforts to increase women's entrepreneurship, further promotion of the Delegation for Young People and Newcomers to work, and resources for study associations for outreach and motivating actions specifically aimed at foreign-born women. Further raising the employment rate of foreign-borns, especially women, and breaking long-term unemployment are high government priorities.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-285	Madam President, I would like This issue is serious – it is perhaps the biggest and most important issue that we have politically at the moment. We can discuss migration policy and sometimes have a very inflamed debate about it, but integration policy – and ensuring that the people in Sweden today come to work and earn their own living – is the key to our entire welfare society and to making society work. I also believe that the Minister for Labour agrees with this as a principle. Unfortunately, almost 1 million people today are excluded and dependent on benefits, despite the boom, and very many of the new arrivals are not included in these statistics. There are 130 areas where fewer than half of those of working age work. It takes nine years for even half of the new arrivals to be in some form of work. Despite the boom, the proportion of people in work or studies 90 days after completion of the establishment plan has only marginally increased since 2014. The proportion of people who have received jobs without support and subsidies has not increased at all. As I say in my interpellation: In September, the unemployment rate of foreign born was 22%, while that of domestic born children was under 4%. This is an extremely large job gap, which the government does not seem to take seriously. One should also know that a large part of the new arrivals that came to Sweden in 2015– 2016 are still not visible in the statistics. Yet it looks this bad, in the middle of a boom. For us Moderates, the dual labour market is our main focus in labour market policy. We want to start by halving the job gap between domestic and foreign born by 2025, and we have a policy for that. The government, on the other hand, seems to lack politics. You've tried a lot of different things, but there hasn't been much success. Out of 32,000 trainee jobs, there were 473. Out of 20,000 extra jobs, there were 3,700. Out of 20,000 training contracts, there were 2,555. Of the 5,000 standby jobs, there were 194. Matching jobs are barely measurable. As far as the fast track is concerned, it is 11⁄2 percent of those in the start-up mission who have come into this. We heard mention in the previous interpellation debate that the fast track would have been a success, especially in the restaurant industry. The reality, however, is exactly the reverse – for example, the Chairman of Visita has called it absolutly bad thing. This has failed completely. The 100-club was supposed to get a lot of work, but there's only been 242. This is how you can go on. 80 000 people are in the start-up mission – the government's actions are of no use. The serious thing is, once again, that the government allows the boom to conceal its own inaction. Instead of taking advantage of the boom and doing sensible things that produce results, so that new arrivals come to work, the government is satisfied and sees that the overall picture still looks pretty good on the labour market thanks to the boom. However, one forgets that one has made too big a problem when the economic cycle turns downwards if one does not take this seriously. This is where strong reforms should be implemented to get newcomers to work – preferably in real jobs, not just in action. If we do not manage to do this better during a boom, it will end badly when the economic cycle turns downwards. Unemployment will rise to troublesome levels, leading to social problems and weakening public finances. There are only ten months left before the elections, and then the Swedish people can choose a more effective government. But Sweden does not really have the time and money to wait ten months for important reforms. My question to the Minister for Labour is whether she and the government will continue to watch passively when the boom is helpfully hiding the problems or whether she has something concrete to offer to deal with the situation.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-298	Madam President, I would like I think it is important that when you look at the new arrivals you see that they have different backgrounds. They're different as a group. We have illiterate people, who cannot read and write in their own native language and who may not even have completed the corresponding primary school in their home country, but we also have people who are university-trained and who have been training and working for a long time in their home country. Therefore, I think that it is very important to have individualisation already from SFI, Swedish for immigrants, in order to be able to learn and get into society as quickly as possible. Part of this is about traumatisation. We know that there is a group that has traumas from its home country – a group that has been subjected to torture, war and oppression of various kinds. People in this group may have family members in their home country who they lack and are worried about. Unfortunately, this often has a negative impact on the learning process. One example of that something can be done about it is what we have done in Malmö with trauma treatment. Along with participating in SFI, Swedish for immigrants, you get treatment and help for your trauma, for example that you can not sleep at night. I think we need to move forward with personalization in order for people to learn Swedish as quickly as possible, get into society and get jobs. It is clear that we want to get these people into work as quickly as possible, but we must not forget that there are some people with skills. It is perhaps better for society to allow these people to undergo a validation of education from their home country in order for them to be able to come out and cover gaps in the Swedish labour market when people are needed. Sometimes it is said that we have the best trained corps of taxi drivers in Sweden. It's something of a myth that people don't want to get into work – a lot of people want to get a job quickly – but of course many hope that they will eventually be able to work with what they are trained and have skills for and that they have experience with. We now face the challenge of getting people into work as quickly as possible. In some cases, however, it is better that they validate for some year and then come out and work on what they can, instead of driving taxis. There is nothing wrong with being a taxi driver, that is not what I mean, but you have to invest the resources in the most effective way to both get people into jobs and solve the problem of labour shortages that we see in Swedish society and which is as big a problem as the unemployment we have. This is not an easy challenge, and I do not think it would have been easy if we had had a bourgeois government. That is why there are no simple solutions. However, the government has a very comprehensive programme, which deals partly with training initiatives, where many of the new arrivals can be eligible, and also with special initiatives for new arrivals to come out quickly. I do not think, however, that the solution that is sometimes presented, that we should have a lot of low-wage jobs, is the future for Sweden. I do not think that solves unemployment, because there is still a limited market for so-called simple jobs. There are really no easy jobs. All jobs require their knowledge and some have very tough conditions – heavy jobs that many people can't cope with during a whole working life. I think it takes both, to quickly get people into action that leads to jobs and people to work with what they are trained for. It will win the entire labour market.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-309	Madam President, I would like One can choose to conduct the debate in different ways. You can choose to give discards and say that trainee jobs and training contracts were developed at a time when we had so high youth unemployment that we received EU support to deal with it. It was during the bourgeois period. Now we have changed economic policy. We have strong job growth and strong economic growth, and a lot of young people have got jobs. Youth unemployment is the lowest in 14 years, and in the case of young people who are not full-time students, you have to go back to before the 1990s crisis in order to find as low figures as we have today. But, Madam President, I think we should talk about the real problems and challenges because they are significant. The big problem is not that very many people today live on insurance or benefits. There are historically low levels of people who make a living on this. The major challenge today is that it is taking far too long for newcomers to get to work, especially in the case of this non-European born, and especially in the case of women. We must do far more than we do today. Then you have to make structural reforms. If you continue to do what you have always done, you will probably get the result that you have always had. This is why the government is implementing five major structural reforms to speed up the entry of newcomers. The first is a settlement law that says that all municipalities in Sweden will receive new arrivals. It is an extremely important reform. Not all new arrivals should live in certain neighborhoods, and they should not be directed to living at home with relatives. They will be distributed throughout the country, and they will be distributed taking into account where the jobs are – an extremely important structural reform. The second structural reform is the change in parental insurance. We have abolished the custody allowance and introduced a limit on the time and number of days you get for the children who already exist when you come to Sweden. It is in order not to create a trap, especially for women, for too long at home. The third structural reform is a change in the establishment mandate. The bourgeois government introduced the mission of establishment with the rights of the new arrivals. I think that's good. Now we are adding obligations to the new arrivals. It is classic social democratic policy: right and duty, duties and rights. It is an important structural reform. The fourth is an education obligation introduced on 1 January. We now have a historically large proportion with very low levels of education to enter the Swedish labour market. Then one must invest and also make individuals obliged to equip themselves by means of education. That is why we are introducing an education obligation. The fifth is that we are building on what has actually been a success with the fast track. Now we are also addressing those who do not have professional experience. We build local job tracks, where you tailor paths to work, even to jobs that do not require long education but require training for those who have not worked in Sweden before. There are local job tracks to cleaners, to work in the home service and in the local industry. In this way, we must dare to make the structural reforms that are necessary to enable us to significantly increase the proportion of newcomers in work in the near future.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-319	Madam President, I would like I sat and looked at the figures from Eurostat. Ylva Johansson criticised that the Alliance received support to reduce youth unemployment during its time. Then I can remind Ylva Johansson that in 2015 the current government received 120 million in EU support to combat youth unemployment – just as an information. In the previous debate, some were discussed what we Moderates want to do. That's why I'm going to mention a few things. We have comprehensive proposals for reforms in the school system to help newcomers. We want to extend compulsory schooling for pupils who do not qualify for upper secondary school, introduce schooling, set up a new vocational school for students who want to learn professions quickly, and we want to increase the number of teachers who can teach at SFI. Together with the rest of the Alliance, we have also presented a new labour market reform, which we call entry jobs, aimed primarily at new arrivals and also the low-skilled, where you can get wages for 70% work and where 30% of working time is spent on learning the work. We want to raise the ceiling for the RUT deduction, which is a good way for newcomers to enter the labour market. We also want to change the obligation to integrate with demands to participate in Swedish education and social orientation. We want to introduce a premium ceiling that makes it more profitable to move from welfare to work. And we're cutting taxes on labor. These are the things that we Moderates, together with the Alliance, propose to do something concrete about the situation of the new arrivals. We take this issue seriously. I repeat, there are ten months left before the elections. The question is whether we have time to wait ten months to do all these things. Having read out these examples, I would like to ask Ylva Johansson: Is the Minister for Labour satisfied with the results of his own actions? Are they that good, have they succeeded any further? I would like an answer to that. It is easy to say that this is difficult because we have so many new arrivals. It is easy that we use it as an excuse because it looks like it does on the Swedish labour market. But I would like to remind you of Germany. Germany is the country in Europe that, in addition to Sweden, has received the most asylum seekers. In Germany, unemployment has fallen from 5% to 3.7% since 2014, despite the arrival of new arrivals. In Sweden we do not see the same development at all. Then the question is, what is the reason for this? Possibly it depends on what government you have. That the large reception of asylum seekers is problematic in many respects, we all know at this time, but as a government we cannot just settle down and say that. You have to act. If we do nothing now, we are causing major problems in the future, as I said in my previous speech, both social and fiscal problems. Many new arrivals have a long way to the labour market. If the economic cycle at the same time turns downwards, we have major problems ahead of us in the coming years. Any Minister for Labour should feel a great and deep concern for the future rather than trying to make the situation look good. All the effort should be put into dealing with the situation. But the government is almost passive and allows the boom to hide underlying problems in the Swedish labour market. And the few measures you present are the most beautiful words but with very poor results. I repeat my question if the Minister for Labour does not realise that many new arrivals are entering the labour market at a time when the economic cycle is turning downwards. Then what's she gonna do?
i-954785c5aa3d5266-332	Madam President, I would like Germany was mentioned as an example. There they still have a housewife model. A lot of women are at home caring for their children instead of working, and childcare is not fully developed. It is clear that the figures can then look very good, because it does not look like these women are unemployed. They're home with their kids. They're housewives. The question is whether this is the objective. During the bourgeois government we had custody allowance in Sweden, and it is also a form of housewife model. All the surveys showed that women were locked up, had difficulty getting into work and had difficulty getting good pay if they came to work. I do not think that is the future of Sweden. It is quite right that the government is doing with broad educational efforts and special efforts on the new arrivals. What the government has launched is the Knowledgelift. The same name was given to the initiative a number of years ago, which halved unemployment from 8 per cent, which was handed over by the then bourgeois government, to 4 per cent. We were laughed at because we couldn't make it. But we did it, and it shows the strength of education. Educating people for both present and future labour markets is much stronger and can both reduce unemployment and fill gaps in the labour market. I believe that the effort to take out loans for driving licences is crucial for the whole labour market, not least for new arrivals. They often have poor finances and cannot afford to take a driving licence. At the same time, many jobs require driving licences. I myself have met unemployed people who have said that it is part 22: I must have a driving licence but cannot afford it. Therefore, this is one of many important initiatives that the government is making to get both new arrivals and others to work.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-337	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson asks if I'm happy. Tok either, on the contrary! We have incredibly big challenges. However, different ways of meeting challenges can be chosen. You can lie down on your back and wriggle with your legs and whine in despair. Or you roll up your sleeves and make investments and structural reforms. We'll do it later. I certainly will not wait for the economic cycle to turn downwards, but we are now taking action. I have just gone through the important structural reforms we have done, but more needs to be done and more investment needs to be made. Sweden has significantly higher employment rates than Germany. In the case of foreign births, the employment rate is close to the employment rate for natives in Germany. We certainly have things to learn from Germany, but there are more people who work in Sweden than in Germany – although Sweden received twice as many asylum seekers per capita. Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson told me about Moderate politics, which was exciting. I thought I'd take this opportunity to ask Jan Ericson a question about something I don't understand when I read your budget bill. This is what it says: There are also tasks that are not performed even though it is likely to increase productivity. It is important that the social partners open up new types of employment, which make it possible to adjust employment costs more closely to productivity than at present. Policy-makers should support such initiatives. If the parties are unable to reach agreements on simple jobs, a new employment contract, a security contract, which gives the same rights as when one is covered by collective agreements and trade union membership can be established. What does this mean, Jan Ericson? A new job, a security job, which gives the same rights as if you are a member of the union and are covered by collective agreements– but still do not, right?
i-954785c5aa3d5266-342	Madam President, I would like You can tell about Germany and say that it is a housewife problem and that is why you have such low unemployment, but we all know that it is only part of the truth. Germany has a strong labour market, and we will learn from that instead of ralliing. Education is good. We're going to educate people. However, we who have visited SFI activities and adult education know that many people are very far from the labour market. To believe that all people who have come to Sweden in recent years should be able to get a complete upper secondary education or higher within a reasonable time is a little too optimistic. There are people who rather need to get simple jobs so that they can get their own livelihood and income even if they have not completed upper secondary education. It is therefore important that there are both simple jobs and training for skilled jobs. It is good that the Minister is not satisfied. That's the best news of the day. Then we can hope that there will be more concrete measures and not just all the failed measures that I listed. However, when we say that structural reforms are the strongest card in the government, we are probably out of the question, because we have not seen a single structural reform in the labour market throughout the term of office. I was asked a question by the Minister, and I will try to answer it. All alliance parties have had a little different suggestions and names for the form of employment combining work and learning the job at work. But now we have agreed on a common solution, which I see as a strength, and we call it entry jobs. That is what I described before, and that is what applies today as a joint message from the Alliance.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-346	Madam President, I would like When you listen to the Moderates, it seems that structural reform actually means tax reduction, because only if you implement a tax reduction does the Moderates believe that they have implemented structural reform. But it's not the same at all. Structural reform is obviously something else on all the worlds of men other than on the Moderates. It is the introduction and implementation of major structural changes, which in this case are necessary on the grounds that we have a high acceptance of new arrivals, for poor integration and too long into work. The government has so far implemented five such major structural reforms, and we are prepared to carry out more if necessary. Madam President, I would like Quite often, moderates in the debate, like now Jan Ericson, present it as that the government wants everyone to have a complete upper secondary education. No, you can't always have that high goals. However, among those with a poor educational background with less than nine years of primary education and sometimes no schooling at all, and many of them are under 30 years of age, 2% today goes on to some form of education. Two percent! To believe at this point that we have invested enough in education for newcomers is naïve, to say the least. That is why the government imposes education obligations. We do not believe that everyone should attend an education, but we believe that significantly more of the short-skilled should have further training to equip themselves for the Swedish labour market. How long the education needs to be to lead to work can vary, but it is certainly not always a complete upper secondary school degree.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-349	Madam President, I would like John Widegren has asked me three questions about Chronic Wasting Disease, CWD, in cervids, or demagogue disease as it is also called. He has asked me how I intend to deal with the problem, whether I believe there is a risk that we have acted too late and whether CWD has spread widely among our cervids, if I believe that the measures taken are sufficient. Initially, I would like to say that I am following developments with interest and some concern. It is important that we gain more knowledge about the disease and that the measures taken are effective and cost-effective. These are issues that the relevant authorities have been working on for some time. When CWD was detected in Norway in 2016, this was the first time it was found in Europe. But we do not know how long the infection has existed in Norway or whether it is also present in other European countries. The incubation period is long, which means that the infection may have existed for several years before the first animal fell ill. The issue has been discussed at EU level, and a monitoring programme has been drawn up on the basis of proposals from the European Food Authority (Efsa). The aim of the programme is to investigate the extent to which the infection is present in the EU countries that have moose and/ or reindeer. Decisions have also been taken by the European Commission prohibiting the movement of cervids from Norway and parts of Sweden and Finland to other parts of the EU. The responsibility for monitoring and combating infectious animal diseases in Sweden lies with the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the Swedish National Veterinary Institute. I have full confidence that the authorities are handling CWD properly. From the information I have received, I cannot see that we could have acted more quickly. The authorities have been working on this issue since the first case in Norway in 2016. Sampling of self-dead and traffic-injured animals was already started a year ago, and systematic monitoring according to the EU plan will begin shortly. I have no reason to question the measures taken so far.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-354	Madam President, I would like I would first like to thank the Government for its answer. I am a little worried when I read the answer about taking this issue with some concern. I believe that the level of this is much higher than to take this issue with some concern. On the issue of having full confidence in the relevant authorities, I am also a little perplexed. I know that SVA started this pretty fast and developed a plan for how to handle it. Then it was handed over to the Board of Agriculture, and there it has stopped. Nothing more has really happened after that. The sampling has been carried out on animals submitted on a voluntary basis. Across the Norrland border, 25 animals have been sampled. It's very little. CWD is something that should be countered in the gate. It can get incredibly serious. The disease is 100% fatal. There is no vaccine or anything else to handle it. In North America there are some good examples. CWD has been there for 40 years. There you simply close borders, and you do not let animals cross borders. You've got a lot of shootings, and you're facing the disease that way. If you get the infection and get dead animals in nature, the prions remain for a very long time – perhaps up to ten years. The prions can enter the plants, and new animals can eat of the plants if they have not already met the prions in the wild. They can get them in through mucous membranes and other things. I see two major threats in this context. Firstly, we are talking about reindeer farmers, hunters who do not dare to shoot animals because they can carry disease, about forestry that may be affected if hunters suddenly do not dare to shoot the wild animals anymore and about traffic problems in the event of an increase in game strains. Secondly, I am thinking of moose and moose biology. The elk is perhaps one of our biggest Swedish symbols, and it is becoming more and more threatened. It is not just about the CWD that we are debating today. There are elk lice, reproductive problems and predatory problems. The elk is starting to take quite a beating around the country. I find that very worrying. So, after everything I have said now, I would like to ask the Government again: are the measures that have been taken really sufficient?
i-954785c5aa3d5266-363	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank my colleague John Widegren for this well-written interpellation. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply. This is a complex issue which I too take very seriously and look at with great concern for the future. This is an issue which, so far, may not be political on the basis that we have different opinions about it, but we have chosen to raise this issue on the basis of the concerns that exist for the future and what will happen to the Swedish wildlife administration and the Swedish fauna in the long term. I am concerned about the consequences that this may have in the long term. I'm a little worried about the Minister's answer. I take it that the Minister's concerns indicate a little bit that there is no preparation for this. I have a great understanding of this from the point of view that the disease is new in this part of the world and so far it has not been found in Sweden. I would like to add a small rural perspective to this, especially for reindeer husbandry and the Sami culture that we have in Sweden. This is a greater phenomenon than just animals. It affects a whole industry, it affects the countryside, it is about animal husbandry and culture. There are also socio-economic values in this which I think are important to have with us. It is basically about how we use our resources, how we take advantage of our nature and how we manage the cultural heritage we have in Sweden. Therefore, a disease that spreads at the speed that it can do is serious. A plan is required, and that plan needs to be implemented here and now. But it also requires a long-term perspective and preparation based on the consequences of a major outbreak of CWD. Then it is important that we actually see the problem and find ways of solving it. But I can't quite see we're there today. I know which authorities are involved, but I do not know exactly which authorities have the main responsibility for the issue and how these authorities should deal with it. If you read on our authorities' websites, it seems that you have a consensus that there is a need for more monitoring. However, there is one problem, namely that there is no financial resources to do this.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-369	Madam President, I would like Clearly, it is very important that we learn more about this disease. This is the first time it has been found in Europe. It has been in the United States for a long time. We must, of course, take measures to prevent the spread of infection. I think that we as politicians must have confidence in the way science and expertise deal with these kinds of issues. Åsa Coenraads was a little bit on the idea that there is no reason to make politics out of this. It is very important that the authorities with expertise have to work with the issue in a serious way, which they also do. Member John Widegren mentioned the fear of shooting these animals. However, it is very important that we also talk about the fact that this disease does not infect humans, but it is contagious between animals. It's different from the mad cow disease that behaved differently. CWD does not infect humans. Of course, these deer – elk, reindeer, deer – do not know any borders but can walk across borders. It is therefore important that we pay attention to this. This is also why the authority started with the sampling of fallen stock and injured animals already a year ago to see if the disease has come over on the Swedish side. That is not the case today. On the Norwegian side, it has been found that the infection is found in an isolated herd of wild reindeer at Nordfjella. Then there are a number of moose – I think there are three – and a stag on Norwegian side who are also infected. Only a few days ago something interesting emerged, namely that these elks and this deer have a different type of prion. It is suggested that it is not contagious. It is also very interesting if that is the case. If this research and this study were to show that this is not the case, then this is the isolated flock. But we should not draw too far-reaching conclusions from this, but let our science, our expertise and our authorities work on this issue seriously. They have an ambition to ensure that this does not spread, and they handle this wisely and well.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-376	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I couldn't agree more. It is clear that we should not make politics out of this, but we should recognise the seriousness and raise the issue. I feel like we haven't realized the seriousness of the matter. I hear it from many quarters – from hunters' associations, some scientists and others. They feel that Sweden is doing nothing about this. It's a pretty unhappy feeling. This does not infect people, we say. No, we don't think it does. I have read about a trial that has succeeded – or failed – in causing a monkey to react to these prions. So there may be tendencies that it is dangerous for people, but we absolutely should not draw such conclusions. I saw what came out yesterday. You can see that there are different types of CWD in reindeer, moose and deer. I've also seen that it can mutate. Thus, the infection can still move between the species. I'm hooking up with Åsa. We shall take this seriously and take it forward. But I wonder: do the authorities concerned have the economy to solve this? Will they be able to handle this? In the short term it may not be so expensive, but in the long term it can be very expensive if we do not realize the seriousness in good time. That is why I ask the Government: are the economic muscles of the relevant authorities?
i-954785c5aa3d5266-380	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We talk a lot about preventing further spread of infection in Sweden. Nä r I say further I mean: Today no infection has been found, but most likely the infection is also present in Sweden because the infection found on the Norwegian side is so close to the Swedish border. The wild reindeer that are infected know no barriers. That's why they move across national borders. It is today an isolated group of wild reindeer, as the Minister says. But there is a risk of the infection spreading. I have been able to read that this disease is spreading slowly at first, but then there is an avalanche spread. I see the risk that this is now spreading in Sweden. We also know that the incubation period for the animals is quite long. It will therefore take a long time before we discover the infection in Sweden. It will then spread to all deer types throughout Sweden. That is why we need to address the issue now, before the infection breaks out on a larger scale. We need a better plan than we have today. We have great confidence in science. We have great confidence in the expertise. But as I understand it, they already know what to do. The problem is that there is no money in the budget to enable them to do so. Then we have to try to find the money somewhere. That is why my question to the Minister is: what is the plan for drawing up the money and giving the mission to a group that is going to do something about it? It could be an authority. This could also be included in the general assignment to the Swedish Hunter Association. Ultimately, this is an important nutritional issue. What happens in the longer term if the reindeer industry cannot get yields from its animals and its meat?
i-954785c5aa3d5266-384	Madam President, I would like I said in a previous post that I think it is important that we let science and expertise deal with this. I think you should be a little careful as a politician. Åsa Coenraads says: The infection is probably on the Swedish side. Now let science and expertise handle this! We should not shift this just to try to make party politics out of it. Money is available for this. The Board of Agriculture has in its budget money to fight this type of infection. You don't want any more money. So there are financial resources to deal with it. John Widegren talks about nothing being done. I think we need to show respect for our authorities who are doing a lot of things on this issue. It started to work actively on this issue immediately when the infection was discovered on the Norwegian side. A ban on the movement of live cervids from Norway, northern Sweden and parts of Finland has been introduced. They can't be moved out. They work actively with both hunter organisations and other groups to get effective monitoring and good preparedness. You're training, too. In the reindeer industry, in particular, training is being undertaken in order to take these samples and carry out analyses. It also intends to train on the hunting side. So a lot of things are being done. This is done systematically, and it is managed by science and expertise. I have full confidence in our expertise and our science and that this is handled in a wise, good and relevant way.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-388	Madam President, I would like I'm glad the Government says he has full confidence. He has good hopes that we are on the track and that this will work out. I think I'm a little more hesitant. Of course, we will have to follow what is happening on this issue for some time. I hope that the muscles needed to deal with this problem are there, because this can have enormous consequences. There are some places where 50% of the populations die from this – it concerns the wild tribes. And the wild tribes are important to Sweden. I would like to end the debate by sending the Government that we now need to make greater efforts on this issue. I'm a little afraid we're second on the ball. I think about the moose and the other deer, but also about the users, the forest and traffic. This can have major consequences. We need to move forward on this issue.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-390	Madam President, I would like On the Norwegian side, it has been found that the infection is present in an isolated herd of wild reindeer – there are about 2,500 wild reindeer in Nordfjella. The Norwegian authorities have decided to completely decompose it and to keep the area completely closed to cervids for a number of years. Expertise and science say it's probably a way to deal with the specific case. I have faith in our science and in our experts making the right judgement. Then there are moose and cervids that have been found not to have the infectious part of this. They're in other places. It gives a hope that this will not have spread to Sweden. It can of course be in Sweden. But I know that our authorities are working on the issue and are prepared if it should turn out that this is coming to Sweden. I have full confidence that they work in a very serious way at both the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the State Veterinary Institute on this issue.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-392	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked me whether I will ensure that all causes arising from substandard evidence are taken into account first and foremost to ensure that specifications are not lacking. The question, as I understand it, is caused by the fact that the government appointed a special investigator in June, who is responsible, among other things, for considering what measures can be taken to reduce the number of appeals. One of the measures to be analysed by the investigator under the Directives is the possibility of introducing application fees in review cases. A proposal to introduce a fee for appeals in a procurement process, as mentioned by Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, is therefore not yet in place. I do not want to precede the work and proposals of the investigation, although I would like to emphasise that legal certainty is one of the cornerstones of the government's work in developing public procurement. However, there is an urgent need to reduce the negative consequences of the fact that so many contracts are being overtested, especially as the number has increased recently. Suppliers are also affected by the numerous and long-term review procedures in the area of procurement, which lead to uncertainty and delays. Here it may be added that all our Nordic neighbours and most of the other EU Member States have introduced rules on fees for applying for review. The investigator shall also, according to the Government's directives, analyse in particular the impact of the proposals on small businesses. To help, the investigator has a large number of experts, many of whom are from business organisations. I am convinced that they will contribute constructively to highlighting the pros and cons of different solutions and that the conditions of small businesses will be taken into account in the work.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-396	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The reason for this interpellation is – correctly understood – the investigation that is due to be completed in June 2018. It is also about the written question put by my party colleague Hans Rothenberg, who said: how does the introduction of a fee and reduced possibilities for appeal affect the legal certainty of smaller individual operators and the possibilities for them to be involved in a procurement process on equal terms? The Government is, of course, referring, as we belong, to the ongoing investigation. At the same time, the Government says that all our Nordic neighbours and most other EU Member States have introduced rules on fees for applying for redress. In the Nordic countries, we are therefore the only country that does not charge a fee. There's a certain signal value in it, even if it's an ongoing investigation. It feels, if you think out loud, like we're heading that way, and that's why I've put this interpellation in order to be able to discuss other parts of it as well. There is a truth that lives out there that it is not possible to ask questions during an ongoing procurement process. This applies both to those who are to participate and who feel that they are not allowed to ask questions because then they are excluded, and to those who are to carry out the procedure, i.e. the purchasers, who feel that they cannot give answers. This is a problem that needs to be addressed, I mean. It is a very important part of the preventive work, before you get as far as perhaps to charge a fee for appeals. Many parts that can be problematic may not be. If you have won a contract and it comes to award, it is the case that if there is an appeal in progress then the person making the purchase does not have to give the supplier the assignment that has it all at the moment. It is also part of the preventive approach that one can choose another supplier and thus ensure that citizens do not get in trouble during the time when there is a review. Having said that, there is a great difference between the companies that are unwieldy and those that are doing so for a reason that is entirely justified. The Government also mentions that the Procurement Authority should be a supporting activity, and that is a good and important work. It is also important that it becomes accurate information. If I am properly informed and have understood it correctly, the Authority now needs to revise its work, because incorrect information has been given along the way. If it is the case that you are not really in step with the work you are going to do, then this can also be a contributing reason why there may be further review.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-402	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It will be exciting to debate this. Public procurement is an opportunity for many companies to enter new, exciting markets and have an opportunity to demonstrate their know-how in an environment dominated by public decisions. It also offers an opportunity to develop. For smaller companies, this is an opportunity to participate on the same terms as county councils, regions, municipalities and even large companies. All actors shall have the opportunity to participate in public procurement. It should be legally secure and effective. I'm using an old classic quote, everyone's coming. Everyone should be able to participate. A while ago, the investigation that is under way announced its report, and I note that the Minister commented on the radio that he could envisage a fee to slow down the number of appeals and that the current regulatory framework is too generous. I asked a written question about this, and Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson referred to it. I think that now that we have the opportunity to debate this, we can go a little deeper, and I would therefore like to ask the question: does the Minister think it is a good way to use the money instrument to limit the possibility of participating in public procurement? There are other things that would have to be done in the area of public procurement, and it is rather to change complicated rules and create better conditions for SMEs to be able to participate instead of making it more difficult. I understand that the Minister does not want to decide here and now whether to introduce a fee. However, I find it remarkable that the Minister commented on this and was reasonably in favour of being able to envisage introducing a fee. It is a defensive way of dealing with public procurement and a defensive way of looking at the problems that exist. There may be many reasons to appeal. In his reply, the Minister notes precisely that Sweden is at the top of the list of appeals. Then maybe there are other things you should look at. Perhaps you should look at the terms of procurement and those who procure. Are there too many complicated procurement directives? Is it simply procurement that becomes very difficult to participate in? Is this the reason why many contracts are being appealed? I would like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to review the possibility of making it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in public procurement. Is the Minister also prepared to give priority to this rather than resorting to the toll weapon in this context?
i-954785c5aa3d5266-411	Madam President, I would like Thanks to Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson and Hans Rothenberg for the important issue of public procurement and the possibility for SMEs to participate in these procurements. The fact is that, for the government, one of the most important perspectives in our work on public procurement has been to make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises. This is done in different ways, including by simplifying the regulatory framework for public procurement. There is work going on in the area of welfare procurement, but we have also worked on the new Public Procurement Act that has entered into force. There are some simplifications there, although there is still some work to be done. In particular, it concerns the application of procurement law. For example, we have worked to ensure that contracting authorities receive support in splitting procurement into smaller parts, smaller contracts, so that the market for small and medium-sized enterprises is opened up. Where municipalities, county councils and authorities work with divided contracts, we see very positive results for small and medium-sized enterprises. As a result, we are making operations more efficient, as there will be better competition. Local operators may participate in procurements and may be awarded contracts. We have also worked with projects dealing with early dialogue in order to provide an opportunity for employers to point out shortcomings in the tender documents, which Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson also touches on in her speech. It is a question of ensuring that there is a transparent dialogue between tenderers and contracting authorities so that the specifications are good, that irrelevant requirements are excluded or that small and medium-sized operators are excluded. We also have legislation here which sets limits on capacity requirements, which excludes small operators. It is important to ensure that these dialogues enable small and medium-sized enterprises to point out faulty capacity requirements. Much is being done with regard to public procurement which is not subject to review. On the other hand, there is a need to work with the question of the appeals. A very large number of appeals are being brought in comparison with other countries. Sweden has a relatively unique model with free review procedures and a system where it is not liable to bear the costs of the other party's proceedings. It is a very generous financial system for the review of public procurement, and it is a system that does not exist in so many other comparable countries. This, in turn, affects the number of appeals. Companies involved in public procurement are not very fond of too many appeals. It creates problems in nte only for the public sector. It also creates problems for serious suppliers participating in procurements. It is important to have the right balance point. There must be possibilities for redress. SMEs must be able to seek review of procurement where there are shortcomings. But of course it should be a system that is efficient and meets the needs that public purchases should meet. That is why the issue needs to be investigated. We have a very skilled and knowledgeable investigator, an internationally recognized expert in this field. To help him, the investigator has several other experts representing, among other things, the organisations organising small and medium-sized enterprises. It is important that their views and experiences are included in the investigation work, which must be carried out seriously. Of course, we must consider all aspects of the issue before we put our foot down and decide on a line.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-419	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It was two hours ago, so let's try to remember where we left off. The last thing that was said was well that the Government addressed the various pieces that have been the subject of discussion on how to improve procurement – splitting procurement into smaller parts and early dialogue. It's good to do it. At the same time, it does nothing to prevent appeals per se. Large companies have the muscles to have people set aside to manage these pieces in departments, while small single-member companies do not have the same. That is why we have reason to debate with the Government – we are thinking about what it will be like if there should be a fee to appeal. If I understand it correctly, the Government followed the debate on the Employment Service earlier today, where we discussed the background to the fact that matters will be the way they are, given the fact that we are sitting with agreements that we have not been able to implement. In the case of Arbetsförmedlingen, this is because one as an authority has missed one's procurements, which is a concern. In this case, the tender came late – seven months were mentioned here. If there are short deadlines, this means that even the time until it is clear will be shorter, which means that courts where it takes time to appeal will be put even more to the test. Then it's going to take a while. In that debate, I mentioned that the important thing when making a purchase is to make an agreement. What is missing in many parts in Sweden today is that from day one you follow up what you have bought and what you get for the money, that you do the market analysis and follow their own agreements to see where they go and that you get good exchange to be done in good time. If you work in the way that is intended, you will have plenty of time to take up any appeal that comes about – although we think that there is more appeal in Sweden and that it is a concern, which I agree with. I also asked a question about the role of the courts. How effective are the courts, and what can be done at that end? All these points about smaller parts, previous dialogue and knowledge that we have been dealing with about what can be done in a procurement are, of course, preventive in order not to end up at that end. I mentioned in my last speech, before handing over to Mr Rothenberg, that the role of the Authority has become a concern. I don't know how big it is. The government looked at me a little bit inquiring at the time. In any case, there is a case that I know of where a municipality has made a procurement where a local company would participate. The company has had agreements and salaries according to collective agreements in a way that we have debated many times. If I understand it correctly, the authority missed that there were no central agreements and made a calculation that did not correspond to the local one, which made it suddenly not good. This allows the authority to go back and look at what advice it is. It is of course very important that this should not be increased so that you end up in an appeal debate. On all these points, I would like the Council of State to tell us a little in the next speech.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-427	Madam President, I would like When we talk about procurement, I think it is important that we focus on the right direction. A lot of focus is on purchasers, but we should have more focus on those most affected: the companies and suppliers that should be able to participate in procurements. Often it is small and medium-sized enterprises that drown in the procurement jungle in directives and complicated regulations that exclude them from these contexts. Therefore, it often becomes the big companies that are involved and settle up in the end. If we are to have a growing, dynamic industry, SMEs must also be able to participate. When there is a queue in the procurements and when there is dissatisfaction there remains the opportunity to appeal. I come back to what is my cane horse, namely what the Minister said in a statement: that he opens the door to impose a fee on it to appeal. It is not to remedy the problems. It is possible to add conditioner to the symptoms. However, if you have many appeals – as is currently the most in Europe – you have to go to the root and cause of so many appeals. It is in this context that fees can possibly help by removing the possibility of appeal. But they do not remove the reason for appeal. We need to focus on those companies that are involved in this and should have a reasonable chance. If it is to support these companies, it is not a fee that is the solution.
i-KwQifibv1aFmnECRozw6sd	Madam President, I would like Thanks again, Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson and Hans Rothenberg! Engagement in procurement issues that exist in the Swedish parliament is even more needed, because it concerns one fifth of Sweden's economy. It concerns important activities in the public sector. It concerns opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises to contribute to the development of public activities. Madam President, I would like My picture – and I have been working on these issues for many years and have been in contact with both suppliers and public sector representatives – is that appeals in public procurement are problematic. This is because we have a very large number of appeals in public procurement compared to other countries. We also have a system that does not require the tenderer to point out the errors early in the process. Even if errors in public procurement are detected early on, it is possible to wait until later in the process of pointing out errors and then take the process to court. There is, of course, another regulatory framework that places higher demands on contracting authorities but also on tenderers to act as early as possible in order to streamline the process of review of public procurement. We need to evaluate all possible methods to make public procurement better and more efficient. That is why we have commissioned the investigation mentioned earlier to look at experiences from other countries and opportunities to create a system that strikes the right balance between efficiency and legal certainty. We have also commissioned the Swedish Procurement Authority to produce a basis for the investigation. What about appeals in public procurement in our country? It is important that we start from the facts. There is a debate on the review of public procurement in many places, but we need to compile the reviews and see where they arise and what the differences are between the different sectors of the public market. On this basis, the investigation can produce the right proposals. Our starting point is that the legislative changes to be implemented should be legislative changes that do not adversely treat small and medium-sized enterprises. This has been an important starting point, and it is also clear from the directive for the investigation. It's not an easy area. The order in force in England and Wales, for example, which we have been looking at, is a system in which it is responsible for the cost of proceedings for the other party. Then, of course, it becomes an inhibitory effect. There are considerably fewer appeals in public procurement, but it is clear that this closes the door for many actors to seek redress. There is no doubt that our model may be the most generous in Europe, which also has its drawbacks. This is why our municipalities and county councils often struggle with review procedures in public procurement. That is also why we have a large number of cases in courts, which of course affects the duration of proceedings. There have been proposals in this debate to give priority to procurement cases in the administrative courts, but this means that other types of cases are being prioritised. These can be target types that are also important and where there are strong reasons why we should not have too long processing times. These are important issues, but we must have a proper investigation first. I look forward to continuing this debate and dialogue with Parliament.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-441	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think it's great that they have been commissioned by the Swedish Competition Authority and the authorities to produce an inventory of what the review is based on. I look forward to seeing this in December, when I hope it will come. When it comes to waiting to tell, there are many parts to this. The question is, just as Hans Rothenberg was on the subject: why wait to tell? There is something strange about the public and the purchases that do not exist in the private sector, that is, that you have two counterparties instead of one party. There are two points: knowledge and education in the country. I would like to see the Council of State take up how it sees this in its last speech. It feels like somewhere along the way there are two points where you really have to move forward so that you do what you're supposed to do. I live in a municipality where some procurements have been made. In one of the latest ones you missed to do a drainage at a place where you would have a skateboard course, which makes everything that you order afterwards become expensive and wrong. I feel that things are needed along the way that make it right. The question is why you wait for this. Oligopol is a risk. I want to see companies, both small and large, grow. They need a home market, and that's what I'm worried about. I want more people to grow in business and be able to take place and seal yes locally in the municipality – good stuff and preferably innovative so that you do not build what it should be but open up in the issues so that you get good business. I really hope it doesn't get stuck in fees. I also hope that in the investigation they will listen to our debate.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-448	Madam President, I would like The training efforts AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson mentions are absolutely central to increasing the quality of public procurement. There are many different types of initiatives, including the Swedish Procurement Authority, the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, which arranges different types of educational initiatives, and the organisation Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, which has had a tour where, among other things, they meet purchasers and representatives of the municipal sector. We work actively towards the state actors. Just two three weeks ago, we gathered the government purchasing managers to review the procurement strategy, where these issues are included. There is a clear focus on dialogue with tenderers to prevent appeals in public procurement. There is therefore a proper programme to deal with the strategic aspect of the public transaction, but there is no doubt that the legal rules also affect the conditions. If you have a very generous framework for appeals, you get more appeals, but if you have a restrictive framework you get fewer. However, this is not a reason why we should make it too difficult for operators to have a judicial review that guarantees legal certainty, but that there must be a balance. Most people who work with public affairs today, whether on the supplier side or in the public sector, agree that the regulatory framework has its shortcomings and that it is problematic for the public business that we have so many appeals, which delay processes and interfere with both suppliers and contracting entities and authorities. We will simply have to come back to this issue, both when we get the evidence from the authorities on the mapping of what it looks like today, and when the investigation presents its proposal. I look forward to continuing a dialogue on this.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-454	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Malm and now also Robert Hannah have asked me what the government has done to shorten the long processing times in the asylum process and whether I believe that these measures are sufficient or whether more will be done. As is known, the number of asylum seekers in Sweden in 2015 was very high, leading to an unsustainable situation with great strain on Swedish society. The Swedish legal framework was therefore temporarily adapted to the minimum level of EU law and international conventions in order to reduce the number of asylum seekers to Sweden. The measures, together with political changes in other countries and within the EU, have significantly reduced the number of asylum seekers in Sweden in 2016 and so far in 2017 compared to 2015. However, the large number of applications in 2015 still characterises the activities of the Finnish Immigration Service and other social functions. The government agrees that it is important for the individual to have a quick decision on his or her asylum application, and we are aware that the temporary law and the secondary law mean more applications of certain types. The Government has taken a number of measures that have, among other things, made it possible for the Migration Agency to implement necessary and strong staff reinforcements in a short time. Between 2014 and 2016, the number of annual asylum processing workers has almost doubled from a 1 100 to c a 2 000. This has enabled the Office to settle nearly 112 000 asylum cases in 2016, which is the highest number ever. The migration courts have also received additional resources to be able to decide much more asylum cases than in the past. When the Finnish Immigration Service and the courts have decided on the applications from 2015 and 2016, the average processing times will decrease significantly. As a result of the agreement on efforts in response to the refugee crisis, including the Liberals, the Government commissioned the Finnish Immigration Service to shorten the processing times for asylum applications both in the short as well as in the long term in 2016. Furthermore, in the autumn of 2016, the Government submitted a mission to the Migration Court of Appeal, the Migration Courts, the Swedish National Courts and the Migration Agency to increase the conditions for individuals to get a quick decision. Also in the Swedish Immigration Service's regulation letter for 2017, the Government submitted several assignments in order to streamline the asylum process and shorten the processing times. The Government considers it important that the Migration Agency's work to create more efficient working methods continues to develop and intensify. This applies in particular to the development of support for activities through the development of uniform processes for management and through increased digitisation.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-460	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked me the following questions: The many questions put by Sten Bergheden are linked in the sense that they all relate to measures against a coherent problem that risks leading to less educated drivers and have a negative impact on road safety and the government's work on zero vision. As far as my work and that of the government is concerned, it is conducted in both the short term and the longer term with the authorities, in dialogue with industry and civil society. I would like to start by stressing once again that it is an important issue for me that the lines for driving licences are kept at reasonable levels. The information I have received is that the Swedish Transport Administration works purposefully to ensure this. A driving licence is in many cases an important key to entering the labour market. In order to improve access to the labour market and stimulate a higher throughput in upper secondary school, the government intends to introduce an opportunity for some unemployed persons aged 18 to 47 to take out a loan for driving licence training. In a second step, the target group is extended to young people aged 19 to 20 who have completed upper secondary school education. In a previous answer to a written question asked by Sten Bergheden, I have explained the measures taken by the Swedish Transport Administration to meet the increased demand in the summer, such as the employment of extra staff and the offer to examiners to move their holidays and work during the summer. Prior to the summer of 2017, 34 new examiners were hired. In order to further increase capacity for the summer of 2018, the Swedish Transport Administration has also hired 47 new examiners, who have just started their education. Another course is planned for autumn 2018 to meet demand in the coming years. In addition, the measures continue with overtime to offer additional evenings and weekends, redeployment of resources in the country and additional staff. The Finnish Transport Agency continues to have high pressure on test times throughout the country and currently finds it difficult to live up to the service promise in certain main cities. According to Trafikverket, the main reason for this is that many customers do not come sufficiently trained for the tests, resulting in decreasing approval rates and increased need for re-tests. In addition, the number of people who want to take a driving licence has gradually increased in recent years. Compared to previous years, Trafikverket cannot see that the pressure on test times fades after the summer. The proportion of approved driving tests has shown a negative trend in recent times, which is worrying from the point of view of road safety. It is important to find out why more and more drivers are poorly prepared and taking regular chances on the driver's tests. The Swedish Transport Agency, in collaboration with Umeå University, has studied the driving test activities in detail based on the trend over time with increasingly poor test results – this in order to answer the question whether there are groups of driving licence holders who have been left out in today's driver training system or who for other reasons cannot benefit from a good driver training course. The results of this study are expected at the turn of the year. In order to further work on ensuring good driver training, the digital training protocol project is under way. Digital education protocols are aimed at both private supervisors and traffic school teachers and strengthen the role and responsibility of supervisors. The system ensures that the student has acquired all the important knowledge needed before taking his/her proficiency test and driving test. The Swedish Transport Agency has also agreed with the Swedish Road and Transport Research Institute to conduct an evaluation of the previous government's reform, which introduced a limitation on the number of possible pupils per supervisor. There are clear indications that this measure has not led to a reduction in undeclared activities but rather made the already illegal activities more difficult to detect. This also includes proposing alternative measures to curb illegal activities. Report and conclusions from that work will be presented in spring 2018. The Swedish Transport Agency and the Finnish Transport Agency have initiated a broad review of the entire driver training system. This work has recently begun but will be carried out in collaboration with the industry and with other relevant authorities. I and the government support and encourage the initiative of the authorities to take a holistic approach to the challenges facing driver training, and we also support efforts to tackle illegal driving school activities. As part of this, I have invited the Swedish Transport Administration and the Swedish Transport Agency for a continued discussion on the challenges that exist in this area.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-474	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, although I believe that this was more an attempt at some kind of defence speech than an answer and an explanation of what to do about the problem. This is not a new problem, but it has become worse and worse in recent years. The government's ambitions are, I believe, a little too low in this situation, given the great problem that still prevails throughout the country. The government's policy is simply not enough. Today, the long wait is ider; it may take up to four to six months for a person to take a driving licence to have a driving time. This is completely unreasonable. Madam President, I would like First of all, I must also ask the Minister and the Government: does the government really want more people to take their driving licences in the country? If the answer is yes, which I hope, why do not we do more to resolve this situation? We have both young people and newcomers in Sweden who need to take a driving licence, and it is clear that this development needs to be stimulated so that it can be faster. Madam President, I would like I recently visited a traffic school in Skaraborg, where these long waiting times are starting to dissipate. There you are dependent on cars and driving licences. There are missing both metro and tram and in most places even bus. If you are to be able to work and live in Skaraborg and in many other parts of the country you need a driving licence and a car. A driving school student who has been in traffic school for maybe five six months and has completed 10 to 20 lessons, spent his money and is waiting for a driving time is told that you will not get a driving time but instead a queue and a long wait in Trafikverket's driving queue. This is not acceptable. It pulls away, and the students are forced into more driving school hours to continue to keep their knowledge alive until there is a driving time. In Skaraborg, I also learned that a driving examiner had run up with 27 people for three days, of which only two were approved. That is also exactly what the Minister lists in his reply: all the problems. We see black driving schools, and we see that the driving is stopped. But I miss the answers.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-482	The only sharp thing the Minister really has in his answer is to have a discussion and an investigation together with the Swedish Transport Agency and the Swedish Transport Administration. But is that really enough? Is it not a complete review of driving licence rules and other things around this that we need to make the whole system work in the long term? I call for a broader approach than just a discussion with the Swedish Transport Agency and the Swedish Transport Administration. My questions will be: Do the government and the minister want more people to take their driver's license? Is it enough to find more examiners, as has been done in the past without solving the problem? It's an old trick. Overtime has also been driven, but it does not help – we know that from previous experience. You have to start looking at this. Is the Minister not prepared to carry out a major review of the entire regulatory framework for driving licences in Sweden? Does the Minister share the view that it needs to be done?
i-954785c5aa3d5266-484	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sten Bergheden, for your commitment. I can say that I share it: I do not think it is acceptable for the long waiting periods we have today. On the other hand, I think that in my reply I also show what initiatives are being taken, by the responsible authorities, but also, of course, by the industry. I think we need to work on this issue in the short and long term, and that is what I am trying to explain. In the short term, it is absolutely necessary to hire new and additional examiners and make the efforts that not least Trafikverket now makes to meet the increase we see. But also note the observation that this is no longer something we are looking at just over a season – it is a continuous sharp increase in the future. This is, of course, linked to the fact that Sweden is growing but also, I believe, with an increased need and interest for driving licences. The basic question that Sten Bergheden asked me was: Do we want more people to take a driving licence? Yes, we certainly do! For a car-loving Minister for Infrastructure from Småland with a background in the automotive industry, that is an obvious answer. I think it's important. I know just like Sten Bergheden, with a background in Skaraborg, that at home in Småland public transport will not always be the answer. You have to have a car and you have to have a driver's license to study, to be able to get to relatives and friends or to get to a growing labour market. This means that we need to think both short- and long-term. In the short term, I believe that the initiatives now being taken are important. It is a matter of both reinvigorating more people and ensuring that proper efforts are made to curb illegal activities, because this is an unacceptable phenomenon which is now systematically destroying conditions in parts of the country. More efforts must be made there, and there are investigations and work in progress. Nor do I believe that the initiative now being taken by the Finnish Transport Administration and the Swedish Transport Agency should be underestimated. They are starting a major project that wants to make a complete review of the driver training system and where the first milestone is autumn 2018. This should be done in collaboration not only with STR but also with Motormännen, MHF, NTF and all other organisations to see what challenges we have to face. I will honestly say that in the long term I think both Sten Bergheden and I are thinking a lot about how to meet what today's Gothenburgers see on the streets: self-driving cars and connected vehicles in the Drive Me project. What will be the challenge for driver training in the future? I think we can never get away from a situation where we have to have well-trained drivers who can act if the technology fails. We must have well-trained drivers who understand today's complex traffic systems, even if we have good technical support systems. I therefore welcome the initiative taken by the Finnish Transport Administration and the Swedish Transport Agency. I myself, in dialogue with the STR, have discussed the need for a deeper review, because I think that will be necessary in the long term. Now, however, I would like the authorities to take this approach first in order to gather a proper overview of what efforts will have to be made. In the short term, of course, it is necessary to make new appointments. This is also the case: The change and effort made by the Alliance government was to limit the number of driving licences to 15. It did not turn out to be enough. It was really the effort of the alliance government. We do far more things than that government did. We are now also opening for CSN loans for driving licences just to understand what Sten Bergheden suggested: We want more people to be able to take driving licences. I think that the opportunity we now open with CSN loans will be welcome because it also has a clear relationship to that it should be about an established driving school and legal activities with trained tutors who supervise the student in learning.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-494	Madam President, I would like I thank you for your reply and for the fact that the Minister and the Government are in favour of more people taking driving licences. I fully share that vision. I think it is extremely important if we are to have a Sweden that works in all parts of the country. Nevertheless, I think that the Minister is sliding away from the problem by providing old solutions. We see that we need even more people to drive trucks, buses and cars in the future. We have many more people who need to upgrade their driving licenses. We need young people who can take their driving licences within a reasonable time, especially in rural areas. That is absolutely necessary. Yet I hear no more concrete and no real desire to really review this. We could agree here, the Minister and I, that we should look at this in a greater sense and take care of the parts that can be changed. How many times should you get to drive up, for example, before it becomes so that Trafikverket turns into some form of traffic school instead of a driving plant? Today, there are many who take the chance and try to drive up there instead of going to driving school and training so that they are able to take driving licences. We have five tests when it comes to becoming a truck driver. We have two theoretical tests and two run tests. It is a test with heavy truck and trailer, and then you will also prove that you can drive the heavy truck without trailer. We have an YKB training on top of this. It's five heavy educations. Of course, it could be possible to review this in order to facilitate and come down on time. Madam President, I would like The minister's taking up the CSN loan. I am in favour of that. However, it is very restrictive; only some unemployed people could get it. It's also a long delivery time, because it won't come until 2018, sometime in the fall if I remember correctly. Even in that part, where we now see that we need to take a new approach, the Minister and the government are not particularly capable of action – at least not in terms of time. The second part of this – that many chances – obviously also needs to be reviewed. How can we get to the illegal occupations of black traffic schools out there? Have you set aside resources for the Swedish Tax Agency or the police to get to them, or do you expect them to turn themselves in? I don't think they will. There are many issues that we need to highlight and address, and we need to do more than just patch and fix the system when we see that it does not work. It is about the cost of driving licences overall. We have high VAT on driving licences in Sweden, 25%, while other countries in Europe are on half the VAT. We haven't introduced CSN loans yet. We have an evaluation of the DUP that might need to be done. It has been pointed out by many that this is not working properly, and then perhaps we should look in depth to make this instrument work. Is the run-up optimal? And what about the write-up? Today, it is sometimes goaltenders who perform the write-up for several people at the same time. People have taken the sample in seven minutes, which is completely unreasonable to pass through the whole test unless it has been done a number of times before. People just work half-criminally to get a driver's license for someone else. There are many of these things that need to be reviewed. 7,000 truck drivers are missing in Sweden. The government should be interested in ensuring that we get more people to work. I miss the great, transparent task of the government to review the entire regulatory framework for driving licences in order to facilitate the process and overcome the problems that exist instead of just patching and fixing in a discussion with the Transport Agency and the Finnish Transport Agency.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-503	Madam President, I would like I thank Sten Bergheden, but I would still appreciate it if he listened to what I said. It's not just to listen, it's to start processes. If you have been in the Riksdag since 2006, as Sten Bergheden has done, and for eight years have been an active member when we have had a bourgeois government, it may also have been noted that during that time no major efforts were made. It was the 15 limit, and it has proved ineffective. On the contrary, the possibility of training more truck drivers or bus drivers was withdrawn as labour market training was reduced. The lack we have of people who have the right education to meet the major challenges we have in the labour market is the result of having a bourgeois government that prioritised tax cuts over investments in, for example, driver training. I also do not think that what I believe Sten Bergheden said in his speech is the right way to go: that we should lower the requirements during the training period. On the contrary – it is a fairly qualified job to transport a large and heavy truck with or without trailer. To then go in and lower the requirements of education, I think, would be a dangerous way of trying to achieve the goals we have within the zero vision. My ambition is rather that we should increase road safety and also raise the demands of those who drive not least heavy vehicles. When it comes to allocating resources to cope with this, it is under this government that we are now making large additions of resources to works and authorities, whether we are talking about the Tax Agency or the police, unlike during the time we had a bourgeois government, that gave priority to other things. Many of the proposals that Sten Bergheden mentions in his list are proposals that I am pragmatically willing to try. I am prepared to try many ways to make sure both to reduce waiting times and to have better opportunities for driver training. We need more people with a driver's license. We need to get to the illegal traffic school business that exists. But those who need to develop this for us and give both Sten Bergheden and the government good suggestions for efforts that can be made are the actors who also work professionally with this. That is why I think the initiative taken by the Finnish Transport Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency is important. It brings together the industry and stakeholders to make a proper overall take-up. If there are good proposals there – and I am convinced of that – I will follow the process very closely. I believe that it is absolutely necessary to see that we need to take further political initiatives to ensure that we have good driver training opportunities in the future. However, this applies both in the short term and in the long term. In the short term, we are increasing resources, as this means that you can hire more examiners. In the long term, I believe that both the actors and the responsible authorities will realise that in the future we have a challenge in the self-driving and connected vehicles we have, in the new drivelines and in the new requirements we have for the next generation of drivers and drivers. This will mean that we need to reshape parts of the education, but it will be done in harmony with the industry. It will also be done in harmony, not least, I think, with the automotive industry in the future. It has a great responsibility to see which driver support systems are being developed. I will therefore try this pragmatically. I do not think the government is passive; on the contrary, we are now doing a lot of things, unlike what it was like during the time of the alliance government. I also welcome Sten Bergheden to be constructively involved in the process of change. This should not be a partisan issue, but it should be an issue in which we as politicians see that we have a responsibility to ensure that we can give more people – not only those who have now come to Sweden but also young people who are growing up or others who need to change and broaden their professional skills – the opportunity to get a proper driver's education.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-511	Madam President, I would like This is not a partisan question. In fact, I am extending my hand to the Minister and saying that we are prepared to do a greater review of this in order to correct it even more in the long term. It is in this work that the Minister believes that the discussion he intends to have with the Transport Agency, the industry and the Finnish Transport Agency is enough, which I think is too thin in this context. However, while we are doing something about this, we need to do more so that we really solve these issues. There will come up questions such as that we might be able to put some of the responsibility at the driving schools in terms of the driving part – that, as they call it in the industry, be able to turn off 2s. For example, if you have failed to park on the driver's test, you will not get your driving licence until you have proven at a driving school that you are actually able to do that. This would make it easier if we did not have to send those people on a new driver's test. Just as we turn off 2s when it comes to the inspection of our cars, we could work on this. Then, however, the will must be to actually work out the ideas to the full. It is not enough just to sit in a discussion with the Transport Agency and the Finnish Transport Agency, but I think that the Minister should take the extended hand and make a bigger take and review the whole. Down in Skaraborg, in Lidköping, for example, our young people sit and wait until April before they get a driving time. It is a very long time when you are in the countryside and have no other way to travel than to have a driver's license and a car. This limits the possibility of work, mobility and much more. It is therefore urgent to take urgent action, but take more time when it comes to the other things! There I am prepared to extend my hand to accommodate the government in making a bigger take. I wish I had received a very positive answer to that question.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-515	Madam President, I would like I think that we mutually extend our hands to each other at regular intervals, and that is a good thing. I believe that this is an area in which we can find smart common solutions in the future. We need to ensure that more people have the opportunity to learn and have a good driver's training. It should also be borne in mind that about 70% of those who have been notified through a driving school pass the driving tests. Of those who register privately, this is about 35%. I have only good experience of driving schools myself, and they are doing an amazing job. Let's think about this, whether it's about how we evaluate the digital protocols or how we otherwise connect to ourselves and use the skills that exist better when developing the new driver training. I think that Sten Bergheden and I agree that there are more things to do. However, we do things in the short term and in the long term. In the short term, it is about training more people, providing more resources, getting more driver tests and getting access to the illegal activities that exist. In the long term, I also believe in a holistic approach, and at the moment Transport Agency and Trafikverket are taking the holistic approach by inviting a proper review with the actors. I believe that both Sten Bergheden and I will follow the work very closely and perhaps meet in the future in an interpellation debate. I hope that we will see a better result of this work then.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-519	Madam President, I would like Erik Ottoson has asked me If I make the assessment that it is desirable that the Finnish Transport Administration should, under coercive conditions, hand over the liability of road managers to municipalities and road associations without compensation for operating and maintenance costs If I or the Government have given any commission to Trafikverket to carry out the RÄV project If I intend to take any measures with regard to the Swedish Transport Administration's RÄV project. First of all, I would like to give a brief overview of some of the main features of road maintenance. Public roads are regulated by the Road Act. The state is a road manager for public roads unless the government – because it promotes good and rational road maintenance – decided that a municipality should be a road manager for public roads within the municipality. Today, more than 200 municipalities are road keepers for public roads. All roads that are not public are, in the sense of the road law, individual. Individual roads are managed by associations, by the partners jointly or by the property owner himself if the road is located within properties in the same owner's hand. Some 20 000 individual road managers receive annual state subsidies for their operating costs in order to keep their roads open to public transport. An individual road may be changed into a public road if the road is needed for public transport. In the other direction, a public road may be withdrawn from general maintenance and moved to individual road maintenance, but in this case the condition of protection is that the withdrawal may cause only minor inconvenience to the district. Changes in the liability of road managers will of course be investigated and examined, ultimately by the government, in each individual case. I can therefore answer without doubt no to Erik Ottoson's first question as to whether it is desirable to surrender in an obsessive manner. However, I would like to note that this is a matter of judicial review and not an economic one. No compensation will be paid, regardless of the direction in which responsibility changes. With regard to the second question, the answer is that no assignment has been given to the Finnish Transport Administration regarding road maintenance responsibilities. A common target for the division of responsibilities has long been discussed between Trafikverket, the National Association of Individual Roads and Sve riges Kommuner and Landsting. In the 2012 infrastructure bill, the government at the time expressed a positive view of the cooperation between the parties concerned and considered that it should continue. I do not intend to take any action on the Trafikverket project.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-529	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The origin of this interpellation is that from my own constituency in Stockholm County there is a warning that there are projects going on there that Trafikverket runs. The Finnish Transport Agency decides entirely that it no longer intends to take responsibility for certain routes, and that is not a negotiation but a message. The situation then arises that 50 people in transit along a four-and-a-half-kilometre stretch of road in the municipality of Salem suddenly receive a recommended letter stating that they will now be given responsibility for the route. There are government facilities along this road, and it has a great need for maintenance – at levels just over $250,000 a year. There are even public transport buses there on a regular basis. This is now to be the responsibility of these people because the Finnish Transport Administration – without anything having happened along the way, so to speak – decides on it, to everyone's great surprise. So there will be a roll-over of costs in the hundreds of thousands of crowns class on private individuals along this route, and along other road routes, without any kind of financial compensation. When, over a long period of time, one has had an ambition that it should be the right body to be responsible for the right path, it is clear that it is reasonable to also have a dialogue with those who will have to take care of the path in the next step. As the Government says, in each individual case it will even be examined by the Government, if I have understood correctly, and then I interpret it as saying that this route will also come up for review with the Government. This means that the Government has a very extensive responsibility in this particular case as well. Even if it is a judicial review and not an economic one, it is also crucial from a legal point of view that the process functions effectively, which is perceived as legitimate by the individual. In this case, it is something that must be described as obsessively overwhelming the responsibility of a road association that is not even yet established, since those who are to form the association are completely taken on the bed. I have a few supplementary questions for the Government on this particular issue. Will the route in question be handed over under coercion to the 50 residents along the route when the government examines the matter? Will this happen despite the fact that there are state interests along the road and despite the fact that there is public transport along the way? It must surely be considered that it must then in some way be a public service – otherwise public transport would not be used. Is it the Government's view that it is an appropriate way to conduct the business when a registered letter to residents only announces that the road will be transferred? It has happened without any dialogue or foundation – it has only announced this.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-537	Madam President, I would like On the basic question, I have explained in my answer what is going on. You can only make a transfer like this if it causes little inconvenience to the countryside. I have been very clear that I undoubtedly answer no to the question of whether it is desirable to surrender in an obsessive form – that is certainly not desirable. It is not that the government has given any commission to the Finnish Transport Administration. The RÄV project started in 2013, and as I understand it, it ended in 2016 and was then implemented. The second part of the question I think Erik Ottoson realises that I cannot answer. One cannot ask a question on hypothetical grounds and want to know how the government will take a position if a question is appealed. There were a great many hypothetical steps in this matter. If it were the case that there was a takeover decision, it could certainly be appealed by an authority that did not think that it would only cause little inconvenience to the district. In that case, it may eventually be tried, ultimately by the government, if I have understood correctly. This makes it extremely inappropriate for me to give an opinion on the outcome of this particular matter at all in this context. I believe, however, that it is an important signal to Erik Ottoson that the government is clear that this only applies in cases of little inconvenience to the countryside as a starting point, that it is not desirable to surrender under coercive conditions and that, of course, the starting point must be that this is done in collaboration between the actors. That was exactly how the then alliance government reasoned, which, as I understand, was the basis for what then came to be the REAL project.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-543	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for being clear in the parts in which he feels he can be clear. The conclusion of this is that there is a management problem with the Swedish Transport Administration, which, after all, is moving forward in this way. The following question to the Government will then be: Is he willing, within the framework of the regulatory letters submitted to the Finnish Transport Administration, to explain the need for a much more far-reaching process of collaboration with those who will receive the roadmaster's responsibility when such changes are made? A regulatory letter could include the fact that this kind of process is an important thing. Those who accept this feel that it is happening precisely in an obsessive form and in a way that the Government says should not be the case and is not desirable. When reality looks like it does, I think we have to adapt the map to reality and not the other way around. The question to the Government will then be: What measures is he willing to take to address this problem, which actually exists? Will we be able, in the next regulatory letter, to see wordings where this is further emphasised? We agree that this should be done in cooperation. However, cooperation does not have pre-elitist – only a message about how it will be. On such an important issue, which concerns hundreds of thousands of crowns, I can well imagine that the legal test lands in that it is no more than a small inconvenience to the countryside, but it may be more than a small inconvenience to the individual. How is the district defined? How large an area does it cover? Are they those who are directly connected to the road, or is it a larger area? This is crucial to what is or is not a minor inconvenience. I can well imagine that such a legal test would land in that it is no more than a minor inconvenience to the district, but for those who get liability for the road, it can be more than a minor inconvenience. It is clear that these things must be preceded by a proper process. Obviously, this is not in place, and the Government is responsible for the authority leading the way in this work.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-552	Madam President, I would like I will not do as the Member of Parliament and say how I think it will go or what the consequences may be. I think you should be careful about making that kind of statement. I think it goes without saying that the Finnish Transport Agency, like all other authorities, should strive for good processes in its dialogue with the surrounding area. I know from experience that the Swedish Transport Administration, which has long and extensive experience in planning new infrastructure, maintenance operations and the like, generally has good procedures for having a dialogue with affected landowners or other stakeholders. What it has been like in this particular case, of course, I cannot comment on – and I am not aware of it either – but I assume that the Finnish Transport Agency is based on the general directives that exist in terms of how to interact with the outside world. In my reply here, I am clear that compulsive transfers are not desirable. This is very clear. It can, of course, always be the case that we ultimately want to have a judicial review, and it is the government that will decide that. Again: The RÄV project started in 2013. It came from a discussion held by the then alliance government, which looked positively at the cooperation between the parties concerned and felt that this should continue. I believe that it is generally the case that it is possible to reach agreement if there is a well-functioning dialogue. If you have not had it in this case, it is, of course, unfortunate, but, as I said, I cannot comment on the particular case that Erik Ottoson chooses to bring forward. I agree with the division of roles that we have. In this case, the division of roles is clear: the government should make a general statement on this. Here I have explained our principled position, which is very clear. The answer to the question of the desirability of forced surrender is undoubtedly no.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-559	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In fact, it is within the government's ability to see whether there is a proper consultation process on the question of the transfer of roads. As he describes, there are established consultation processes regarding new construction and others, so to speak, positive actions taking place with our infrastructure. However, in this case, and obviously in other cases relating to similar situations, this is not really in place, and it is the Government that is responsible for the governance of the authority that is responsible here. The answer is that the Government is not willing to do anything, but he assumes that the Finnish Transport Administration is doing the right thing, even though it is obviously doing the wrong thing. This is a project that will take even greater proportions in the coming years, and then the intention of what the alliance government said in 2013 is crucial – this will happen in collaboration between the different parties. This obviously applies not only to the interaction between the already organised parties, but also to those who are forced into becoming parties, even though they have not yet organised themselves. This also applies to individuals along a route that suddenly receives a registered letter in the mailbox, where they are told that they will now be responsible for a path that they never before thought they would be responsible for. There too, cooperation must work. Clearly, any action by the Government Office is not to be hoped for, which is sad. I hope, however, that the very clear information that has come from the Government today will be heard all the way to Borlänge and the Finnish Transport Administration there, so that a proper consultation process can be carried out and so that we do not have situations where it is perceived as an obsessive handover of road maintenance responsibility.
i-954785c5aa3d5266-565	Madam President, I would like I can only repeat what is my responsibility as Minister in this. The first is to be clear in the answer to the principled basis, and I think that I have been – very clear. The second is, of course, to underline what I think is obvious, namely the responsibility of the Finnish Transport Administration, just like the responsibility of all other authorities, to have a good process before their decision-making and a good dialogue with the surrounding society. This applies generally to the Swedish Transport Administration, and it is my experience that they are very good at this. Again, I cannot, and will not, comment on this individual case, not least in view of the fact that the decision may be appealed and eventually put on the table of the government. It would be extremely inappropriate if I had spoken in an interpellation debate on the substance of the matter. I therefore stick to what is my responsibility as a member of the government, and that is to talk about the principled approach to this. It should also be quite clear to Erik Ottoson in this context.
