i-6MEsVbFt6mhBrxSz7o9UM8	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has asked how I, or the government, have acted to rekindle the discussion on Article 8 of the LULUCF Regulation and how the government ensures that the Swedish forestry industry is not compromised. Let me first say that Jonas Gjörtler and I share the view that the Member States of the European Union should continue to retain their right of self-determination over forestry issues. Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler claims that it is the Moderates and the Alliance that run the government on these issues. That's not true. The government has been active on issues surrounding LULUCF. Sweden is obviously an important country in these negotiations. The fact that the government would have lost the chance to express Swedish positions is simply wrong. Even before the Commission presented its proposal in July 2016, the Government had submitted written comments on LULUCF in the climate framework and sent detailed written comments on the proposed regulatory framework as late as Friday. That Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler now believes that Sweden should have written a letter that is not in line with the Swedish position is difficult to understand. It is true that the Government participated in discussions on a joint letter concerning the LULUCF Regulation with a number of other Member States. However, it became clear that Sweden could not hear a number of important positions, and we therefore chose to abstain. This concerned, among other things, the issue of using forest credits to compensate for continued fossil emissions, where Sweden wants to see a very restrictive regulatory framework. These are important positions to ensure environmental integrity throughout the EU's climate framework and fully in line with the Swedish position on the long-term climate benefits of forests in order to contribute to a fossil-free future. It is important that we have a clear and consistent Swedish line in EU negotiations, and it is worrying if Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler now proposes that the position be changed. With regard to Article 8, the government would have liked to see a Swedish position that allowed the countries themselves to choose which of two different methods they wanted to use to establish reference levels. This would have been useful in the ongoing negotiations because there are very different views on the issue of reference levels. The Council considered that this would increase the chances of a good outcome to the negotiations. Instead, the Moderates wanted to force all Member States to calculate them in the same way and not to open up to the majority of countries supporting reference levels that take account of historical usage intensity. I note that another country has now proposed this very compromise. As I have said before in committee, there are instructions for these negotiations to be given to anyone who wants to study in detail how instructions have been given. I can assure Jonas Gjörtler that the instructions given were in line with Sweden's position, which is also anchored in the EU Council and the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-8	Mr President, I would like to The forest is incredibly important for Sweden. I believe that the Government and I agree on that. The forestry industry employs about 100,000 people, and last year the export value was as much as SEK 125 billion. It is therefore a very important industry. The used forest is also a prerequisite for us to be able to meet the climate challenges we face. A forest that is not cared for and not managed does not grow properly and is therefore less effective in combating climate change. In addition, the goods from the used forest are a prerequisite for us to be able to replace fossil materials, fuels and fuels. According to the Forest Protection Act, production targets and environmental objectives must weigh equally with respect to forests. In practice, these are also closely linked, since private ownership of forests is the foundation for ensuring long-term responsibility through active forest management and profitable forestry. At the same time, it is essential for the protection of different environmental values. Unfortunately, we are now seeing in Sweden how the balance between these two goals is shifted and production is being squeezed. Many forest owners also rightly feel that ownership of the forest is being eroded. There are several examples of this. Perhaps the most important problem concerns the species protection regulation and its interpretation. Many have heard of the cases of bomb-wall claws and flag-shrinks that prevent forest owners from felling their forests. The authorities responsible also question whether this regulation is currently legally secure. These extremely serious views must be taken very seriously by the government. Another example concerns the right of appeal. There, the government wishes to further restrict property rights, for example by increasing the possibility of objecting to repercussions. The key biotopes, which in practice have come to mean a logging ban without being a formal protection, are another example in the line. The latest example is the EU framework for accounting for climate emissions from land use and forestry, which in EU Lingo has the abbreviation LULUCF. The Commission has presented a proposal which has generated a great deal of debate. In practice, it would give the EU the right to decide on Member States' levels of felling, and this would mean a huge restriction on the self-determination of forests. Unfortunately, I understand that the Swedish Government has been passive in the EU negotiations on LULUCF and has not clearly defended Swedish self-determination over the forest. Fortunately, we from the Moderates' and the Alliance's side have acted here in Parliament. We have repeatedly ensured that Sweden still operates a line that protects the Swedish forest and self-determination. This was done no later than a month ago when the Parliament actually changed and clarified the mandate to the government on this particular issue. However, since the government has been late and this mandate was requested only after this issue had actually been dealt with in the Council Working Group, I think it is important to clarify how, after the new position has been clarified, the government has pushed this position forward. It is also important to know how the government is now working to ensure that the consequence of late action is not that Swedish self-determination over the forest is compromised. I would like to see the Government clarify a little bit how the Government has acted after the new position came in order for this issue to land in the best possible way.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-20	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to say that I am very pleased that we in the Environmental Objectives Committee were seven parties that agreed on a long-term climate target for Sweden, that we should be net zero emitters by 2045 and that we should have a framework and a climate law that will guide us to really reduce emissions. We agree that the climate threat is real and that it is an existential challenge for this generation to really ensure that we reduce emissions. The EU's climate policy is central in this respect. We can do a lot in Sweden. But I also believe that we are very much in agreement that, by pushing Europe to have a common ambitious climate responsibility and a climate policy, we can do much more. The problem in the climate framework we are now discussing is that there are some Member States that want to be able to count off their forests in principle in order to avoid emission reductions. I think we can also agree that the forest is extremely important. The self-determination of forests is absolutely central to Sweden, and that is why we have proposed – and I am glad that we have a majority for it – that those countries that want to set their own reference level for forests should not be able to use it as an excuse not to reduce emissions in real life when it comes to cars, transport, industries and so on. So it is these two sectors that resist each other when we are discussing at European level. The government proposed to the committee that we should be able to set our own reference levels, just as we agree. At the same time, we should say that those countries that do should not be allowed to reduce their ambitions in reality, so to speak – when it comes to cars, industry and housing, that is, what releases. This is where we need to see a transition pressure. We need to see technological innovation in the area by area that will bring emissions down to zero, and we think that is possible. Some countries feel that they can sit still and do nothing, but instead refer to the fact that they have a growing forest. That is the problem I hope we are moving around, and I hope that we agree that it is the integrity of the EU's climate action that is what is important. Sweden has always been very involved in the discussions. We have sent written comments at EU level on a number of occasions; the last written input was made on Friday, 5 May, and it contained Sweden's positions after the discussion in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture on 6 April as interpreted by the Government. I do not agree with the description that we have been passive in some way, but we have pushed the position that Sweden should have self-determination over its forest and that we must monitor the ambition and environmental integrity of the EU's climate policy. If we leave the doors open to those who do not want to do their homework, I fear that we will not have Europe as the climate leader we need to see. I am also sorry that the Moderates have repeatedly acted to undermine Swedish cliamatism within the EU when we have gone to Parliament and the committee. We have wanted to undermine our position in a way that has actually reduced our credibility. I think that we should stand together to have an ambitious climate policy in Europe.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-28	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. With regard to the new written input that the Government mentions, both orally here and in the written reply, and which should have been given on Friday, it would be interesting to know a little more about it in order to really clarify what it looks like and see that it follows the position given by the Riksdag. In fact, I assume it does. I think it is important to bear in mind what is at stake and that we are clear that the Commission's proposal would mean that Sweden cannot use a sustainable level of felling without it being reported as emissions. That is what would be the essence of the Commission's proposal: if the need for wood increases but still falls within the framework of what the Swedish Forest Agency's analysis considers to be sustainable logging, it would still be regarded as emissions. This could mean, in the next step, that we in Sweden will have to import forest products in order to meet our climate commitments, instead of using our own raw material. That is why it is so incredibly important that Sweden acts clearly here. There is no room to be unclear and to deliver various options, but to be very clear about what is at stake. It is remarkable that the government is not acting more clearly against this, I think. What I also find most remarkable is that the Council of State, in its response to the interpellation, describes it in critical terms as the mandate dealing with the positions of the Moderates. It is also stressed when the Government says that the Moderates would have undermined the Swedish position. Firstly, the proposal to change the mandates presented to the committee by the four alliance parties. It came not from an individual party but from four parties. Secondly, when it became clear that there was a majority in favour of the Alliance, the governing parties chose to conclude behind it. If the changed position was now as bad as the Council of State is trying to give the impression that the members of the governing parties should have reported a different opinion. However, it was not done. There is no disagreement on the part of the government on this issue, and that means that it actually supports the position that the Government is now criticising. Mr President, I would like to I think this is really about something else. It is about what I described in my first speech, namely that the government, with the Minister for Climate Change and the Green Party at the head, on these issues would like to find ways of excluding more forest from production. That's why the government is not acting to get the Species Protection Regulation in order, and that's why the government is not trying to sort out the troublesome grey area regarding the Key Biotopes. This is also why the government writes in the budget that it wants to increase the right of appeal so that more people can object to logging. That is why the government has chosen to be passive first and then propose an unclear position when the EU proposes regulations that would in practice limit the possibilities for logging in Swedish forests. It is difficult, Mr President, to release oneself from the suspicion that the government has tried to sneak in restrictions on how Swedish forests can and may be used, in order to ensure that more Swedish forests are excluded from production. Why else has the government chosen passivity instead of activity? Why else has the government chosen to propose a different position, which would open up the possibility that the reference levels for Swedish logging should be determined on the basis of historical and outdated data – a method that considers forests more like a museum and does not take into account our forest growth? The forest in Sweden has doubled in 90 years. It's different from a lot of other countries. Why else has the government chosen not to hook arms with ten other countries with a lot of forest that has actively chosen to act on this issue?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-36	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for clarifying that it was an alliance position. I've never tried to keep that from you in any way. As for what the Moderates have been pushing, it was about the larger framework, when we talked about the EU emissions trading, where they actively pushed the government to change its position to one that was far less ambitious. It had undermined the EU's entire climate framework. Now Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler chooses to only aim for the forest. What is about species protection and so on, I think I have to refer to the minister responsible, but as the minister responsible for climate change, I can discuss the EU climate framework, which includes the so-called LULUCF at EU Lingo – the coal that can be absorbed by forests and soils – as well. Here the government has been very clear that it is important to have transparent calculation systems for the whole of the EU so that some Member States will not be able to cheat with the figures and come up with their own calculations and say that they will not have to make emission reductions. Our position has always been that forestry is a national concern, but transparency in the system is important for us to see emissions reductions for real. In the letter referred to by Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler, it says that the forest has a key role to play in achieving climate goals. The government's policy and the Environmental Objectives Committee's report refer to forests and LULUCF as a complementary measure, not a key role. The focus should be on reducing emissions, covered by the ESR, i.e. the national emission reduction commitments – not on creating carbon sinks in the forest. That was the contents of the letter. It was not Sweden's position, and the committee has not supported it. Therefore, Sweden could not sign. Furthermore, the letter states that the maximum limit for removals for managed forest land, 3 1⁄2 per cent of base year emissions, is no longer needed. On the contrary, our Swedish position, which we agreed in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture on 6 April, says that this limit is needed to ensure environmental integrity and to deal with uncertainties in emissions and removals from managed forest land. We have therefore acted entirely on the basis of the mandate of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture. It is very strange to argue that we should sign something when we have no mandate to do so. Of course, we have had a dialogue with the countries that have signed this letter and wanted to modify and change the wording so that we can stand behind it, but we have not heard about it. That's why it became impossible. Finally, I am very pleased that we were able to agree in committee that those countries that set their reference levels themselves should not be allowed to count off in the way that some countries want to open up to. There's a common position. I very much hope that Jonas Gjörtler and the Alliance will stand firm on this. Now this is a compromise proposal that is being put forward. We are involved in the discussions. We also need to come up with something at European level. Otherwise, the whole European Union's climate policy will fail, and I hope none of us will.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-44	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As far as the Alliance is concerned, it goes without saying that if the government acts on the basis of its position, we do not intend to change and now move on a different path. That is the direction we have laid down that is important. That's what we've been trying to say all along. We need to protect the forest. There's a problem here. Now the Government is trying to refer to another minister, and I can understand that in itself. This fits in with a wider context. We see this as a pattern: the Species Protection Regulation, the Key Biotopes and the Tale Law. Then there is this with LULUCF. It is nevertheless the case that the proposal presented by the Commission, which has not been sufficiently clear from the outset, would seriously affect and limit the possibilities for Swedish forestry. That would restrict self-determination. That's a problem. It is very difficult to release oneself from the suspicion that this would be part of such a pattern where the government back door tries to exempt more forest from production. As far as LULUCF is concerned, we fully agree that transparency is important, o intended if you land in one or two models. I still find it unfortunate that the government did not choose to try to get along with the other ten countries in order to have a firmer and more stable Swedish position to drive together in the EU. With regard to the wording that forests have a key role to play, it is difficult to disagree. I mentioned that at the outset. We need forest raw materials to replace fossil materials when it comes to construction, fuels, fuels and other things. Surely the forest has a key role to play. I believe that the government could have hooked arms with the ten countries in order to have a more stable position vis-à-vis the EU.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-49	Mr President, I would like to I note that Jonas Gjörtler chooses to distrust me no matter what I say. Read the instructions and what we have said in Brussels! I read them out loud in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture when I was there and received the same question from Jonas Gjörtler. They are available in writing. I do not understand why the honourable Member chooses to stand and repeat over and over again and suspect the work of the government when we have officials who professionally express the mandate of the government in our working groups in Brussels. There is no hidden agenda in which the Green Party or government is detouring to influence our professional officials who are doing their job in the negotiating room. It is quite remarkable to make such accusations. Then it was whether we were trying to get along with these countries. Now you're again questioning what I just said. We have had a number of rounds and have spoken to the countries that wanted us to sign the letter, and we got no. The government cannot possibly sign a letter that violates the positions given to it by the Committee on Environment and Agriculture. It is very strange to be so questioned in this way. Of course we've tried to do that. The issue was key or not key. I would say: the key role for the climate is to reduce emissions. Forests play an important role, and soil plays an important role as a carbon sink. But the permanent role in reducing emissions is to get electric cars and functioning fossil-free transport. We're supposed to have energy-efficient industries. We'll steer away from coal and oil. Then the Member States must do their homework. They cannot point to the forest and say: we do nothing more. That's the line we're running.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-54	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson has asked me whether I intend to take any initiative in order to regulate by law what the psyops unit may and may not do and whether I intend to instruct the Swedish Armed Forces in their work to distinguish between psyops and information activities more clearly. It is the Riksdag and the Government that decides on the overall design of the Swedish Defence Power Organisation. On this basis, the Swedish Armed Forces determine the detailed design of the military units necessary to meet the requirements for military operational capability. The Swedish Armed Forces' activities are governed by national and international law. The Swedish Armed Forces are responsible for ensuring that the units' operations are conducted in accordance with the applicable regulations. I see no reason now to initiate a legislative review in the field of psychological operations. I also have no reason to question the Swedish Armed Forces' detailed design of the agency's information activities or military units including the mandate and tasks of the units.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-57	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. When I read it, I thought of a job interview I was on, where I would describe my best quality with a maximum of 200 words. I wrote: Briefly. I thought it would impress the AACC, but it didn't. That was a very short and distinct answer. I have asked the Minister two questions. I'll remind you of them. The first is whether the Minister intends to take any initiative in order to regulate by law what the psyops unit may and may not do. Why now? The background is that in Sweden, unlike in the United States, there are no explicit prohibitions on carrying out psychological operations in Sweden. There is nowhere in the team room that you can't carry out psychopsies in Sweden, according to the head of the headquarters for psychological operations. What is illegal in the United States – that psychopsists try to influence the media, politicians or officials – is allowed in Sweden. However, Peter Hultqvist replies that he sees no reason now to initiate a legislative review in this area. Why not? Is it reasonable in this context that we are even lagging behind the United States? The clearly unclear legal situation has been investigated by Fredrik Konnander at the Swedish Defence University. He states exactly that. There are no legal restrictions on what psychops can do under Swedish law. But the Secretary of Defense is not interested, and I can't find any arguments for this disinterest. The second question was whether the Minister considers it essential to distinguish clearly between psyops and information activities. That, for me, a little astounding the answer is in plain language that the Minister does not care. Then why do I want to ask that question? The task of the unit is described as working and communicating in the information environment. That's good. The main task of the Psychic Unit is to influence target groups that you think need to be affected. This is what Lieutenant Colonel Björn Andersson says in the journal Focus, responsible at the headquarters for the psychological operations. It may be added that influence in the Armed Forces is defined as conscious projection or distortion of the truth. During the Afghanistan War, where, incidentally, parts of the Swedish psyops unit participated, something interesting happened. The Head of the ISAF Force, General David McKiernan, took a drastic decision to merge the psyops headquarters with the information activities. But maybe it wasn't so surprising after all. The differences between the information service and psychops can sometimes be perceived only by differences in the choice of channel and sender, says the Swedish Armed Forces' handbook for information operations. In addition, the same handbook states that both the media and government are included in the list of legitimate objectives for psyops. However, what is illegal in the United States – that psychopsists try to influence politicians, officials and the media – is allowed in Sweden. I think we should look into that. Does the Minister really not see any need to distinguish between information activities and a conscious projection or distortion of the truth? We're not supposed to have Russia as an example, are we?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-65	Mr President, I would like to In peacetime, the same laws and regulations that apply to other authorities, with all possibilities and limitations, also apply to the Swedish Armed Forces. No other legislation applies, but it is the same as for the other authorities. When it comes to the use of psychological operations in war, the exercise of authority is ultimately governed by the laws of war. Under the laws of war, a warring party may send out the message that is deemed to benefit its own forces and weaken its will to fight. That is the essence of the matter. To clarify this, the psyops unit does not run any free or self-initiated activities. The Psych unit acts on behalf, instructions or orders from the Swedish Armed Forces. Peacetime activities are characterised by practice activities and are scenario-based. Some further comments may be that the psyops unit operates within the framework of the Armed Forces' mandate. The Psychopsy has in a sharp situation the task of influencing the behaviour and attitudes of approved target groups, such as the opponent's military chiefs or units. This is a unit that is needed within the framework of the Swedish Armed Forces, and it is an operational resource that falls directly under the authority of the Operation Commander of the Swedish Armed Forces. The operations comply fully with the laws, regulations and order procedures applicable to other operations within the framework of the Swedish Armed Forces. Therefore, there is no reason to have any special legislation in relation to these activities. I believe that this is being done today in a way that is satisfactory, and there is no reason to take the type of action proposed by the interpeller.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-71	Mr President, I would like to Now it's not just un derkott who thinks this. The state media inquiry that came in 2016, A cross-border media policy, states that there is no clear legal regulation that prohibits the Swedish Armed Forces from using the entire power in the psyop unit's potential for influence against the entire population. The unclear boundary between information and influence is also addressed in the Swedish Armed Forces' handbook, which I quoted earlier here. Surely this is not entirely optimal. Of course, the best thing would be if everyone did the right thing all the time and so we didn't need any laws at all in any area. In such a world, however, none of us live, but they try to limit the things that may otherwise happen through legislative regulation and sanctions. The media investigation also suggests that there may be a risk that citizens are exposed to negative influences and that it is therefore important to define where the limits are for what authorities and other tax-funded activities have the right to do when it comes to the impact of the Swedish population, for example through psychological operations or other strategic communication. This should have been taken forward. Although I hope that the Minister for Defence is right to do his work in the most exemplary way – I also have no examples to the contrary – it is not on the basis that we normally run the country, and therefore my question remains: why not regulate this just as it has actually done in the United States, and why not clarify the difference between information and psychops?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-76	Mr President, I would like to It was good that the interpellant said he had no examples, because I was just about to ask about it. It was good that we had it investigated with immediate effect. It is easy to discuss risks and what might have happened. It is always possible to push the discussion in this direction so that it becomes provocative in different ways. However, I would like to repeat that there is no free, own business here. They work within the framework of the Swedish Armed Forces and the regulations and laws that the Swedish Armed Forces have, and act on behalf of the Swedish Armed Forces, directives and orders. Peacetime activities are characterised by practice activities and are scenario-based. This is the base. Should there then be some form of influence surgery directed against the Swedish population outside of this framework, I am sure that not only would I react to it. This would probably also be the response of the Swedish Armed Forces' leadership, as it is something that does not match the focus on how the Swedish Armed Forces should act and what governs the entire Swedish Armed Forces' activities. In that case, we would start to have specific regulations in all parts of the Swedish Armed Forces' operations. The situation is that in peacetime you have to deal with the same laws and regulations that apply to the other authorities in this country. In connection with a war situation, the approach is that it is the laws of war that apply, and then we can see that there is a simplicity in how this is to work. I am therefore not going to engage in various types of speculation and possible risk scenarios here. J ag notes that this is how the business works, and this is how I perceive that it is also trying to comply with the regulations. I have never heard of anything else, and apparently the interpeller has not. This is, therefore, ultimately an operational resource under the authority of the Operation Commander, and it also means that they cannot be any kind of independent activity that initiates their own campaigns against Members of Parliament or other decision-makers. I therefore believe that it is a scenario which is in no way up to date or in any way in line with reality.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-82	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again for your answer, Minister. It is incredibly good if there are not yet any examples, but the idea is that it would be even better to work preventively. Since, unlike the United States, we have not regulated this by law, what would prevent it from actually doing so? That's a serious question. Not least these days, we are trying to be increasingly alert to various influence operations, at least if they come from a certain direction, and that is wise and good. But then we also need to make sure that we clean up properly in front of our own door, both with legislation and instructions to distinguish information from propaganda. This psyop unit has been active in both Afghanistan and Libya, and it would be interesting to learn perhaps what experience and knowledge has been acquired there. What applies, then, is once again that the mission of the psyops unit is to work and communicate in information environments and to discover misleading information and influence attempts from other actors – great things. According to Lieutenant Colonel Björn Andersson, it is also about influencing target groups that need to be affected, according to what you think. Influence is defined as conscious projection or distortion of truth, and then you can start to get a little worried. When you can read in the same handbook that both the media, government and parliament are legitimate operational goals, I think there are good reasons to think a little bit about steering this up a little more and not just trusting that it will work out and that they will probably do their job properly. It is also a protection for them to know where the borders are. Why not regulate this just as has been done in the United States? Why not distinguish between information and propaganda?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-88	Mr President, I would like to I have to repeat what I have said before: under the laws of war, a warring party may send out the message that is deemed to benefit its own forces and weaken the will of the attacker to fight. In these contexts, it may also be a question of sending messages to military workers and to units on the opposing side. What is taken is perfectly legitimate according to the laws of war and what I assume this head of unit refers to in the quotes that Stig Henriksson gives. That is how the business is regulated, and that is what governs it. In peacetime, the laws and regulations that apply to the other authorities apply, and there is no possibility here to carry out any free business of their own. So you are under the authority of the Operation Commander, and what you do in peacetime is practice that is scenario-based. I could never imagine that the type of activity the interpeller is considering here is current or has been up to date. This is about practice in peace, and it is about how to deal with a situation in war. I think we need a unit like this. I believe that this is an important competence for the Armed Forces, and I do not think that I have any reason to take any action whatsoever in relation to this interpellation.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-92	Mr President, I would like to Pål Jonson has asked me whether it is still my position and that of the government that there is uncertainty about the common defence obligations within NATO, whether, in my opinion, confidence in the common defence obligations is important to safeguard the European security regime and whether it is my position and that of the government, like the previous government, that it is also important for Sweden's security that there is strong confidence in the common defence obligations within NATO. Since accession, the US administration has confirmed US support for NATO on various occasions. From a European and a Swedish perspective, it is important that the United States continues to be involved in Europe's security. The government as well as the Defence Committee have stated that it is of great importance that NATO maintains confidence in collective security guarantees. NATO's measures to ensure the security of the Allies contribute to the regional stability of our neighbourhood. NATO security guarantees are ultimately a matter for the Member States themselves. Sweden is not a member of NATO and is not part of the collective defence. Sweden's security policy line is solid. Our military freedom of alliance serves us well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. It requires an active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy combined with enhanced defence cooperation, especially with Finland, and a credible national defence capability. Sweden's foreign and security policy is based on cohesion in the EU and increased cooperation on a broad front: in the Nordic region and the Baltic Sea region, within the UN and the OSSE, with NATO and through a strong transatlantic link. The combination of military alliance freedom, strengthened national military capabilities and deepened cooperation with others is based on a Swedish model aimed at minimising tensions. This increases our ability to promote predictability and stability in Europe and in our neighbourhood. Safeguarding and maintaining the European security regime is important for both European and American security. Europe and the United States share common interests, and many global challenges require Europe and the United States to act together. Transatlantic cooperation remains fundamental to European security.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-99	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister for what I think is a clear and clear-cut response to NATO's important role in European security policy. I appreciate that the government is clear about this, although we have different views as to whether it is in Sweden's interest or not to join the defence alliance. The reason I put this interpellation was that during the foreign policy debate the Foreign Minister said that we knew nothing about the future of NATO's security guarantees and that it was the truth. My purpose is not to take sentences out of context, and I also have respect for the fact that things can change depending on what governments do and say during the journey. However, if the government does not have confidence in NATO's security guarantees, it is also a serious problem for Swedish security, in the light of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said. However, I interpret the foreign minister's response as taking on board the signals that the new US administration has sent out in recent months to reassure the European allies of the importance of American engagement. Mr President, I would like to Although Sweden is not a member of NATO, we are, of course, deeply dependent on the security that NATO maintains by being the only organisation that secures and secures the vast majority of European borders. Swedish dependence on NATO has increased following Russia's aggression against Ukraine and illegal annexation of Crimea. It is clear that Russia does not respect international law or the borders and sovereignty of other countries. This is ultimately also the reason why Sweden has chosen to deepen its cooperation with NATO in recent years. It is therefore important that there is strong confidence in the common defence obligations of NATO. It was therefore a little unfortunate that the Foreign Minister so strongly questioned NATO's defence obligations during the foreign policy debate. I have not heard any NATO country express itself in the same way, and I believe that there are basically three reasons for this. Firstly, the common defence obligations are based on international agreements and treaties, which have soon been in place for 70 years. It's not something you can or you want to change overnight. In other words, NATO has been a very successful defence alliance for a long time. Secondly, what really gives credibility to NATO's common defence obligations is joint defence planning. It is not only about saying that you should defend each other, but also about practicing, training, planning and dedicating military resources to this every day. It's important and good. Thirdly, if we say that NATO's defence obligations are not credible, we risk weakening the alliance's war-responsive capacity. It sends a signal that you do not trust NATO. I think you should be a little cautious about that. After all, the whole NATO concept is based on a credible war-resisting capability. Given that NATO has become an increasingly important organisation for Swedish and European security policy, it is natural for me to land in the conclusion that the best way to influence and take responsibility for this organisation is to become a full member. The Foreign Minister also says that American involvement in Europe is important, and I share this view. However, this American commitment is based on NATO and ultimately the existence of treaty commitments from the US towards Europe. If Sweden wants to strengthen the US presence in Europe, it would be natural to become a member of the Defence Alliance.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-110	Mr President, I would like to I will not go into the debate and discuss how successful the military alliance has been in Afghanistan and Libya and what their people might think about it. I'm going to go into a completely different line. Article 5 is often a little poorly read. You see it as a defence guarantee: one for all, all for one. That's quite a long way. However, it states, as in many other similar documents, including the Treaty of Lisbon and the Declaration of Solidarity, that if one State is attacked, the others shall assist the party or parties thus attacked by taking, individually and in agreement with the other parties, measures which are immediately deemed necessary, including the use of armed force, to restore and maintain security in the North Atlantic area. This means that armed violence is not automatically included in response to an attack, but that support can be provided in other ways. It may be good to remember that Article 5 is not unconditional when it comes to absolute military assistance. According to the Treaty and depending on the political situation in the world, the appeal of an affected Member State for assistance may be met by the alliance brothers in a way that may not have been anticipated. Do the others think that the attack should not be judged as an attack or if they do not want to stand up and so on, according to the tract, they can not, as long as they provide support in other ways. It may be good to remember this, because the debates often seem to reflect a different view of what Article 5 says and what it means.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-115	Mr President, I would like to Pål Jonson's interpellation is time bound in a way. It was posed at a time when there was uncertainty as to where the United States actually stood – this in the light of statements in Donald Trumps's election campaign and the uncertainty that prevailed before the new president's administration had taken office. I was not the only one who wondered how things were actually going. Of course, the NATO countries were particularly keen to have statements that made clear exactly where the United States stood. Regrettably, respecting treaties and international obligations does not apply to, for example, the climate agreement. Statements of this kind caused great concern. We are at a time when standards, cooperation and institutions that are central to our security are being called into question or put under strong pressure. Russia's aggression against Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea are fundamentally challenging the entire European security regime. Respect for the territorial integrity of each country and the right to make independent safety policy choices are the foundations of the European security regime. Defending this regime is important both for Europe and for American security and is of fundamental security policy interest to us. Uncertainty still prevails around certain American positions on a number of political issues, and some statements during the election campaign contributed to this, as I said. However, the policy is clarified as the new administration arrives and develops its positions. The statements made since the accession of the administration have been clear in their support for NATO's security guarantees. Both President Trump and Vice President Pence as well as Minister of Defence Matti and Minister Tillerson have confirmed US support for NATO and its collective and defence guarantees. This, of course, is important for stability and security in Europe. At the same time, the demands on the Allies to achieve the 2% target for national defence expenditure have become much more pronounced. We still regard transatlantic cooperation as central to European security. It is a priority for the government, and it is important in the EU and the OSSE, in the framework of our partnership with NATO, but also as a basis for our bilateral defence cooperation. In an uncertain environment, it is important that the Swedish security policy line is firm, consistent and clear. We build security together with others. Military alliance freedom, together with strengthened national defence capabilities combined with enhanced cooperation, are the three legs of our security policy and increase our ability to promote predictability and stability in Europe. We need to use the full range of security policy instruments we have, both in the neighbourhood and on the global stage. But I do not think we should take the NATO debate here, because that was not the purpose of the interpellation.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-125	Mr President, I would like to I just have a brief comment on Stig Henriksson. That is exactly the case; there is no automaticity in Article 5, but what makes Article 5 more important than Article 42(7) of the Treaty of Lisbon is the common defence planning. You practice and practice every day, and this gives you credibility. Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the clarification. I am pleased that there is greater confidence in the common defence obligations now within the government. This is important I cannot refrain from returning to the other half of the answer, namely the motives for military alliance freedom. The Foreign Minister said that this freedom of alliance contributes to security and stability in the Baltic Sea region. We now have a fairly good knowledge of what a possible Swedish NATO membership would mean, since we have had two state investigations that have looked at this. I am thinking of Tomas Bertelman's investigation and Krister Bringéus' investigation Security in a new era. Krister Bringéus says that the most tangible military effect of a Swedish NATO membership would be that the uncertainty that exists today linked to how Sweden would act in the event of an armed attack would disappear. NATO membership would, in short, have a war-resisting effect and be beneficial for both Sweden and the other allied countries of the Baltic Sea region. Tomas Bertelman is a bit on the same track in his investigation. He says that we are so close to NATO that we can hardly fail to be identified with the Alliance, but without the protection or effectiveness of cooperation that full membership would entail. The bottom line, then, is that we are perceived as belonging to NATO but that we do not have any security guarantees. I say this in the light of the fact that the Foreign Minister said that military alliance freedom is good for stability and security in the Baltic Sea region. I note that two state investigations have made different assessments. The Minister for Foreign Affairs usually talks about the importance of continuity in the security policy line and that this is fixed no matter what happens in the outside world, at least when it comes to the alliance issue. Our neighbour Finland chose in June 2016 to introduce a NATO option in its security policy line. They have not become as clear as the government on the issue of alliance membership, but keep the door open for future NATO membership, should there be a majority in favour of it. I therefore wonder: Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs understand that this creates problems or ambiguities in Finland's security policy line? In that case, I am of a different opinion. To conclude, Mr President, I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs highlighted in his reply that Finland has a special position in our security policy. I share that view. We should have the ability to act in peace, crisis and conflict; that is important and good. I am a little more surprised that the Foreign Minister does not mention the deepening of bilateral cooperation with the United States, which I know the government has worked very hard to establish and which I think is very good in essence. The harsh reality of Russia's attack on Ukraine is that military alliance freedom, combined with a limited defence, is no longer a truly sustainable security policy solution. We need support, and we need to interact with others. In my world, this can be done either by believing and hoping for a bilateral agreement with the United States or by choosing the path of multilateralism through membership of NATO. Sweden usually likes international organisations and multilateral agreements – why not in the case of NATO?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-135	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the debate. It is important for security in Europe and in particular for all NATO countries to maintain confidence in collective security guarantees. NATO has now decided on strengthening measures in the Baltic countries. That is an important part of this. We strive for common security, and it is built together with others. It concerns the work of the UN Security Council and the EU, the UN, the OSSE and the Council of Europe, as well as our partnership with NATO through the transatlantic link and also with our Nordic and Baltic neighbours, not least Finland. Each country has an obligation to look after its own security policy interests and choose a path. We should not interfere in this, but we cooperate closely, not least with Finland. In the light of the deteriorating world situation, it is important that Sweden's security and prosperity can be defended and preserved and, above all, that we strengthen cooperation in the EU. European unity is a prerequisite for us to be able to assert our interests and values. Within the framework of the military freedom of alliance, which we do not intend to change, we are developing the partnership with NATO. Political dialogue and exchange of information with NATO on the security of our neighbourhood is important. None of the investigations have said that there are any direct military threats to Sweden. Together with NATO, Sweden and Finland have an interest in understanding the development of our neighbourhood and contributing to increased security, predictability and stability. The partnership with NATO also contributes to the development of the Swedish Armed Forces and both the national defence capabilities and the ability to carry out operations within and outside the area. This is what is most relevant in that case. We are also strengthening national defence capabilities. We have had agreements in Parliament on two occasions now to increase the financial resources for the defence. The last decision involved resources for civil defence. Added to this will be the prevention of conflicts. Diplomacy and foreign policy are our main line of defence. The breadth of security policy instruments at our disposal – diplomacy, military capabilities, mediation and confidence-building measures – increases our ability to promote predictability and stability in Europe and the neighbourhood. Through an active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy, we are creating such opportunities, both in Europe and in the neighbourhood and globally.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-143	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for this interpellation debate. We share some views and differ in others, as we probably knew earlier. I argue that it is impossible to escape the fact that Sweden is facing a very serious and deteriorating security policy situation, which should reasonably have consequences for the security policy line and also open up to a serious Swedish NATO debate. Russia has, through its aggression against Ukraine and also provocation against Sweden and a number of other countries, raised the security policy temperature in the Baltic Sea. It is good that NATO is now actually strengthening its military presence through the Enhanced Forward Presence in the Baltic Sea region, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentions. At the National Conference of People and Defence in Sälen last year, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist said that Sweden would unfailingly be drawn into a military conflict if such a conflict occurred in the Baltic countries. This is also the Swedish Armed Forces' assessment. This is also a thesis raised by Bertelman and Bringéus. An individual attack on us is not likely, but there is a risk of what is called consequence aggression. The bottom line is that military alliance freedom has played a little bit of a role in that it will not help us to stay out of military conflicts in our neighbourhood, whether we like it or not. With such an assessment in mind, I believe that military alliance freedom is not as relevant and that it would be better to join NATO and, together with the allied countries around the Baltic Sea region, to strengthen the war-resisting capacity. The Foreign Minister raises the importance of detente, not least in relation to Russia. I, too, would like to see relaxation towards Russia, but I believe that the conditions for finding a relaxation are very small as long as Russia does not accept the borders of other countries or their right to make safety policy choices. Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the debate.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-148	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Pål Jonson, for a good debate on this important issue! We believe that Sweden, Europe and the United States have everything to gain by bringing about a rule-based world order. It is above all about collaborations – we believe in cooperation – and we will design them based on our interest, our situation and our security policy assessments. We can do this when we have greater flexibility. Then, for example, we can work against nuclear weapons in the world, as we do. We have taken Sweden down from the spectator gallery on nuclear disarmament and disarmament issues, and we are now very active in this. We can do this on the basis of our own and a global interest. We must act together in Europe and with the United States as much as possible in the future. That is why we are committed to transatlantic cooperation, which is central to European security and therefore to Swedish security. We will not change our security policy approach when it comes to maintaining the combination of military alliance freedom, strengthening national military capabilities and deepening cooperation. That is how it becomes predictable, and that is how we can realistically act against the challenges we face.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-152	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson has asked me what questions Sweden will pursue in the negotiations on an international nuclear ban, how such a ban should be designed to give effect, whether nuclear-free countries' ability to contribute and whether nuclear-free zones in the Nordic countries and Europe could be a step along the way. Sweden joined last year the vast majority of countries that supported a decision at the UN General Assembly to negotiate a ban on nuclear weapons. It was a position that was preceded by a comprehensive analysis and dialogue with Parliament, but also with civil society organisations within the framework of the International Law and Disarmament Delegation, which we have established again. A first round of negotiations took place in New York last week. Negotiations will resume next June. This is an extremely important process that deserves our active commitment. It emanates from the humanitarian perspective of nuclear weapons, which have grown stronger in the international debate. Unfortunately, it has to be said that nuclear weapons have once again been caught in the eye. One element of this worrying development is the investment made by some nuclear weapons states to modernise their arsenals. Another is the more prominent role given to nuclear weapons in political and military strategic thinking. Another is the challenge for the global non-proliferation regime posed by North Korea's nuclear ambitions. The risk of nuclear weapons actually being used – intentionally or unintentionally – must be taken seriously. All of this adds to the frustration of the lack of progress in the work on nuclear disarmament. It is therefore more urgent than ever that the impasse in the field of disarmament can be lifted and that concrete steps can actually be taken towards the overall goal of a nuclear-free world. The government considers that the prohibition process can contribute to this. This is the background to Sweden's active participation in the ongoing negotiations. A proper draft of the Convention on Prohibition has not yet been presented. Sweden's general aspirations, however, are agreements that serve Swedish security policy interests and that help to strengthen the norm against the use and possession of nuclear weapons. From the government's side, we regret that the possessor countries have chosen not to engage in the process. It would have been better if that had been the case. The door should remain open and a convention should be designed to facilitate future accession. A central Swedish starting point is that the prohibition process cannot in any way replace the fundamental role of the NPT, the Non-Proliferation Treaty. On the other hand, it could pave the way for the implementation of still unfulfilled disarmament commitments made under the Non-Proliferation Treaty. We will work consistently to ensure that this is reflected in a future convention. In parallel, a broad-based Swedish commitment to the success of NPT's 2020 Review Conference is being prepared. Today, over 100 countries are covered by different types of nuclear-free zones and in different parts of the world. These are valuable contributions to the work of a nuclear - free world. The issue of zones in the Nordic countries or Europe lacks topicality, and the government's focus is therefore on the ongoing prohibition negotiations. It is not possible today to say whether the prohibition process will eventually bear fruit. As early as last year's vote at the UN General Assembly, the government indicated that a final national position – ultimately by the Riksdag – can only be made when a result of the negotiations exists.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-162	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have asked three questions, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has answered them on time. In large parts, I am satisfied with the interpellation response, although I think it is a little thin when it comes to the question of which questions Sweden will push in the negotiations. However, there is a sentence in the answer, Mr President, which puzzles me: I've been trying to figure out what's really meant by this. I shall, however, refrain from speculating and instead allow the Foreign Minister to develop the meaning and meaning of it. What, then, are the demands that we could pursue? In parallel, for example, we can push a stop to finance, assist or otherwise encourage the weapons that Sweden wants to ban. Could it be something? I would also like us to have greater popular pressure on the issues, because I think they are quite unknown today. One could perhaps make a drive within the country and internationally as one spreads knowledge of the negotiations and the conditions for them. Furthermore, of course, I agree with the Minister that the door should remain open and a convention should be designed to facilitate future accession. That's great. But what I cannot understand is what Sweden's representative Eva Walder said in the debate about the fact that it must also be possible to withdraw. Why is this important to stress? As I said, I am not conspirative, but if I were, I would think that this was said to keep the door open to whether Sweden would want to enter into a nuclear alliance in future, such as NATO. For me, Sweden has never made a UN agreement. But since the government's declared policy is not that we should become a member of NATO – thank you for that! – gets the emphasis that it is important to be able to leave a deal with me to wonder about it. Furthermore, a Swedish law that unequivocally prohibits the introduction, transit and more of nuclear weapons into Sweden's territory, I think could be a support to raise the issue nationally and internationally and complement this. Finland has this. In its 1987 Nuclear Energy Act, Section 4 of the Nuclear Energy Act states clearly that it is prohibited to introduce nuclear charges to Finland and to produce, possess and blast them here. Even New Zealand has, despite American protests, passed such a law on the initiative of the then Labour Government – in 1987 the New Zealand Nuclear Free Zone, Disarmament, and Arms Control Act was adopted. What does the Minister say about such a law? Wouldn't that be something for Sweden too? With regard to working in parallel for a nuclear-free zone in the Nordic countries and Europe, the Minister answers, however, that the question of zones in the Nordic countries or Europe is not topical and the government's focus is therefore on the ongoing prohibition negotiations. Of course it's true. But the question lacks topicality for the simple reason that nobody drives it. It can create topicality if Sweden, preferably together with others, pushes this issue. Why shouldn't we? We can't make the best of the good's enemy. It is also true that there are now 180 tactical nuclear weapons deployed by the United States in five countries in Europe. I cannot understand anything else, unschooled as I am, but that it can really be discussed whether it takes is not a crime against the NPT. How do we deal with such a question? Can it be addressed in this context? I understand that I shower the Minister with questions, but this is a terribly important thing.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-170	Mr President, I would like to That is true: this is indeed an urgent issue. Unfortunately, it has become increasingly important. I would like to begin by taking the opportunity to describe a little bit the ban negotiations that have just begun in New York. Negotiations on a nuclear ban – or more formally, a legally binding instrument to ban nuclear weapons – have recently begun. It is true that our disarmament co-founder, Eva Walder, is our chief negotiator. Hundreds of countries took part in this discussion, which was marked by both seriousness and reflection, but also the hope of being a step on the road to a nuclear - free world. The nuclear arms holders and most of their allies chose not to participate, as I said earlier in my interpellation response. However, civil society had a strong presence during the first week of negotiations, and there is no doubt that this has been a very strong driving force for these negotiations. In principle, all those who spoke stressed the importance of the Non-Proliferation Treaty as the cornerstone of disarmament and international security. Many also stressed that this ban should not be seen as a substitute for existing agreements, but as a step among many on the road to complete disarmament. Several, including us from the Swedish side, deplored the fact that some countries, particularly the nuclear weapons owners themselves, chose not to participate. Many described the objective of a convention in terms of banning the possession and use of nuclear weapons in all possible circumstances. The instrument will establish a standard that clearly prohibits nuclear weapons, which in turn would have a stigmatising effect on both the possession and use of these terrible weapons. From the Swedish side, we indicated that the goal should be an instrument that strengthens the norm against nuclear weapons – a ban where the humanitarian perspective is central and that meets Sweden's overall security policy interests. Then why do you say that? Yes, it goes without saying that this must always be our starting point. This is about the government securing the security of our people. We'll do it together. That is why we are committed to international conventions. Another objective should be that the ban is not only compatible with the Non-Proliferation Treaty but also strengthens the existing framework. We also stressed the importance of having a gender perspective on the impact of nuclear use and the relevance of some form of verification of non-nuclear state compliance. We believe that this can add additional weight and credibility to the Convention, even to those who have chosen not to participate. Non-nuclear states have committed themselves to refraining from acquiring nuclear weapons and have maintained this. We do not believe that it is reasonable for new requirements to be imposed on us to any great extent. Negotiations will resume this summer, and it remains to be seen whether an agreement will be reached within the three-week timeframe. We are prepared for the negotiations to continue very well in the course of next year as well. It is true that there is a need for popular pressure. I will want to contribute to this and to involve civil society organisations. Are new laws needed? I don't think you should rule anything out. It's good that everything comes up on the table. Remember, we have put this question back on the table! It did not exist before but was also dead here in Sweden. It's a good thing we have to discuss it. Is it possible to create topicality for nuclear-free zones? Yes, perhaps, but the problem is that many countries are NATO members and have it much more difficult. We have different security policy starting points. That is why you start uphill with a question that you may not be able to bring to port. Such considerations are also behind it.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-180	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the clarification. I really think it is good that we are running these issues as a nation. We have all the credit for that. But I'm still a little surprised. I understand in general that all agreements we sign should, of course, serve Swedish security policy interests. I have just been so desperate to understand how an agreement to ban nuclear weapons would not do so per se. How could it be formulated in this way? As I said, this is combined with the incomprehensible and uncommented speech by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the General Assembly to stress the need to withdraw. It puzzles me a little bit. What would be our interest if there were no kind of NATO connection here? The latter I hate to believe and find it very hard to believe. The Minister goes on to say in the interpellation answer: alas, nuclear weapons are once again caught in the eye. I do not agree with that. I think it is good that they are caught in the eye, because the situation is as serious as it is. The world is heavily arming nuclear weapons. The agreement with Iran is certainly a success, but otherwise it looks dark. We know about North Korea. It's well documented. Russia is modernising its nuclear weapons at a cost unknown to me. The United States already decided under Obama to modernise its nuclear weapons to the staggering sum of $350 billion over ten years. This means that the US spends 1,000 times more on modernising and maintaining its nuclear weapons than on disarming them – something it is obliged to start doing according to the NPT. The British nuclear weapons will also be modernised. The current Trident system costs GBP 1.8 billion a year, and now these weapons are to be modernised for 15 to 20 billion. It was already decided under the Blair regime, so it is well in full swing. Then there is this new tendency to develop tactical nuclear weapons that are intended to be used in direct warfare, something that the peace movement and some non-nuclear states have noticed, but I think the population in general is not aware of. In the past, the principle has been that nuclear weapons are used in order not to use them, so-called terrorist balance. But the more you develop small and light nuclear weapons, the more you lower the threshold for their use. It is therefore urgent – hence my questions and tips. I still wonder, for example, whether this push for a stop to finance, assist or otherwise encourage these weapons, which we want to ban. Then there are those who think it is naive and foolish to think that you can ban nuclear weapons. But there's nothing strange about it at all. Three types of weapons of mass destruction are usually expected, and we have banned two of them. It is true that there are crimes against this, but then it is recognised that it is a crime. Now we have to ban the third, which is most dangerous to our survival. I think that we should try to find all kinds of ways and test them in these negotiations, because it is very hard-to-work matter. And as I said, the fact that nuclear weapons are not being dismantled and that nuclear weapons are being placed in nuclear-free countries means – I cannot understand anything else, layman as I am – a crime against the NPT. What do we do about it, Minister?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-186	Mr President, I would like to In fact, we agree on the approach and analysis, Stig Henriksson. It has been urgent that this has become topical and has climbed onto the political agenda. But it has happened for the wrong reason – not because you want them removed in the first place, but because you actually rearrange your nuclear weapons instead. A series of solutions or steps on the way forward should not be excluded. I am willing to discuss both this and that proposal. I think it is good that there is a framework – an international one – where we say that cooperation is the most effective way forward. If we can already have more than a hundred countries with us in the discussion, the implementation of the final result will be better and more effective, we must hope, because this is important. I assume that the views expressed may have to do with, for example, legal reasons or respect for each country's security policy legislation. It could also be interesting to mention something about how we can get involved and what we actually do. Not only do we have strong political commitment, but we also have outstanding technical expertise from the Swedish side. We believe that any initiative that can bring us closer to the goal of a nuclear-free world should be tested. We have close dialogue and cooperation with both nuclear and non-nuclear states. We agree that the NPT is of fundamental importance, and we believe that the challenges facing the NPT Review Conference are very significant. The international situation is strained and the debate is polarised, and it is now a matter of influencing the nuclear states to want to contribute. The Test Ban Treaty and its entry into force are also among our disarmament priorities, and North Korea's provocations and trials – contrary to Security Council resolutions – demonstrate the importance of this. Since the 1990s, we have been one of the biggest champions of the CTBT, as it is said, and we have had continuous political commitment. Through FOI, we also contribute with verification technology for use within the framework of the international monitoring system. I met Lassina Zerbo himself, who is head of the CTBTO, when he visited Sweden in February. This is something that is not often noticed but which I think is important that we emphasise and are proud of. Another very important element is risk reduction – that nuclear states lower the level of preparedness in their arsenals. This is an issue that Sweden is pursuing together with a group of countries – Switzerland, Chile, New Zealand, Malaysia and Nigeria – as arrangements that allow weapons to be fired with a few minutes' notice increase the risk of premature and escalating decisions. It is in everyone's interest to avoid such situations. In addition, Sweden participates in nuclear disarmament verification collaborations, and we are committed to an agreement that prohibits the production of fissile materials for weapons purposes. We have a lot of tracks to work on. I think that is the way in which the issue should be brought forward. We should engage widely and involve civil society much more than we have done so far, so that we get popular engagement. I agree that this is very important.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-197	Mr President, I would like to I would like to link this with the alert threshold, because it is just as the Minister says: even in peacetime, a nuclear war can be triggered. By mistake, the world can end. We've been on the verge of this several times. Perhaps we came closest to 26 September 1983– then the world could have ended, but almost no one knew about it. What happened was that a lonely man, Stanislav Petrov, prevented a nuclear war. Suddenly, Russian so - called Oko satellites — spy satellites in space — perceived something alarming. The alarm went – it was not known that it was a NATO exercise simulating a nuclear attack, but it was interpreted as an immediate nuclear attack. Commander of Missile Surveillance, Lieutenant Colonel Petrov, received intelligence that an American intercontinental missile had been fired in the direction of the Soviet Union. If he had followed his instructions, he would have triggered the answer, but he disobeyed given orders. In addition, when you know that he would not actually have served that evening, you can say that civilization was saved by mere chance, rather than by a sick colleague, who might have been less inclined to defy given orders. To have extended times for response and reaction, so that it will take a little longer, is a very important thing in all simplicity. This, of course, requires those who possess nuclear weapons to assume that responsibility. But in the long run, it won't last. Together with climate change, this is something that not only risks causing serious disruption, accidents and misery, but threatens the survival of all mankind. It is therefore urgent that the last weapon of mass destruction be banned, and I am pleased that the Swedish Government is working for this.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-203	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Stig Henriksson, for a fine debate on this important issue! In our national security strategy, we write like this: It is a clear interest in security policy for us that the stalemate that has long characterised multilateral cooperation in the field of nuclear disarmament can be lifted. ..................................................... We believe that the current ban negotiations can contribute to this and that they can be pushed forward. I would also like to emphasise the breadth of Swedish commitment. With a knowledgeable and informed debate and with a great deal of commitment, we can take this issue forward. I think that any initiative with the potential to lead to concrete progress in disarmament and non-proliferation should be seriously tested, and so we continue to focus on this. Think how important it is to think independently and sometimes also to act independently, as Stig Henriksson's example shows!
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-207	Mr President, I would like to Robert Halef has asked me how, through the UN Security Council and the EU Foreign Council, I will work to secure financial resources and an action plan for the reconstruction of the Nineves plain and parts of Mosul, and how Sweden, for example through the UN Security Council and the EU, will help to speed up the reconstruction of Christian and other ethnic minorities in Iraq. The devastation that ISIL, or Daish, has mercilessly spread and that has hit and driven out large parts of the civilian population in Iraq – not least Christians and other minorities – is a human disaster. I am very concerned about their situation, and I share Robert Halef's view that people on the run must be given the opportunity to return home. Sweden provided more than SEK 200 million in direct support through Sida in 2016 to alleviate the humanitarian crisis in Iraq and is a major donor of non-earmarked core support to several UN agencies with operations in the country. Following the military successes, not least the ongoing readmission of Mosul, the international community must assist Iraq in looking ahead to ensure stabilisation and long-term reconstruction. Sweden's commitment to Iraq and its entire population is broad and long-term. A five-year development cooperation strategy with Iraq will be launched in the second half of 2017 and will cover up to SEK 1 billion. The focus will be on peace-building, state-building and gender equality to promote peaceful and democratic development in Iraq. The Minister for International Development Cooperation and Climate Cooperation, Isabella Lövin, visited Sweden on 4-7 March to consolidate Swedish support and talk about support needs with Iraqi representatives, the UN and civil society. The Minister also visited the city of Falluja, which was released from Daish in June 2016, to take part in the reconstruction work under way in liberated areas. Since 2015, the Government has contributed SEK 125 million to UNDP's stabilisation fund in Iraq. The support is intended to support efforts to stabilise Daish-free areas through the reconstruction of infrastructure and ensuring access to basic public services. This makes it easier for IDPs to move back to their homes. The Fund contributes to stabilisation measures in Nineve in north-west Iraq and also plans actions in Mosul once the city is freed. The extensive landmines in Iraq contribute to further difficulties in return. Sweden has therefore supported mine clearance efforts in Iraq in 2016 with SEK 15 million through Mine Action Group and Danish Demining Group. Sweden is also actively working towards increased EU engagement in Iraq in support of long-term stabilisation and reform of Iraq's security sector as well as for political reforms. As part of this work, Sweden is working for the EU to set up a civilian support operation. In the UN Security Council, Sweden is working to support the UN Political Mission in Iraq, UNami, and its work to promote national peace-building and stabilisation measures. In the Security Council, we are also pushing for humanitarian issues to be given greater attention by the international community, including strengthened resources for the UN's humanitarian work in the run-up to the full readmission of Mosul. In addition, Sweden is working to ensure that women are better included in peace and reconciliation processes and to support further measures to prevent gender-based violence. Sweden also points out the importance of coordination within and between the UN and the international community, not least among EU Member States, in order to ensure coordination and effective delivery of support actions. However, it is important to stress that the way forward must be an inclusive political process involving national reconciliation, reform, dialogue, respect for international law, the principles of the rule of law and human rights.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-218	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. However, I am not satisfied because there are no direct earmarked funds for the reconstruction of the Nineves Plain. The Christian ethnic groups of Syrians, Chaldeans, Mandés and Assyrians in Iraq have been marginalised because of religious and ethnic discrimination and persecution for decades. In 2014, more than 200 000 Christian residents were forced to flee the plain of Nineves and Mosul by the terrorist organisation Islamic State. They were faced with ultimatums: to convert to Islam or be killed. Some were kidnapped. Others were killed, and their property confiscated. Most Christian inhabitants fled to the Kurdish region, and even the Yazidians were subjected to the same abuse. The systematic abuse is a genocide that has been recognised by the European Parliament in a resolution of 2016. Several national parliaments have also recognised the abuse as genocide. I have personally exercised in the Swedish Parliament for recognition long before the issue became a matter for decisions in the European Parliament. Unfortunately, however, the majority of Sweden's parliamentary parties voted against recognition. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Government should recognise the genocide and work for the UN Security Council to recognise it as well. I must say that I am disappointed with the Swedish Foreign Minister in this case and with the attitude and cowardice of the government on this issue. The decision to refuse to recognise the genocide is a great betrayal of the peoples affected. Regrettably, not calling things its true name does not help the affected ethnic ethnic groups. Mr President, I would like to For Christian refugees to return home, it is important to rebuild and increase security and security in the Nineves plain. The SEK 200 million referred to by the minister do not go to affected Christian communities in the plain of Nineves. I am proud of Sweden's efforts in relation to aid in general. But this concern is confirmed by the Archbishop of northern Iraq, Nicodemus Daoud, who recently visited here in Sweden. He then confirmed to the Minister for Development that the aid does not come to Christian areas. Mr President, I would like to The reconstruction of liberated areas from the terrorist group Islamic State was the theme of a seminar organised by the Christian Democrats in the Swedish Parliament about a week ago just to draw attention to the issue. Sweden is investing SEK 25 million per year since 2015 in various UN projects through the United Nations Development Programme. It is a stabilisation fund for various support operations aimed at supporting efforts to stabilise areas liberated from the Islamic State and so on. This is a laughable small sum, for the need is very great. In relation to the need, it's a drop in the ocean. The UN, the EU and Sweden can do more for these needy fellow human beings. Without support and assistance, their only option will be to emigrate to Europe. Mr President, I would like to My question is: in what way will Sweden act through the UN Security Council and the EU and help with the reconstruction of Christian areas in the Nineves plain and enable refugees to return home?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-226	Mr President, I would like to You can be proud of what Sweden does, Robert Halef. I would like to make that absolutely clear. We are one of the biggest contributors. We are giving to the UN agencies, and we are giving core support – non-allocated support. We give to what I mentioned, the UNDP stabilisation fund, which is being used precisely to contribute to stabilisation measures in Nineve and which is also planning operations in Mosul. We have a development plan in the country of 1 billion. Sweden is one of the most generous countries. We are, of course, dependent on operating through UN agencies and other well-established bodies active in Iraq. Would we be ashamed? No, absolutely not. On the contrary, Sweden, as the Iraqis themselves point out, is one of the countries that are most active and also most generous. However, I have not mentioned the humanitarian aid that we are providing. Sweden is also making efforts for mine clearance and specific efforts that of course must also be made in order for people to be able to return. So there is nothing to be ashamed of when it comes to our efforts in Iraq. On the contrary, they are very active on the political, humanitarian and military tracks. We are doing as much as we can and, of course, we must work with other countries to ensure that it is targeted and used properly. But we are in a situation where over 20 years of war, sanctions and sectarian violence have led to difficult political and social challenges. This requires both long-term and broad engagement in Iraq. The strategy launched in 2004 focused on democratic governance, human rights, trade, industry and financial systems. The previous government decided in 2013 to phase out development aid to Iraq, but we have decided to adopt a new development strategy as of this autumn. In addition, we have all these efforts. We also have other projects with activities in Iraq within the framework of the regional Middle East and North Africa strategy and the Syria crisis strategy: Kvinna till kvinna, UNFPA's regional refugee programme and so on. So we have a five-year aid strategy that we are launching this year with a budget of SEK 1 billion. It takes a long-term holistic approach, and inclusive political processes involving minorities are crucial. Humanitarian aid is also very large: SEK 202 million in 2016 and SEK 135 million until today this year. It is about UN agencies operating in Iraq, where UNHCR receives SEK 750 million in 2017. They have a central role not only in caring for those people who are forced to flee but also in enabling return to liberated areas. Of course, Sweden cannot do everything, and I do not think that Robert Halef wants to say that either. But when it comes to you having to be ashamed, I really don't think so. We are very active on all three tracks.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-232	Mr President, I would like to I think the Secretary of State misunderstood me. I am proud of Sweden's humanitarian efforts worldwide. I said that I am ashamed that the government and parliament have not recognised the genocide of Christian and other ethnic minorities, as the European Parliament did last year. Mr President, I would like to People live in misery in refugee camps and want to return home. Reconstruction and a protected zone for Christians on the plain of Nineves create hope for a new future and are the salvation of Christendom in the country. Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of State was eager and campaigned hard to get a seat on the UN Security Council. There is a great hope in Sweden from several hundred thousand new Swedes originating in Iraq that Sweden will really stand up for their relatives via the UN Security Council and the EU. The hope is that Sweden is actively pursuing reconstruction, including on the plain of Nineves, and enabling the continued existence of Christian communities in their own homeland. The Christian territories of the Nineves plain and parts of Mosul are now liberated, and it is time to help with reconstruction with earmarked funds in this particular area that has been destroyed by the terrorist group of the Islamic State. It is time to enable refugees to return to their homelands. All the support that goes through the Baghdad Government does not arrive at these areas. Mr President, I would like to The fact that Minister for Development Isabella Lövin has visited Iraq has not helped the Christian communities and the Yazidians who are most vulnerable because of their faith. The Minister for Development has visited Baghdad and Falluja and Sunni and Shiadominated Areas but not the Christian Areas of the Nineves Plain. The most affected are Christians and Yazidians, and they are not in the city of Fallujah. A great deal of the efforts mentioned recently are directed precisely at Falluja. This confirms the lack of interest in helping Christians and other ethnic minorities who consider themselves betrayed by the Iraqi Government who have not protected them from abuse and by the UN and other international bodies that reject them in the reconstruction of their territories. Mr President, I would like to Where are the earmarked efforts for Christian communities in the plain of Nineves and for Yazidians in the Sinjar area? Should these two communities and areas not be prioritised and rebuilt in order to create hope for a new future for those affected and enable them to return to their homelands? Mr President, I would like to Let me give you what a Christian woman with three small children in a refugee camp said: We are betrayed by the West. Many foreign delegations come and go and film us without any direct help. We feel like cattle in a cage and can't take it anymore. We are abandoned and have lost everything, and our families have been divided. Please help us get back home! Mr President, I would like to People are screaming for help to return home. My questions are: In what way will the Swedish government work concretely to help Christian residents who are on the run to return to their homelands on the plain of Nineves? Will the Swedish Government, through the UN Security Council, work towards a protected zone for Christian residents in the plain of Nineves in accordance with the European Parliament's resolution decision in 2016? It is necessary and the only thing that can secure the future existence of the Christian national groups in the country.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-241	Mr President, I would like to Sweden operates bilaterally and also through the EU and the UN to promote democratic and peaceful development in Iraq. The government is engaged in continuous dialogue with representatives of the central government of Baghdad but also with the KRG for greater respect for human rights, international law and the rule of law. Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, Prime Minister Isabella Lövin and I have visited the country within a year and a half. We talk regularly with civil society representatives, the UN and the multilateral organisations in place in the country. Last year I met – and I have done so after that – the Yazidian survivor Nadia Mourad to talk about the vulnerable situation of minorities, not least women from minorities. Isabella Lövin also received Mosul's Archbishop in April. It is our firm position that lasting peace can only be ensured by the participation of Iraqi society as a whole in the political process. Our principle is that we should operate through UN agencies and other well-established organisations. Most of the aid is not earmarked, but it is core aid so that it can actually be used for those most in need. This, of course, belongs to this group, and so much of the support is for finding ways of reconstruction and allowing people to return. It contains the whole scale from mine clearance to rebuilding security. In addition, support for the security sector in Iraq is also needed. A variety of efforts are needed to ensure stability in the country. I know it is a discussion about this with protected zones, but I would also like to warn that protected zones can become death traps. It is incredibly important to know how the zones should be designed, and so far no one has been able to demonstrate in a credible way exactly how they should be designed. But it is about ensuring that there can be a peaceful development in Iraq that allows people to feel safe enough to return to the places that are their home. We also support the UN political mission in Iraq, which is working precisely on such national measures as peace-building and reconciliation. It includes support for national processes for dialogue between Sunni and Shia, Kurds, Christians, Yazidians and other groups and to promote greater respect for international humanitarian law and human rights. So we are pushing for clear action in all the international contexts. We pay particular attention to minority groups, and this is part of our political dialogue as well. As I said, we have very generous financial support for reconstruction and humanitarian aid. We also work actively to defend and protect the individual's freedom to choose religion or belief. We stand up to defend these rights, not least within the EU, where resolutions are tabled on this. We see this as very important also in the long term for Iraq in order to create an inclusive political dialogue.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-247	Mr President, I would like to Let me just make it clear to the Minister that regional self-government, a protected zone, is subject to the Baghdad government. This recognises Parliament and the Constitution. This would give Christians, including Yazidians and Turkmen in Tall Afar, a somewhat more peaceful development in these areas in which they operate. There is talk of democratic development in Iraq. We all want that, but the reality is different and the Constitution is different. The president must be Kurdish. The Prime Minister must be Shia. The President must be Sunni. It is a sectarian constitution that discriminates against the most vulnerable – the Christians and the Yazidis. They face ultimatums. They don't fit the pattern. They are discriminated against and persecuted and they need this protected zone. They need earmarked money to live and work in their own country. Mr President, I would like to Reconstruction creates hope for a new future. That is the salvation of Christendom in Iraq. I have personally visited northern Iraq and met many refugees and read their stories that still hurt to remember. It is painful to remember that fellow humans have had to go through this entire journey. But they have a strong longing and want to return to their homelands. The debate today is about the future existence of Christian communities in Iraq. My question is this: could the Foreign Minister consider supporting a directly earmarked investment in this particular area in order to create stability, security, security and sustainable development precisely for the Christians in the Nineveh region?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-251	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the description of how Daish commits gross, systematic and widespread violations of human rights and international humanitarian aid. I myself have listened to many of those who are affected, and it is quite right, as Robert Halef says, that it is important that we do not forget this suffering. Of course, we condemn Daish and these brutal abuses. We are also clear that impunity is not an option for these crimes. Together with the EU, we encourage Iraq to join the ICC, the International Criminal Court. If they do so, the court will have the opportunity to investigate data on genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes in order to put them right. It is also about ensuring that the entire internal process in Iraq can become an inclusive political process. We rarely work with earmarked support. We don't think you should do that. We believe that the UN agencies should be given so that they can assess the main needs. And we believe that the need for protection of Christians on the plain of Nineves, for example, belongs there. This is also the focus on a large part of the work. It must continue to be so. The rest is a political process. There we are talking directly with the central government in Baghdad and with the KRG to press for the future of Iraq, an inclusive political process that ends the repression and persecution of, for example, Christians; but also other minority groups suffer in Iraq. I think we have indicated very strongly against it, and we will continue to show strongly against it. We must also support Iraq's own process of finding solutions that deal with how to make decisions and how to organise one's society. We will continue to contribute there.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-257	Mr President, I would like to Robert Hannah has asked me if the preparation of the question of recognising the genocide is still ongoing within the Government Office. He has asked whether it is my position that, for reasons of principle, the government should not take a position on the mass assaults in the Ottoman Empire, and how it relates to Stefan Lövven's promise during the 2014 election campaign to acknowledge the genocide. Robert Hannah has also asked if, for reasons of principle, the government should not take a position on the mass assaults, I can explain the reasons of principle. Undoubtedly, widespread abuse was committed against the Armenian community and other minorities during World War I in the decaying Ottoman Empire. The accounts of what happened are terrible. In 2015, the Government commissioned the Stockholm Center for International Law and Justice to highlight relevant legal, historical and other aspects of attitudes and names in connection with historical mass assaults on a principled and general level. As I have described in more detail in connection with previous interpellation debates in this House, the report shows how difficult and diverse these issues are. The report also discusses a wide range of approaches. The report also makes a clear distinction between approaches to contemporary and historical mass abuse. The report has been submitted to the government and no further work on the issue is currently under way. The Government agrees with the general view in the report on the importance of considering how a Swedish action might affect the parties in the conflict-relief and reconciliation direction. According to the report, government statements establishing historical facts are not entirely unproblematic. They can be perceived as normative for research and violate the academic principle of critical thinking. In the case of mass assaults in the decaying Ottoman Empire, the most important thing is that those concerned jointly analyse and arrive at an approach to the abuse. The report shows how important it is to learn from history in order to prevent the repetition of mass abuse in our time. This is a question of respect for international law and human rights that is fundamental in Swedish foreign policy.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-262	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that the Foreign Minister concludes with a sentence about learning from history. We have not learned from history. Turks and Kurds in the Ottoman Empire systematically and daily raped Assyrian, Armenian, pontical-Greek women and girls during the genocide. It was part of the genocide. First they were raped; then they were forced on death marches in the Syrian desert. I would like to quote an eyewitness, in English: It was a very common thing for them to rape our girls in our presence. Very often they violeted eight ‐ or ten-year-old girls so that they were impossible to walk and were shot instead. Girls were raped, and after they had been raped, they could not get through the Syrian desert. Then you shot and killed the girls. Pregnant women were impaled. This was a genocide that systematically exploited and murdered the Christian minorities when the kingdom was falling, in order to create a Turkish national state. The Turkish State has made it its national identity to deny this genocide. You do not seem to realise that, Mrs Wallström. The genocide is alive. I cannot return to the homeland of my relatives because the genocide has not been recognised, because we have no rights there. Those villages are occupied by the Turkish state. Do you think we've been compensated for the fact that those villages are no longer ours? Do you think there's any possibility for me to go there and lay down a stone to remember all these people who have passed away? There is no such possibility. Turkish intellectuals who realize this has happened are being prosecuted. Talks about genocide are a crime under Turkish law. I have a principle that I think this government should work on. If the perpetrators state denies what it has done, a genocide, it is up to other countries to stand up and point out that it has happened. The country does not take its own responsibility. It forbids talks about the genocide and has not learned from it now, in the present. Now girls are sold at the slave market in Mosul. In particular, Yazidian girls, but perhaps also Christians, who may be descendants of these persons, are sold in the slave market in Mosul, in the same way as before. No, we haven't learned from history. And the Social Democrats have certainly not learned from history. I was happy when Prime Minister candidate Stefan Löfven, on the Assyrian New Year in Södertälje before 2,000 people, said: I will acknowledge the genocide if I become Prime Minister. I was very happy. I thought that Parliament had failed earlier. But you're letting down even more. You are promising things that you can do, but you are not doing it because you think it is more important to frustrate Erdo. It is clear that the Swedish Government's view of the issue changed overnight when the migration situation worsened in Europe and the EU needed to sign an agreement. I do not understand why the Turkish regime must be appeased at this stage. For the last three years, the Czech Republic has recognised the genocide. Brazil, Belgium and Austria have recognised in recent years. Chile, Holland, Luxembourg, Germany and Poland acknowledged last year. Slovakia has recently confessed. Switzerland, Uruguay and even the European Parliament have recognised it in different ways. One must therefore ask why it is not being done here. Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström points out that this is a sensitive political issue. I would like to quote Professor Ove Bring's comment on this: It is a political issue in Turkey, so why should it not be a political issue in other countries? ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to The only thing I want to know, the only thing I want answers from the Foreign Minister, is: is the Socialist-led government going to recognise this genocide during this term of office, yes or no?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-272	Mr President, I would like to Adolf Hitler is said to have said: Who remembers the Armenians? The Armenian people had suffered genocide during World War I, in what is today Turkey and was then the Ottoman Empire. But no one remembered the Armenians. No one was involved in really creating justice afterwards and telling us about it, and a lot of the victims were dead. What Hitler was referring to was that he intended to do the same, as he did to the Jews, although the Holocaust was more industrial with death factories and other things. The Armenians were stabbed with lances and sabers and pushed into the Euphrates and Tigris, where they drowned. Mr President, I would like to There is something about the Armenian genocide that is different from others. It was a genocide where an estimated 1 million people were killed. It wasn't just Armenians; it was Assyrians, Syrians, Pontic Greeks, and it was Christian. They were proclaimed jihad against them, and Kurdish clans and the Turkish Ottoman military committed this genocide. But what distinguishes the Armenian genocide from many other genocides is that denial is maintained by a state, Turkey. It is a large state with 75 million inhabitants. The whole diplomatic apparatus, newspapers, schools, official society, politicians, establishment, courts– everything is mobilized as if the most central to the regime's existence is the maintenance of the denial of the Armenian genocide. Madam President, I would like Tonight is a film premiere in Sweden. It is shown in a cinema in Stockholm and is called The Promise. It's a film about the Armenian genocide. I have had the opportunity to go to that premiere, and it will be very interesting. The film has been shown at some film festivals. It's about a girl and a guy who gets together during the first world war. One in the couple is Armenian, and the film depicts the genocide. Before the film even began to appear, tens of thousands of reviews had come in on various film sites where you could rate the film. Many voted in favour of this being the worst film ever made. It got the worst grades before it had even been shown. No one had seen it. It was just one example of the ongoing campaigns to deny the genocide. The Swedish Parliament has recognised this genocide. Unfortunately, the former government – the alliance government – did not do so, which I regret. The current government does not either. Then the important question is what expressions are used. I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is constantly using the term'mass abuse' in his reply. Then the question is to Mrs Wallström: Was it a genocide suffered by the Armenians, or was it something else? What term does the Minister of Foreign Affairs use for what has actually happened and on which researchers are fairly agreed has happened?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-282	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that you do not have to teach me about abuse and that we have not learned from history. I served for more than two years as a special representative of the Secretary-General for sexual violence in war and conflict, so I can give eyewitness accounts of it. So I don't need to be taught. Nor do I need to be taught political responsibility. The previous government took the same approach. But we agree that accounts of what happened in the disintegrating Ottoman Empire are terrible. Both earlier reports from the Swedish Embassy in Constantinople and contemporary research show an incredible number of people who were murdered, deported or forced to flee their homes. A significant part of the Christian population of the Ottoman Empire was killed. It is important that we remember and learn from the dark chapters. I believe that these lessons have laid the foundations for the importance that we now attach to respect for international law and human rights in our foreign policy. It's definitely recorded. Mass abuse has enormous consequences, both immediate and long-term, and we must try to understand them in depth. The question of how a government applies a convention – the Genocide Convention – and how a government should react to and name mass abuses that have taken place in the past include several, not infrequently complex, international law, constitutional, criminal law and political aspects. That is why very few governments – a single one – have dealt with this issue at all. That's the truth. Parliaments have been better able to deal with this issue, but governments generally do not. The principled approach to mass abuse is that we wanted the Stockholm Centre for International Law and Justice on a principled and general level to show how relevant legal, historical and other aspects of attitudes and names related to historical mass abuse could be used. The report is written by Professor Pål Wrange, and it shows how difficult and multifaceted these issues are. A variety of approaches are also discussed. For example, it is pointed out that the genocide convention does not apply retroactively. When we discuss this concept, it is as if we lack appropriate words to capture the horror that has taken place. Then we do not think it is good enough with the concepts of mass assault and crimes against humanity. We want words that better capture these phenomena. Unfortunately, the Convention is not always useful in this context. It is designed in a very special way. But the report contains a public-law review. Pål Wrange notes that most historical mass assaults have not been the subject of any action by states which have not been involved in the mass assaults. When they have caused reactions, it has been from a small number of states, and it is not governments but parliaments that have made the statements. The Riksdag has done so in the past, and the previous government shared that view. We would prefer the parties themselves to take responsibility for their history.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-289	Madam President, I would like The Foreign Minister talks a lot about lessons. Has the Turkish State learned from what has been done in its history? Absolutely not. Even the Secretary of State can't argue that. The way in which the Kurdish minority, journalists and LGBT people are treated and the way in which democracy is eroded is a direct consequence of not having had a process in which they have been democratized and respected their citizens and minorities. No, we haven't learned the story. To call it something other than genocide is to take a stand on the part of the government. Mass assault is not good enough, as the Minister says. There is no lack of words; there is a word, and it is genocide. I would like to quote a courageous Social Democrat, unlike the present government. Hjalmar Branting has spoken out on the Armenian genocide. A speech by Branting the day before at an opinion meeting on Norra Bantorget in Stockholm against the Armenian genocide was published in the newspaper Social Democratic of March 28, 1917. Here's what the prime minister-to-be says: The documents state clearly that this is not an abuse of subjection, but an organised and systematic genocide, worse than we have ever seen in Europe. It has been a matter of the whole population of great territory, of massacre, of driving the survivors in the wilderness, hoping that they will not endure without their bones to crumble in the desert sand. This genocide stands among all the horrors of war regarding the number of victims and the systematic ferocity of its execution unparalleled. When we read about it, it has iced our hearts, really seriously iced our hearts. This is what the Social Democrats thought when the genocide was still going on. Now, 100 years later, they choose to call it mass assault and claim that there are not enough words. Hjalmar Branting talked about systematic genocide, and that is what we want it to be called, because that is what has happened. I was very surprised when the Foreign Minister said that there is no political possibility of calling it genocide. There is, but just as Ove Bring – Sweden's leading professor of international law – has said this is a political issue in Sweden because it is a political issue in Turkey. Those Swedes who think this question is very important deserve an answer from the Social Democrats. The only question I ask and to which I call on the Foreign Minister to answer – I will return to this House until I have received an answer to the question – is: Will the Socialist Government recognise the genocide during this term of office, yes or no?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-297	Madam President, I would like It is a little strange that in 2017 we in a Parliament are discussing what happened 100 years ago. The reason for this is not that it is we who want recognition that are trying to politicise this issue, but the problem is that Turkey has deliberately chosen to politicise the issue of genocide. Each country has to settle its past and process it. We in Sweden have been doing this for a long time. We also have things in our past to settle with and that can be processed more. It is about how we have treated minorities and other things. Every country has to do it. In Finland, a process is now under way, which looks at what actually happened during the Finnish Civil War 100 years ago. You start challenging the official description and so on. Similarly, there is a new generation of historians in Israel who work in various ways on what happened in 1948 and beyond. Every country must do this. The problem in Turkey is that the lid has been completely put on. If the word genocide is used in relation to the Armenians in Turkey, they are brought to justice. You can go to jail or get a ticket for it. Nobel laureate Orhan Pamuk was driven more or less into exile for this. That is why it is extremely important that a country such as Sweden, which is a democracy and protects human rights, does not falter when it comes to what actually happened. The Foreign Minister tells us that there were unimaginable numbers, that there were mass assaults and so on. But it was a genocide that took place, and I think we should admit that.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-302	Madam President, I would like The report that we ordered and which is available in the Government Office presents a general understanding of the importance of considerations as to how a Swedish action might affect the parties in a conflict in a conflict-relief and reconciliation direction. Will it be easier to discuss this and deal with the effects? According to the report, government statements establishing historical facts are not entirely unproblematic, both because they are normative for research and because they run counter to the academic principle of critical thinking. Are governments supposed to make these kind of statements? Your own government did not do it, and I do not believe that you have promised to do it if you come to power again. There are, of course, reasons for that. The convention we have today to deal with genocide is not retroactive. It has also proved difficult to apply even in ongoing situations of genocide, mass assault or crimes against humanity. But what really matters is what we do and how we contribute to promoting understanding, debate and dialogue on these events in Turkey and between Turkey and Armenia. We have bilateral reform cooperation that actually supports open research and debate in order to achieve such development. For example, we support the Hrant Dink Foundation and their work on the establishment of the first Armenian Institute in Turkey. These are the things that we think are the way forward. This has remained a matter of contention to our day. 100 years after that, it's a matter of contention. A more common view of what actually happened could contribute to reconciliation and ultimately also to a more forward-looking work. I believe that you are trying to make this a political issue, but we think that this issue should be dealt with responsibly and in such a way as to promote sustainable development in the region. Several of the mechanisms that came to the protection of human rights and developed in the 20th century emerged precisely from the experience of previous mass assaults, including those that occurred in the decaying Ottoman Empire. Knowledge of what has happened still helps. It is not the same as not condemning what is happening in Turkey. To claim such a thing is rude. We are working in the EU and in various ways also bilaterally in advocating policy change as it develops in Turkey. Then this debate must continue.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-307	Madam President, I would like The Foreign Minister says that what matters is what we do and what results we achieve. If you look at Turkey, you can see what the result is. The result is that the Kurdish minority is severely oppressed and journalists are oppressed. Orhan Pamuk is a typical example of such a person. The answer is actually that we have done everything wrong so far. Does the Foreign Minister think that talks on reconciliation will lead anywhere as long as it is illegal to come to Turkey and say that this genocide has taken place? As long as survivors, survivors and relatives cannot return to their villages and say that this has happened, this will be alive. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is asking himself whether it is governments that should acknowledge these events. Yes, I think so in two types of cases. The first is when the perp state denies it all. Then I think the government has a responsibility to step forward and take the fight for the right. The second is when there is an ongoing genocide. Then there is a responsibility for all governments in the world to work for it to be stopped. If you don't admit it, you're not going anywhere. Yes, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I believe that the government's responsibility at this point is to take the politically tough decision to take the fight with Erdo中an and recognise the genocide, and to make sure that they do the right thing, that is to say that the rights of minorities in Turkey are recognised today, that the Kurdish population is not oppressed and that Armenians, Assyrians/Syrians and other groups who were exposed can return to their homelands and perhaps even get some compensation for everything that has happened. I will come back in debate with the Foreign Minister in this House to get an answer if she does not give it here and now: will this government recognise the genocide during this term of office, yes or no? It is a very simple question to which I demand a simple answer.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-312	Madam President, I would like This debate will continue. I look forward to discussing how we can both learn from history and influence today's political developments in Turkey as well. I note that I have not received any answers either about what you have done in the past or what you intend to do in the future in an alliance government. I thank you for today's debate and look forward to further discussion.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-314	Madam President, I would like Robert Hannah has asked me how I have tried to influence or exert pressure on the central government of Baghdad and on the self-government of the KRG to ensure that the wordings on human rights contained in the Constitution of Iraq and in the equivalent of the KRG also become reality in practice. He asks me how I have ensured that the Swedish support given to the Kurdish peshmergan and to the central government is not being used against the already vulnerable minorities. Robert Hannah also asks whether I and the government are asking the KRG to ensure that people belonging to the Assyrian minority get back land occupied by Kurdish clan leaders and whether I and the government are asking the KRG to ensure that the Assyrian minority in the Nahla region gets back its land occupied by the KRG president's family. Over 20 years of war, sanctions and sectarian violence in Iraq have led to difficult social and political challenges that require long-term and broad engagement in Iraq. The situation of religious and ethnic minorities, as Robert Hannah describes, is worrying. The ongoing armed conflict against Daish has hit these groups particularly hard. They are overrepresented among those forced to flee their homes. With the military successes against Daish, it is now of great importance that Iraq implements inclusive political and economic reforms to ensure stabilisation, long-term reconstruction and national reconciliation. The international community has a responsibility to assist Iraq in this and to emphasise the importance of respecting and upholding international law, including international humanitarian law and human rights. Sweden regularly addresses this with both the central government in Baghdad and with the Kurdistan regional government, even at the highest level. This was done most recently in March when the Minister for International Development Cooperation and Climate Cooperation, Isabella Lövin, visited the country. Sweden's five-year development strategy for Iraq, launched in the second half of 2017, focuses on peace and state building and will thereby promote inclusive processes. Within the EU, Sweden is actively promoting increased engagement in support of Iraq. As a result of this work, the EEAS has developed civilian support options, including support for the security sector in Iraq. Sweden supports the establishment by the EU of an evaluation team in the field of security sector reform within the Common Security and Defence Policy. Decisions on increased EU support in this area are expected at the beginning of the summer. Sweden also works at the UN for a democratic and stable Iraq, where all groups in society are represented. That, of course, is also a priority during the Swedish Security Council membership. We are working in the Security Council to support the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNami) and its efforts to promote national reconciliation and peace-building processes. This includes support for national processes for dialogue between the Sunni and Shia population, Kurds, Yazidians and other groups. The political process is crucial to ensuring the return, legal governance and protection of Christians and other minorities in the country. Peaceful coexistence and respect for property and land ownership are necessary. Sweden also contributes to enabling return to liberated areas through UNDP's stabilisation fund (FFIS), to which SEK 125 million has been channelled so far. Sweden does not tolerate abuse in the fight against Daish, and Sweden therefore, together with the EU, calls on Iraq to join the International Criminal Court (ICC). The Government stresses the importance of implementing the Mosuloffensive and other operations in accordance with international humanitarian law and of protecting the civilian population. The Swedish military training grant within the global coalition has as one of its tasks to train the local Iraqi defence forces in international humanitarian law. The government has consistently stressed that data on human rights violations and international humanitarian law must be investigated and perpetrators brought to justice. Assaults are unacceptable regardless of where and by whom they are committed. The fight against terrorism must respect international law, including humanitarian law and human rights. This is something that Sweden repeatedly points out in the UN Security Council and other international bodies.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-321	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that I believe that the Swedish effort in Iraq is honourable and incredibly important for peace and stability in the Middle East and especially in Iraq. It makes me proud as a Swede that we are actually doing this, so it is not at all a question of criticising it. However, I obviously agree with what Robert Halef said earlier: that efforts must ensure that minorities have a real and honest chance of remaining and continuing. I assume that the Foreign Minister is doing his best to point out that the vulnerability of minorities is extremely high and that it is these groups that need priority in the reconstruction of Iraq. I am broadly satisfied with the Foreign Minister's answer to that question, although we do not share views on self-defense and forces and such things. But in general, the Swedish effort is incredibly honorable. For me, it is extremely important that all communities in Iraq have a chance and an opportunity to stay. Therefore, in this interpellation I have very much stressed their ability to actually do so. It is only on one point that I do not receive an answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. That's why I want to lift it especially. But that does not mean that I do not have opinions on the other issues. I raised the issue of Assyrian villages in the Kurdish region. I am one of the people who absolutely defend the Kurdish region. The development of democracy there has been good historically, and it is one of the stronger forces in the Middle East. But there are also problems, and this must be emphasised and highlighted as a government. In Correspondents, a documentary was shown a few months ago on the illegal occupation of Assyrian villages in the Kurdish region. Villages are taken by clan leaders, in this case Massoud Barzani's relative. I have not heard any statements from the government at all criticising such occupations. I would like to emphasise that this is not something I myself have made up or that someone else has made up. I would like to mention some of the organisations that raise this issue. Amnesty International has reports on this issue. The World Council of Churches has a report on the issue. The International Crisis Group also has reports of occupations of Assyrian villages in the Kurdish region. Human Rights Watch has also made reports on this. The latest case in Nahla is about Massoud Barzani's cousin and the clan he belongs to. They have simply entered the village and taken land. When the landowners, the Assyrian minority in the area, have tried to demonstrate and try to get their land back, they have not been helped at all. The Kurdish peshmergan has not gone in there to ensure that the land is there, and Massoud Barzani has not stated that they need to leave the land.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-328	Madam President, I would like I believe that we in the Western world believe that the Middle East is some kind of melting pot of different cultures and religions. It is a great diversity and a whole mosaic of different cultures. But the truth is that in that region it is increasingly becoming a variety of very homogeneous enclaves. Virtually all the Jews have moved to Israel. Most Christians who survived purges have emigrated to the Western world. Extremists in the two main bays of Islam commit enormous assaults on civilians, Sunni Muslims and Shia Muslims, and there are so many weapons in circulation that the killings just continue. It seems to have its own dynamics somehow. Baghdad is a city where violence decreased seven eight years ago. It was partly the result of American armament, but it was also the result of the fact that ethnic cleansing was not possible. The city was virtually cleared all the way down to the stairway level. This development is extremely tragic and terrible. There are some places that still have a diversity. Lebanon is one such place and also the Kurdistan region in northern Iraq. That is why it is very important for minorities to be protected. My view, Madam President, is that Sweden should have as good relations as possible with the Kurdish Government in Erbil, because it also gives us the opportunity to influence. We have large diaspora groups in Sweden who in different ways think that these issues are very important – how the development progresses and so on. Of course, we need to use our interfaces with Kurdish self-government to influence. I really hope the government does. It is also in the interests of Barzani and the other leaders to do so, as they will now proceed to the referendum on independence that they intend to hold. Madam President, I would like I would like to say something in connection with this that is very important for the Swedish part, not least in view of our activities in the area, where we participate in the coalition to knock out IS. We need a broad political agenda for what happens after Isis, after Daish. It's about reconstruction and other things. Sweden does a lot of things. I believe that in various ways we can do more to enable people to return. Then there is another part of this. Iraq's military structure means that more and more military capabilities have been transferred to various militia groups, called al-Shaabi al-Shaabi, which is very close to Iran. Many of these groups are in practice part of the Iranian revolution. It is part of Iran's ideological sectarian project to dominate Iraq, similar to Hizbollah in Lebanon. This will be an enormous challenge in the future. When IS is driven out of Mosul and Raqqa, it will end up standing against the Peshmerga troops in the north. There is a risk of a new dimension to this conflict. The question is how the government sees it and that our military resources go to train, for example, units or units that then join the various militia groups that are not essentially loyal to Baghdad but to Tehran.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-334	Madam President, I would like I may not seem to appreciate the debate with Robert and Fredrik, but I do. I always find it just as interesting, because you are so knowledgeable and committed. In fact, on this issue we have a great deal of consensus. I have no objection but may add to what Fredrik says that the background statement is the basis for the assessment that there is a risk that both Syria and Iraq will be divided into smaller states and areas of interest. Anything can happen in the future if we do not look forward to this development, so it is important to step forward carefully and think long-term about what various efforts can bring. In addition, we feel the same way about the vulnerability of minorities. The reports you're holding up, Robert, we need to include ourselves in our dialogue with the KRG and with Iraq. They should be part of the critical discussion that we have with the KRG and with the central government about minorities as well as what came out in the Correspondents. I think it has provided the basis and fuel for the debate that we need to have. I agree with most of what you have said. It's important how we act. It feels good that we can continue to work on all three parallel tracks that we talked about earlier in the Iraq Interpellation: a political, a humanitarian and a military track. But above all, a long-term plan is needed. This is such a central discussion about the vulnerability of minorities, so we must have it with us. We must also be able to base it on, among other things, these reports. I have no other view than that this is important and must be part of our dialogue. The second, bigger issue is the political development that we have seen. As Fredrik said, it is not at all a melting pot, but now it also polarises different Muslim groups and other minority groups. This does not bode well and will be an extraordinary challenge for those of us who want to promote inclusive societies and peaceful development, not least in Iraq.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-340	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for a good answer! I share the Foreign Minister's view that political, humanitarian and military work is necessary. If we succeed in these three tracks, the minorities are the ones who gain most from it, that's it. I believe that there are huge opportunities for the Swedish Government to influence both the Iraqi Government and the Kurdish regional government in the right direction. When I was last in the Kurdish Parliament in Erbil, I spoke Swedish to the Vice-President, because he has been a political refugee here in Sweden, in Stockholm. And as I walk around the cafes in Erbil, one of these can be called Kafé Eskilstuna. In my view, we are probably among the most powerful influence workers as a state against another state. We can and need to make a big difference there, because there are certain things that are not working today, and that is mainly affecting the minorities in Iraq, where a lot of sectarian laws are now being introduced which restrict, for example, freedom of religion and ban alcohol, which is largely consumed by minorities. I would like to point out that one of the things that absolutely must be done within the KRG is to combat the corruption that is there. For example, I can tell you that I had a taxi driver with me for a whole week the last time I was in Iraq. When we finished the week, I asked him if he had any more work going on. Then he said: No, I actually work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I said, "What, you worked for me for a whole week?" He replied: But I go in once a month and get half the salary, and my boss takes the other half. That's about the way it works. It's extremely corrupt. It also means that the judicial system does not work. It must be known that the Assyrian people also have their areas of origin in the Kurdish region. When they have papers of ownership of land occupied by Massoud Barzani own cousin and go to courts, they are dismissed by the courts, even though they have the evidence. Political work must be done to ensure that politicians take seriously that land belonging to minorities must not be confiscated. But you also have to work towards a legal system that works so that there are courts that listen and choose the right way when you are subjected to intervention. One of the biggest problems in the Middle East is precisely the clan mentality and the clan communities that limit the possibilities for individuals to assert their own rights. It is very important that we work politically and humanitarianly to build up these bodies. It sounds very good that the Foreign Minister intends to work on these issues, and I hope that this is actually done. Thank you for the debate. I don't want to continue it. I want to finish this.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-349	Madam President, I would like The situation described in the Kurdistan region of northern Iraq is the result of not having a coordinated, functioning rule of law, but different, overlapping justice systems, quite simply. The President of the region is not necessarily able to control everything that happens at the local level. It is an important process that must be pursued. It would, of course, be easier to achieve formal independence from Iraq, because as long as the conflicts between Erbil and Baghdad continue, I believe that this will also make democratisation more difficult in northern Iraq. Madam President, I would like In my first speech, I raised the problem of the militia groups that are very close to Iran. There are various armed militia groups, known as al-Shaabi al-Shaabi, which in practice are partly different sectarian groupings working for a more fundamentalist variant of Shiaislam, partly from the Iraqi army which has been transferred, so to speak, to these militias. The problem is that the militias can commit horrendous abuse of Sunni Muslims when fighting Daish and against Kurds in the future as well. I believe that we will have more debates on this issue in the future because, as the structure now stands within Iraq's military units, reconstruction of Iraq will be impossible after Daish has been driven out of Mosul. It will be almost impossible to rebuild Iraq if this deep sectarianism continues from Baghdad.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-353	Madam President, I would like One of the two issues that remains to be commented on has to do with corruption, because it is endemic. It is an incredibly important issue which we also always mention in our contacts. Of course, we want to support reforms that address corruption, ranging from everyday corruption to corruption at the highest level, where there can be very large amounts of money involved in oil transactions and other matters. This is, of course, something that we are very attentive to and which is part of our dialogue, which points out how important reforms are to tackle corruption. Otherwise, there will be no investment and no long-term stable economic development. The second issue concerns the security sector reform which the EU in particular is interested in contributing. Then you have to pay close attention to these kinds of phenomena. It must be planned in such a way as to build the possibility of a country being inclusive with an inclusive political system. Many of these phenomena have to be tackled as early as possible in Iraq and really suppressed so that it will not go completely wrong. It is a major task for the UN to get Iraq on track in the future. I have taken on board your comments, and I appreciate the commitment. Sweden will continue to influence in the right direction with the great confidence and influence that our country has. We need to use our aid and other development grants properly, as with our cooperation with both the European Union and the United Nations. We must insist on inclusive processes, combat corruption and pay attention to sectarianism – which is indeed a growing problem. Thank you for the debate. I've appreciated it.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-357	Madam President, I would like Gunilla Nordgren has asked me whether I am prepared to take the appropriate measures to remedy the distorted competitive situation as soon as possible, and if so, what measures I and the government intend to take. I share Gunilla Nordgrens's view that it is unfortunate that Swedish biogas production is affected in the way we see it today. The situation is a direct consequence of countries choosing both different levels of aid and different types of support schemes. Immediately when we learned about the development of Swedish biogas production, the Government Office began an analysis of the situation and underlying legal conditions. That work is complex and still ongoing. The current problem arises partly because Sweden has a green-gas tax law principle, which means that biogas that is fed into a place in the natural gas network can be collected as biogas far from there, and partly because the aid is given on the user side in the form of tax exemptions. Both systems have been important for the increased demand we have seen for a long time in Sweden. The problem is also complicated by the fact that Denmark has generally chosen to support biogas more than Sweden. However, I note that the Danish aid has been approved by the European Union. Of course, we are continuing the analysis work that has begun, and this includes analysing the conditions for possible measures.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-362	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I note that the Minister agrees with me in his answer to my question that the situation of Swedish biogas production is vulnerable, unfortunate and worrying. So far, so good. Now the question is what the Minister and the Government are prepared to do about the situation. Biogas is so much more than fuel. Biogas production is one of the pillars of a sustainable society in a circular economy. With our own biogas production, we use our own assets, which are an important part of our efforts to achieve the goals of fossil freedom and reduced greenhouse gas emissions. There is a great potential to significantly increase biogas production. Swedish biogas production provides secure access to flexible and secure energy. It also generates digestible residues that contain valuable phosphorus. Biofertilisation can also be used for organic farming today. There are therefore many added values. The question is whether the government is prepared to discuss with Denmark common solutions for equal competition. It can be difficult to negotiate with Denmark. If this does not work, is the government prepared to take its own initiative? The industry does not ask for a surprising long-term perspective. Sweden has invested in biogas because it solves many of the environmental problems. Waste and residues are valuable resources. When the cycle is closed, the climate impact is reduced. For Swedish environmental policy to be effective, it must contribute to achieving several environmental objectives. Here biogas is an important factor. What I'm saying is circular economy in practice. I think we are in complete agreement there. Madam President, I would like A consistent political priority is therefore necessary. Biogas for road transport has been a priority for 20 years. Tax exemption is and has long been an important instrument for stimulating biogas use. However, since imported gas also receives tax relief, and in Denmark's case also receives strong production support, the market price develops below the production cost of biogas in Sweden. This leads to losses and closures, and future investments are put in mothbags. I began by saying that biogas is more than fuel. If more cars, not least trucks and agricultural vehicles, were driven on vehicle gas, we would increase our self-supply of fuel, which is desirable for many reasons – not least in the event of a possible crisis in which Sweden could be prevented from importing fuel – and it would provide fertilisers. The Minister replied that the Danish aid was authorised by the EU. I've read that too. Such support would also work in Sweden. In Denmark production is subsidised and in Sweden the consumer level is subsidised. In Germany and the Netherlands, subsidies are also granted at the level of production. Does the Minister want Sweden to produce biogas? I think so. If the answer is yes, what do the Minister and Government do to make conditions of competition more equal than today? When can we expect a proposal for measures to correct the distortions of competition that exist today?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-372	Madam President, I would like Thank you, too, for the commitment of the honourable Member. I believe that Gunilla Nordgren makes a perfectly correct assessment that we agree in Sweden on the value and importance of long-termness and conditions for increased production. The honourable Member asked two questions: whether we are prepared to engage in dialogue with Denmark and whether we are prepared to see in dialogue with the industry what conditions there are to reverse this. The answer to both questions is yes. We have an ongoing discussion with the industry. Obviously, we also intend to engage in dialogue with our neighbouring country, Denmark. I am pretty sure that solutions can be found in the long term. What's a little more precarious is the short-term. As Gunilla Nordgren says, both Denmark and a number of other European countries have different systems. We should remember that it took them two years to get them approved in the European Union. Unfortunately, this kind of quickfix does not exist with regard to support schemes. Of course, if there were, we would have been able to remedy this quickly. We are now looking at what can be done in the short term within the legal framework of Sweden and the European Union. Then we look at what can be done in the long term. The situation is, of course, not satisfactory. The whole point of working together in the European Union with a single market is that there are common rules and competitively neutral support systems. In this case, it is quite clear that Danish gas has advantages because it can benefit from the support schemes of both countries. The short answer to the question – a little unusual in interpellation debates – is yes.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-377	Madam President, I would like It is good when we can have the same views and work towards the same goal. Denmark has been approved for this, as it has been informed. Then you can hope it won't take two years. The question is whether, in the meantime, we can subsidise investments in any other way so that they are not put in a grind bag. I have seen several examples in Skåne, where there is a lot of material to make biogas from, where producers are uncertain. A large plant is sold to Finland, and a large plant is laid in a moth bag. In Stockholm, the work has started a little more. There are things that are not good. It is also a question of security of supply. We talk about this a lot. I'm on the Environment and Agriculture Committee working on the Food Strategy. Biogas is included because it is not only food and water, but also transport. If Sweden is suspended, we may not have access to electricity, energy and so on. But then we can drive our agricultural machines. We can drive food, for example from Skåne to Stockholm, with biogas. So we are becoming more self-sufficient, and I think that is another important thing when it comes to livelihoods that we should try to bring with us in these times. The food strategy therefore talks not only about food but also about a system that allows us to manage if we get an import ban by having our own energy to produce both food – and then the agricultural machinery must run on biogas – and transport food if trains and such things cannot go. This is very good. I just hope you can try hard on this. As Denmark has got it approved and the Netherlands and Germany have the same system, it should be possible to get it through a little faster. I hope so.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-382	Madam President, I would like Let's see what conditions and what room for manoeuvre we have. I think dialogue with the industry is important. I also think it is important that, once we do something, we also know that it lasts. I think we all agree on that. I basically share the whole view of this biogas thing. I have even been privileged myself during the two-and-a-half years that I have been Minister of Energy to inaugurate a number of facilities, always with confidence in the future and joy. It is both climate adaptation and greening. It also leads to jobs and growth locally, and this should not be underestimated in this context. Yes, we are going through this, yes, we are going to have dialogue with Denmark and yes, we are looking at the legal conditions because this situation is not satisfactory. As the honourable Member knows, it came suddenly after this approval. I am pleased that we can have quite a consensus on this type of energy too. We have it from before in the energy settlement. It is gratifying that we can have it in this case too, because I think it is a strength for our country once we need to take action that there is a great deal of consensus in Parliament.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-386	Madam President, I would like That sounds good, and it's good that we can agree. There are many things on which we do not agree, so it is good that we can agree. It is also to be hoped that you will keep the opposition informed of what is happening. We – at least I – also have contact with the industry in different ways. Since we have the same vision, it is good if we can also keep each other up to date, or at least that the government keeps us up to date.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-388	Madam President, I would like I can say without any frills that we would be happy to do so. I believe, as I said, that we basically agree. I have tried to work with other energy issues towards the parties with which we have the energy deal. I am trying to ensure that we have common information, because it will facilitate later in common. So the answer to that question is that when we have new information, we shall – unless it is covered by business secrets or confidentiality – ensure that the opposition parties also have it.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-390	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me if the government intends to proceed with the proposal of the Safety Investigation and when this could happen. The safety investigation submitted the report "Enhanced security for threatened and persecuted persons" on 30 June 2015. The report has been referred and the period of referral expired on 1 December 2015. The referral bodies were generally in favour of the investigation's considerations and proposals, but felt, among other things, that some elements needed to be further worked out. The government considers it important that the protection of threatened and persecuted persons be strengthened and therefore intends to continue working on the proposals contained in the report.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-392	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which does not indicate much commitment to the question, I think. In spring 2014, the Swedish Parliament adopted the alliance government's proposal in bill 2013/ 14:178 Enhanced protection of personal data for threatened and persecuted persons. This means that the Swedish Tax Agency's ability to request assistance from the Social Welfare Board in matters of retention and confidentiality is highlighted in the legal texts and that the confidentiality of personal data in matters of retention is strengthened. In the bill, the Alliance government also presented its view on the direction of further work to create stronger protection for the personal data of victims of violence. Several problems and shortcomings need to be addressed further. The threat and risk assessment carried out today needs to be developed, and the use of different protection measures needs to be coordinated. The rules also need to be made more consistent from a protection perspective. The Alliance Government considered that there was reason to consider how these shortcomings should be addressed in order to provide better protection for threatened and persecuted persons and that the objective should be to create coherent and consistent regulation in this area. The Government also announced its intention to carry out a thorough review of these issues, including issues related to the use of fictitious personal data and issues related to protected categories of persons. The issue of protected personal data is an important part of the work to strengthen the protection of persons exposed to threats or persecution. The Alliance government also took several initiatives to strengthen the protection of personal data of threatened and persecuted persons. This means, for example, that a person can get new identity information, such as a new name and a new personal identity number. The Alliance government also decided, as it saw that more needs to be done on this issue, to allow a special investigator to undertake a comprehensive review of the legislation and to propose measures to strengthen the protection of personal data of threatened and persecuted persons. That is precisely what was mentioned in the reply from the Minister for Finance. An investigation was therefore set up, and the report is called "Increasing the security of threatened and persecuted persons". It was handed over to the current government in June 2015 and has been referred to. The period of referral expired on 1 December 2015, i.e. a year and a half ago. We had expected from the Alliance that the current government would proceed as soon as possible with the reform work to protect the threatened people who were initiated by the alliance government. However, the issue has been ignored by the government parties, and it has taken far too long since the report came. What is most remarkable is that the parliament announced to the alliance government in 2013 that there is a lack of strong protection for victims of violence and that this leads to insecurity and vulnerability. It must be prepared urgently and presented within a reasonable time. The motion is signed by the current Secretary of State Leif Jakobsson, the Social Democrats. Recently, the tax procedure and census report was debated in this House. The Alliance parties have a motion on the importance of the government moving forward with the necessary reform efforts to increase the protection of threatened and violent persons. But judge my surprise when, with the support of the Left Party, the government parties – the Social Democrats and the Green Party – do not think this issue is important despite the announcement made in 2013. The rejection strikes against vulnerable people's need for protection in one of the most vulnerable situations in which they may find themselves. S, MP and V therefore rejected the Alliance's proposal on the need to be able to change identity more easily in the context of violence in close relations and also the proposal for the government to return with a proposal for action. That is why I have put this interpellation to the Minister for Finance. I'd like to hear more about why the bill doesn't come.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-402	Mr President, I would like to This is an important issue raised by Lotta Finstorp, and I very much appreciate the commitment and that there is broad support in the Riksdag to strengthen the protection of vulnerable people. That is precisely why the government is clear that we intend to continue to work on these proposals. However, the consultation bodies had some comments on the precise wording of the proposal, and it is therefore necessary to carry out a preparatory work. It is, of course, important that we get right on these very sensitive issues. It is important to find the right balance when we present the proposals. It is also important to emphasise that it is not the case that the government has not done other things in other areas for threatened and persecuted persons. We have developed, among other things, a ten-year national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women, including honorary violence, measures that strengthen protection and support for women exposed to violence, and measures to combat destructive masculinity and honorary thinking. We have also greatly increased support for women's shelters. In addition, an investigator looking at electronic monitoring of a restraining order has now come up with a proposal. The referral period for that proposal has just expired. The government has also announced that this year we will present an action plan to safeguard the democratic dialogue. Unfortunately, when we talk about threatened persons, it is all too often about women who are threatened by men with whom they have had some kind of close relationship. But it can also be about politicians and other representatives. For women we have done a lot, with women's shelters and other things. As far as politicians are concerned, this year there will be an action plan to safeguard the democratic dialogue against threats and hatred and prevent the vulnerability of elected representatives, but also of journalists and artists, to threats and hatred. A lot of work is being done here by the government, and we are also working on the important investigation that Lotta Finstorp is taking up in her important interpellation today.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-409	Mr President, I would like to I have drawn up three examples to give a better understanding of the problem, but I would also like to say that I fully understand the Minister for Finance's response and the commitment that exists. However, a great many of the victims of violence, persecution and threats are very concerned, because what is now available as security for them is not safe. I have some examples of this. On two occasions an individual in a family applied for support from the social services in Hudiksvall; this has been in a local newspaper in Hudiksvall. On both occasions, letters were sent from Hudiksvall municipality to the address where the family stayed under protected identity. Then it is no longer protected, for then they are exposed in their existence. In a school in Skåne, I think, a student with a protected identity discovered when the school catalogues were distributed at the end of autumn 2016 that his name and picture were in the catalogue. As soon as the error was discovered, the mailings were stopped by the catalogues, and by then 352 out of over 1,200 copies had been sent out. In January 2017, 299 of them had been returned, but 53 catalogues are still on the run. When this person and his family find out that the catalog is out and everyone sees that he n is there, they must bear a terrible fear. Speaking of violence in close relationships, the District Court of Helsingborg revealed a woman's new name to her former husband, even though she had protected her identity. This was done out of carelessness, according to the JO, and criticises the court. This woman lives with a lifelong fear of the former husband, and so it becomes apparent in this way. Unfortunately, there are too many such examples of inadequate protection. That is why this must come from the investigation as soon as possible. We set up the investigation when you in opposition wanted this. All of us want there to be additional protection for those who are threatened and persecuted, whether it is about violence in close relations or about democratic violence. We want to see a change in legislation and developed administrative procedures regarding protected identity and identity change. This will be announced to the government. What often happens seems to happen in the joints between the various authorities, and this is where it must become a kind of bridge. It must, of course, be legal, equal for everyone and so on. If you can suspect in advance that disclosed information about a person may cause persecution or other harm, you can make a classification mark in the population register. A mark is a first safeguard measure and it states that special care should be taken when assessing whether information on the person in question should be disclosed as the information may be covered by confidentiality. However, this is not enough. The marking is intended to give the authorities, so to speak, a flag in the system: here we have a person who is subject to a first safeguard measure. The confidentiality marking procedure is not regulated. The confidentiality mark is generally reviewed every year. Persecuted and threatened persons testify to the fact that this annual re-examination of the mark creates a further cramped fear at the thought that one may not be given continued protection.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-420	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp addresses cases where protection has obviously fallen. I stress the importance of really working on investigative proposals and ensuring that we get protection that does not fall in this way. Many authorities are actively working on this and taking this issue seriously. Many people have protected identity or different types of confidentiality markings where it works. However, it should not be the case that mistakes of this kind occur and that people's school or address is revealed in the way that Lotta Finstorp mentions. I very much stress the need for us to continue working on the investigation. It is also important that when we develop the proposals in accordance with the criticisms that came from the consultation bodies, we end up right and do not risk building new legislation that will put people in a position to get caught. Part of the criticism of referrals was about what tasks different authorities should have in the new legislation. How do we get this right? It must be simple and everyday life must be manageable for those people who in one way or another need protection. At the same time, we must minimise the risk of falling between the seats between the various authorities or of disclosure of information on the way between the authorities. It is important that we find a really good way so that we can have the stable protection that Lotta Finstorp points to the need for.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-424	Mr President, I would like to I feel the hope that the government will soon come up with a proposal, because we have a consensus that these are incredibly important issues. As the Minister for Finance says, everyday life must be manageable for those who live under threat and persecution. It's hard enough as it is. You have to find a kind of interface between the authorities, because that is often where it falls. I look forward to the investigation not getting so old that you have to make a move. That's my concern. I will follow the matter and look forward to a proposal coming as soon as possible.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-427	Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by thanking Lotta Finstorp for raising and highlighting this important issue in an interpellation. We are working on it both by taking the investigation further and by strengthening in other ways the protection of people who are threatened or persecuted in one way or another by past relations or political beliefs, which may affect politicians, journalists and artists alike. I look forward to Lotta Finstorp continuing to be a strong pusher of the issue and that she continues to pant me in the neck.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-429	Mr President, I would like to Jeff Ahl has asked Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht if the government intends to change its approach with regard to the conversion of CO2 and energy tax rates on fuels. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the question. The CO2 and energy tax rates on fossil fuels are recalculated annually with the change in the actual consumer price index, the CPI, which aims to guarantee real value tax rates. From 1 January 2017, a recalculation is also made which takes account of the development of gross domestic product for petrol and diesel fuels. This is in order to maintain the environmental impact of taxation also with rising real income. In practical terms, this is done by a flat-rate addition of 2 percentage points to the CPI recalculation, for both energy and CO2 taxes, but taken as an increase in the energy tax rate alone. The climate threat is stronger than ever, and 2016 was the warmest year on earth since the measurements started. About half of greenhouse gas emissions in non-EU emissions trading sectors come from petrol and diesel fuels. The aim of fuel taxes is to stimulate a shift in greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector and to promote more energy efficient vehicles. The annual recalculation of the energy tax rates contributes to the non-reduction of modality in the transport sector.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-432	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats usually make a large number of the fact that it is a party for the economically less well-off. Unfortunately, the opposite is true. It is important that Sweden is a country that stays together, both from a socio-economic and socio-cultural perspective. What the Social Democrats and the Minister for Finance seem to miss, however, is that distribution policy is not just about levying taxes and then distributing these taxes. It is equally important to consider what taxes are levied and how they are levied. The Swedish Democrats are a party that believes in a solidarity-based distribution policy. It is sad that the Social Democrats, who claim to be in favour of such a policy, are clearly unable to deliver in actual politics. While new expensive environmental cars are to be given tax relief through a so-called bonus – the Malus system, petrol and diesel prices will skyrocket due to the new taxes that the government has already implemented and has announced that it will continue to implement. Thus the effect is that people who have a lot of money get tax relief, because it is usually only those with a lot of money who can afford to buy more expensive cars. On the other hand, lower-income citizens who drive older cars will have to pay considerably more in the form of increased fuel tax. I wonder whether the Minister for Finance and the Government understand that it will be difficult, for example, for a single nurse in the countryside to reconcile the puzzle of life, as the expenditure of the person in question is greatly increasing in percentage terms. Does the Minister of Finance understand that such taxes are hitting the pensioners, those whom the government claims to favour? They depend on the car, and this is particularly true of pensioners living in rural areas. The crumbs you pass on to the elderly in your budget do not cover these increases in expenditure, but it may rather be the case that we are going backwards because of this. It is particularly unsolidarous to take from the poor and give to the rich or to tax the already hard-pressed countryside even harder and give to the big cities. Unfortunately, however, the Social Democrats seem to have fallen on the green party's tracks in this area. Sweden must stick together, and in Sweden we should not tax them with the lowest income. It is clear that, with this distorted tax policy, the Social Democrats intend to give in to the Green Party's depopulation policy for rural areas. I would therefore like to know whether the Minister for Finance understands how distorted this tax policy is. Does the government really believe that fiscal policy is solidarity when it makes it possible to drive a car to a class issue? I also want to know if the Social Democrats, through new government decisions, promise to prevent the Green Party from gaining more influence that affects Swedish rural areas and those who live there negatively.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-440	Mr President, I would like to Jeff Ahl asks if we understand how distorted tax policy is. According to him, it seems to benefit those with high incomes. I would like to remind Jeff Ahl of a debate article that a representative of the Swedish Democrats, the economic-political spokesperson Oscar Sjöstedt, wrote last week. There he was clear that the Swedish Democrats support all the tax cuts of the other bourgeois parties for those with the highest incomes. We want to remove the reduction in the tax credit that we have made for those who earn 50 000 or more. So this means a tax cut for those who earn more than 50 000. They want to remove the entire government defense tax. It is another tax cut for those who earn the most. You want to raise the breakpoint. It is something that affects not only high wage earners but also some middle wage earners, but it does not apply to the nurse. The Swedish democrats are now responsible for a very broad and expensive tax bencher package for those with the highest incomes. It is therefore a little strange when Jeff Ahl stands in the speaker's chair and says that he wants a solidarity-based distribution policy, when tax policy seems to be essentially aimed at reducing the tax burden on those who earn the most. As far as this change is concerned, governance does not increase as revenue increases. The list we have does not mean that environmental management increases over the years, but it is still there. If you do not have such a list, environmental management is constantly decreasing, which of course would not be good from a climate point of view. As people's incomes increase, we also increase taxes, so that the governance is the same in relation to income. The government is also taking a lot of other measures to make it easier for people living in rural and sparsely populated areas. Among other things, we have a special focus on public transport in sparsely populated areas to facilitate public transport.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-444	Mr President, I would like to As Magdalena Andersson may remember, the Social Democrats promised in the run-up to the elections not to increase fuel taxes – perhaps because they then had a distribution policy point of view on this. But this was then broken when you went into government with the party in Sweden that – consciously or unconsciously; I don't know – wants to depopulate the countryside. The increase that will take place will hit those with the lowest income. It's a fact. Each hundred is a big difference for those with lower incomes. We often hear from the Minister for Finance that Sweden has strong finances. If we now have strong finances, why should we raise a tax that hits them specifically with lower incomes? How does that make sense? As far as the climate is concerned, I can say that we are responsible for one per million of these emissions. If we now want to promote the environment, it is probably better to invest in nuclear energy, for example, so that we become less dependent on coal power and other things. But neither does this government. Despite boasting that the finances are strong, spending may increase a great deal. We see, for example, how Sweden is one of the largest net contributors in the EU. We are paying tens of billions to pay overpaid EU bureaucrats in a Union that is becoming increasingly anti-democratic. We have the failed migration policy, which is still hitting our municipalities hard and our public finances hard. Then it may be easier to turn them on with the lowest income because they have the least energy and space in their everyday life to complain. I don't know. Maybe it is. The Swedish Democrats have a policy of solidarity. We are the party that wants to invest most in health care in order, for example, to raise the salaries of civil servants. That is not in line with the statement made by the Minister for Finance. We want to invest money in general to strengthen social safety nets and welfare at large. We have a different policy from that of this government, which admits that we can reduce taxes and at the same time strengthen welfare, defence, police and so on. It's just a matter of priorities. When we voted on the fifth job tax deduction, to take an example, we made a choice and agreed to a tax reduction that was more aimed at those with lower incomes and not at those with higher incomes. The Minister of Finance will have to see how we've taken a concrete stand before she claims anything else. I also note that in our budget we often focus specifically on those pensioners with the lowest incomes. The debate article referred to by the Minister for Finance concerns only a few issues. It is really only about how a possible negotiation could be done. It is a proposal as to what it could look like, not actual politics and nothing that has been decided. A budget is much larger than an individual debate article. I can see that this issue seems a little sensitive, because I cannot be promised by the Minister for Finance that if they want to enforce more proposals that are negative for Swedish rural areas and for the people with the lowest incomes, they will be opposed to the Green Party. I would like to know from the Minister for Finance whether it is intended to fight for rural areas to a greater extent than at present.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-453	Mr President, I would like to The question is why we want this indexation despite the fact that we have surpluses in public finances. As I said, it's because we want to maintain environmental management. If you do not have such indexation, environmental management decreases all the time. It wouldn't be good for the climate. It is important to maintain the same level. Nor are we increasing environmental governance, maintaining the same level and creating good predictability for car manufacturers and consumers. If you listen to Jeff Ahl, you'd think low-income people drive more cars than high-income earners, so this is a regressive tax. Of course, this is not the case, but, of course, people with higher incomes drive more cars than people with lower incomes. I also have a point to make with regard to pensioners with the lowest incomes. In autumn 2014, the Swedish Democrats, together with the other bourgeois parties, stopped a tax cut for pensioners with the lowest incomes. In this debate article, which Jeff Ahl does not really seem to want to know, Oscar Sjöstedt clearly writes that he is prepared to lie down for the Moderates and the other bourgeois parties to ensure that they come into government and that Anna Kinberg Batra becomes Prime Minister. And when Anna Kinberg Batra is Prime Minister, it is of course not a strengthened health care that comes first, but exactly the tax cuts that Oscar Sjöstedt embraces in the article. What the Swedish Democrats stand for now is to reduce the tax on those who earn more than 50 000, to remove the state defence tax, which those with the highest incomes pay, and to raise the cut-off point. It also wants to evaluate a sixth job tax deduction. It is therefore very clear that the Swedish Democrats are responsible for large and extensive tax cuts, mostly aimed at those who earn the most. Of course, there will be no money left for health care. That goes without saying.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-458	Mr President, I would like to I note that those with the lowest income drive smaller cars for a certain reason, namely that they have lower incomes. We can fully agree on that. But what does Magdalena Andersson think will happen if the tax goes up? Well, then they will drive even smaller cars with the lowest income, and that, of course, affects the lowest-income people living in rural areas, where you depend on your car. The Minister of Finance spoke earlier about public transport investments. There is not and will never be public transport in large parts of the countryside. No government will ever be able to make that effort. Mr President, I would like to The fuel tax is a particularly sensitive tax that risks making driving a class issue, and it is clear that the government intends to do so. For the Swedish Democrats, this is unreasonable. According to Magdalena Andersson and the Social Democrats, it is important to tax subsidies for cars that only the wealthy can afford to buy. This issue among many others shows today that only the Swedish Democrats want Sweden to stick together at all levels. Sweden is more than just Stockholm's inner city. This is something the government has to face up to. I expect the government to come to its senses immediately, stop punishing those living in rural areas and ensure that the possibility of transporting themselves is not a class issue.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-462	Mr President, I would like to The government has a comprehensive policy for the Swedish countryside, which consists of a number of initiatives. Among other things, we have expanded universities and colleges across the country, which has been incredibly important for growth around the country in recent decades. We are making sure to move government jobs out in the country, and we have invested billions in expanding broadband across the country. We invest in road maintenance and frost securing and also make special investments in public transport in sparsely populated areas. In addition, we have special support for commercial services. The government is pursuing a comprehensive policy to make it possible to live and operate throughout the country, because we want Sweden to stay together. One might wonder how the Swedish Democrats view this issue, since the Swedish Democrats are now behind a very comprehensive tax bencher package. Jeff Ahl speaks of the Social Democrats representing people in the inner city of Stockholm. I wonder how much of those that the Swedish Democrats now want to reduce tax for, who earn more than 50 000 a month, who are in the inner city of Stockholm. At least it's full of them at Stureplan. It is for those who hang around Stureplan, who are rich in the financial sector, that the Swedish Democrats now want to reduce taxes when they want to remove the cut-off of the job tax deduction for those who earn over 50 000. There are substantial tax reductions for people who earn over SEK 50 000 a month that the Swedish Democrats are now behind. It is important that the voters of the Swedish Democrats know about this policy.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-469	Mr President, I would like to Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby has asked me whether the government will continue to pursue the issue of a kilometre tax and, if so, why. There is now work in progress within the Government Office to produce proposals for the design of a road-wear tax, and our ambition is to present a proposal during the term of office. Our ambition is to come up with a proposal that entails environmental benefits for society, an increased competitive neutrality between Swedish and foreign haulage companies and that means that foreign haulage companies can contribute to the financing of the Swedish infrastructure.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-472	Mr President, I would like to There have been many trips to the proposal for a so-called mileage tax. After the investigation was delayed by a full three months, it was announced that the proposal concerning the tax would be scrapped. This was received with relief by the entire Swedish haulage industry. Malin Öhrlund, truck owner in Kalix, told the newspaper Entrepreneurs that the kilometre tax has cast a shadow over everything and that it is a great relief for the industry that the proposal is paused, especially for those outside the big cities. She says it was about a pure treasure from a distance. It is clear that the kilometre tax is more harmful than the government has claimed and that the introduction of the tax would not at all be as easy to implement as expected. Swedish competitiveness needs to be strengthened, not weakened. In our elongated country, the need for transport by lorries will continue to exist. There are great opportunities to make this transport as environmentally friendly as possible, but kilometre tax does not contribute to this. My question to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson is: Will the Minister of Finance and the Government continue to push the issue of a kilometre tax? In such cases, why? The answer to the Government's ambition leaves much to be desired. Given that Sweden is an export-dependent country that competes with markets with far lower costs than we have here, it is remarkable that the government is considering a tax at a distance that would further impair Swedish competitiveness. Therefore, Mr President, I am now clarifying the question to Magdalena Andersson: Can the Minister of Finance guarantee that a tax from a distance will not impair Swedish competitiveness and jeopardise Swedish jobs and companies?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-479	Mr President, I would like to All taxes affect the way people behave, but so does what you use your tax money for. Such a guarantee can therefore not be issued until you have decided what to use the revenue for. All taxes affect people's behaviour, but the same applies to what you use taxes for. For example, if we had a society without income taxes and childcare and we introduced an income tax, if we were on Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby's side, we would say that this would damage jobs and growth in Sweden. However, if the money was used to expand childcare facilities, so that people could work even when they had children, it would not be something that, taken together, would damage jobs and growth. On the contrary, this would increase employment and growth. This is exactly what the Swedish model is. We have a high tax charge, but we use the money in such a way that it together contributes to jobs and growth in Sweden. Perhaps that is also why we see the highest employment rate in the whole of Europe, precisely in Sweden. Moreover, growth is good. Our ambition is to continue working on a proposal. The point of this is, in addition to making important environmental benefits, to make it easier for Swedish hauliers by having better control of foreign hauliers, which can reduce the risk of illegal cabotage. Foreign hauliers can also contribute to the financing of the Swedish infrastructure, which is good for jobs and growth.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-485	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Magdalena Andersson and the Red Green Government very much want to use the Swedish haulage companies as a bat in the introduction of a kilometre tax. Remarkable, then, is that the Swedish haulage industry is the party that has most opposed the introduction of this tax. I think perhaps you should listen more to those who will be affected by this penalty tax. Magdalena Andersson raised the focus on the environment. It is good to invest in the environment, which I hope all parties in the Swedish Parliament agree on. I also assume that investments in the environment were something that the government had in mind when they gave the assignment to the first investigation into a tax at a distance. The fact that things didn't go so well with that is evidence of Malin Öhrlund when she says in the same article in the Entrepreneurs that I referred to earlier that the purpose of reducing the environmental impact was good but that it didn't bring any benefits for those who invest in machines that don't work on the environment. Will the government continue to pursue the issue of a tax at a distance, even though this harms Swedish competitiveness? Stefan Löfven has previously said that all proposals should be tested based on whether they strengthen growth, jobs and entrepreneurship in Sweden. Where did this end up? Talk about possible effects in other areas does not hold up. If you continue to push for this tax, will it bring real environmental benefits? Will it provide an environmental benefit that is proportionate to the potential export losses that will affect companies that, due to increased transport costs, can no longer compete with their competitors on the European market? It does not matter how to use the money from an increased mileage tax if it erodes the general tax base because Swedish companies lose in competition with other export companies on the European market. What does the Minister of Finance think of the proportion between environmental benefit and export profit or loss?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-492	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the government's proposals in the tax field are damaging jobs and growth is something that moderates have been arguing in this pulpit for two and a half years. However, we note that the proposals do not seem to have really had the effects that the Moderates claim – that they would damage jobs and growth – but that, on the contrary, 200 000 jobs have been created since the government took office and that we have good growth in Sweden. Of course, a well-designed road wear tax will not have to damage jobs and growth in Sweden – especially if you take into account what tax revenues are used for. It is important to be careful about how to use tax revenues, so that good conditions are created for jobs and entrepreneurship across the country. Among other things, the development of infrastructure is important, not least for the haulage industry.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-495	Mr President, I would like to We are not alone in saying that the government's tax policy is damaging jobs and growth. The increase in jobs is due to the fact that we are currently in a fiery boom. I understand that the Minister for Finance has strong faith in the government's ability to satisfy all wishes. But, Mr President, anyone who wants to give everything to everyone often risks becoming quite mediocre. During a debate organised by the Forest Industries on future challenges for them, I was a little surprised that they did not mention at all a forthcoming tax at a distance. After all, it is an industry that is highly dependent on truck transport. When I asked industry representatives how this came about, the answer was that they have been promised to be exempt from the tax. That's good for them! But what about the steel industry, which is in a similar situation – export dependency and with long distances and high dependence on truck traffic? What about the paper industry, which is in the same situation as the forest industry and the steel industry? Which sectors can expect to be excluded, and who cannot? If a number of industries are to be saved from harmful taxation by way of derogation – because I assume that is why they should be excluded, that is because you realise that taxation is harmful to the industry – what happens to the environmental benefit? The government is concerned about the development of Swedish exports; we could read about this in yesterday's Dagens Industri. It clearly shows that the government's export strategy does not deliver. Therefore, my final questions to the Minister for Finance at the moment are: which sectors should be excluded from distance taxation? And how does the Minister of Finance think that the kilometre tax harmonises with the objective of increased exports, more jobs and the EU's lowest unemployment rate?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-501	Mr President, I would like to Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby says that the environment is important. At the same time, I can note that the Moderates in their budget exercise are sharply cutting down on environmental spending and are very lame in terms of active environmental policy, despite the fact that 2016 was the warmest year ever measured. On the other hand, the government has been working extremely actively on climate issues all the way since we entered the Government Office. We have significantly increased the environmental budget but also in other ways increased environmental governance. A road wear tax would be one way of increasing environmental governance. It could both drive the development towards greener vehicles and change the relationship between when it is profitable to drive on a truck and when it is profitable to drive on a boat or train. For this to be possible, it is of course important to invest more in infrastructure, and that is something that the government does. The exact design of a road wear charge is something we are working on in the Government Office right now, so it is not yet possible to comment on.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-504	Mr President, I would like to Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby has asked me if it is my view that the design of the chemical tax contributes to more jobs and strengthens Swedish trade, and if so, in what way. The question is raised in the light of the fact that sales directly from foreign sellers to Swedish consumers are exempt from taxation in the proposed tax on chemicals in certain electronics, which Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby fears will lead to reduced sales for Swedish stores and to fewer jobs. The main purpose of the chemical tax is to reduce the supply of dangerous substances to people's home environment. The chemical tax investigation has estimated that foreign e-commerce will increase by 0.4 percentage points due to the tax. The government has made no other assessment than the investigation in that part. Other factors, such as freight costs or other costs associated with purchases from abroad, are likely to play a greater role in the development of foreign e-commerce than the proposed tax. It should also be noted that the tax shock mentioned by Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby can be avoided if the goods do not contain environmentally and health hazardous chemicals. With the highest rate of tax, the maximum tax will be SEK 32.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-508	Mr President, I would like to A chemical tax will be introduced from 1 July this year. Instead of the tax being based on the exact quantity of environmentally hazardous chemicals contained in the products, the government has chosen to tax the goods according to their total weight. It is products purchased in Sweden that are covered by the tax shock to which Magdalena Andersson referred. In some cases it will pay to buy the same product online, for example from Denmark or Norway. It is something that will lead to reduced sales for Swedish stores and fewer jobs. This is completely out of line with the red-green government's target of the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. My question to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson was: In what way does the Minister of Finance think that the design of the chemical tax contributes to more jobs and strengthens Swedish trade? The finance minister chooses to answer that it probably won't be so bad. I cannot interpret the answer in any other way than that this proposal does not at all promote Swedish jobs and strengthen Swedish trade. The Minister of Finance also refers to high transport costs as an argument against the increase in foreign e-commerce. This does not last either because freight costs are often zero or the same as for Swedish companies. One example is Proshop, which is located in Denmark. There's the shipping cost zero for an iPhone. Where would you buy your mobile phone if the guarantee is the same if you buy it from another country, if the shipping is zero and if the cost of the phone itself is lower? Although the Minister of Finance would be right in his forecast that foreign e-commerce will only increase by 0.4 per cent, this could not possibly lead to a strengthening of Swedish trade and jobs. Strengthening would require an increase, not a reduction. What happened to the demand from Löfven that every measure should lead to more jobs? I would like Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson to explain how this would be done. Does the chemical tax support the government's target of the lowest unemployment rate in the EU 202 0?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-515	Mr President, I would like to I think Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby is making herself more stupid than she is. Of course, you cannot just look at how you design taxes; you also have to look at what you use tax revenue for. The income we receive from the chemical tax will be used in various areas that strengthen jobs and growth across the country. Let us take a mobile phone as an example, if you think it is something that will have a major effect on Swedish trade. It is therefore an increased tax cost of SEK 1 and 80 öre if you buy an environmentally friendly mobile phone from a Swedish trader rather than from a Danish trader. Then you also have to buy directly from the Danish dealer. It is not obvious that there will be a very large influx. Something that makes me a little surprised, however, is what is written in the Moderate Budget Movement. I get the impression there that the Moderates support a chemical tax and also count on this tax revenue in their budget. They say, however, that they want a different chemical tax. I would like to know how Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby wants the tax to be designed and how it should be practical to design it differently from what the government proposes.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-519	Mr President, I would like to Now it is the second interpellation debate in a row where Magdalena Andersson excuses harmful tax increases by saying that we must look at how they are used. But if you erase Swedish growth, jobs and entrepreneurship, there will not be so much tax revenue left to distribute. As Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson rightly points out, we Moderates too have a chemical tax in our draft budget. What we are opposed to is the design of the chemical tax proposed by the government. Take, for example, the carrot that the government pulls out as the silver streak of the cloud: If you reduce the proportion of chemicals in what you sell and can prove this through careful documentation—which will require increased administration—you will get a tax discount! It is this tax rebate that the Minister of Finance addresses in her proposal when she says: At the highest tax deduction, the maximum tax will be SEK 32. Seriously, how does Magdalena Andersson expect this to happen? Who will produce the environmentally friendly mobile phone? How could Swedish dealers achieve the government's carrot? Most electronic gadgets are not produced in Sweden. They are imported from South Korea, Japan, China, the USA and other countries with the whole world as their export market. How much impact does Magdalena Andersson think a Swedish retailer has on a producer in South Korea, for example? I have the impression that Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson already knows the answer, but she still has the opportunity to explain this to me and the Swedish dealers, who do not see how this is going to happen. It would be different if Sweden, instead of unilaterally introducing a tax on chemicals, started to work towards a similar legislation with harmonised requirements within the EU. Then the major manufacturers of mobile phones, televisions or computers may be willing to change their manufacturing process. It is of course good that Sweden should go ahead, and it is something that we often hear from the Red-Green Government that we should do. But where do we end up this time? Does the Minister of Finance really believe that Sweden's chemicals legislation – we are a small country – will affect the global manufacturers of mobile phones?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-524	Mr President, I would like to If the Moderates want us to have similar legislation across the EU on chemicals legislation, and only when this is the case should we be able to have a chemical tax in Sweden, then the Moderates' budget will have a reasonable amount of money. After all, these tax revenues are now included, and we will not be able to have common, harmonised legislation on this in the EU at any time in the near future. Furthermore, we certainly do not want harmonised legislation in the area of excise duty in the EU, so perhaps this is a new proposal. If the Moderates want us to have a national Swedish legislation on chemical taxes, it would be interesting to hear more about how you imagine it to be designed, because it is still shrouded in mystery. I don't think Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby answered that. What are the changes you want if you want a Swedish chemical tax and get that tax revenue? Do you want a tax at EU level, or is it just a piece of legislation you want at EU level? In that case, the Moderates' budget motion lacks money. This taxation is one way of trying to reduce the hazardous chemicals in people's everyday environment and in the home environment. As the tax is designed, an economic incentive is given for people to buy products that have fewer dangerous chemicals per se, thus reducing emissions into the local environment. The point is to reduce emissions in the local environment in Sweden, and that is how the tax is designed. If you buy products with smaller chemicals you also have a lower tax. This may also make foreign and Swedish producers more interested in introducing new and more environmentally friendly products in Sweden.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-527	Mr President, I would like to This would not be the first time that Sweden has cooperated with other countries to put pressure on large producer countries. It is not a question of common European legislation, but simply of trying to put pressure together to achieve a common profit. The problem with the red-green government's chemicals tax is not that it lacks ambition. The problem is that the way it is constructed, it never even comes close to the target. Because of Sweden's negligible importance in this context, global producers will not re-manufacturing as long as several countries do not require the same thing. I believe that Minister of Finance, Magdalena Andersson, understands this even if she argues for something quite different. This means that dealers will never have the opportunity to offer their customers a more environmentally friendly product in order to achieve the tax rebate. For consumers, two choices remain: to buy a product in Sweden or buy it cheaper online from a foreign company. The chemical content will be the same. The environmental impact will be the same. Sweden misses the environmental goal and misses the goal of more jobs, but the government can count on it in the short term. In any case, I must pay tribute to the government for having constructed a tax with a possible tax reduction that is, in principle, only achievable at a rhetorical level. Is that really the aim of the chemical tax?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-530	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Moderates take two positions on this issue. You're against the tax, and you're counting on the tax revenue. So you're against the tax and you're against the tax. Here it sounds to me that the Moderates are against this chemical tax, but at the same time you can see that you are using that tax revenue in your budget motion. I have asked Mrs Cecilie-Toftby how the Moderates want a different chemical tax from that proposed by the government, but I have not received a single answer to that question. In fact, one cannot be both for and against one thing at the same time. It is not serious, and it does not benefit the democratic dialogue.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-532	Mr President, I would like to Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby has asked me, in connection with the proposal to increase the CO2 tax on certain heat production, whether I can guarantee that the tax increase will not affect consumers in the end. This is in view of the fact that I have said that the purpose of the tax increase is for companies to convert and use more environmentally friendly alternatives and that the final customers' bills will not be affected. The aim of the proposed increase in the CO2 tax is to increase the governance of the reduction of fossil carbon emissions in the heating sector, thereby laying the foundations for and accelerating the transition to a society with net zero emissions to 2045. As described in the memo referred by the Ministry of Finance, households are not deemed to be directly affected by the increased CO2 tax. Indirectly, increased tax costs for heating companies can affect households whose heating of homes and hot water takes place with district heating from cogeneration and heating plants. The higher the achievement of the target, the less the risk that household bills will be affected by the CO2 tax. Once the shift away from fossil fuels has taken place, the costs of heating companies will not be burdened by carbon tax. Then the CO2 tax will not affect household heat bills.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-535	Mr President, I would like to The Government has stated that it wants to increase the tax on the use of fossil fuels in heat production. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson has said that the very purpose is to get the companies to change and use more environmentally friendly alternatives and that the bill then is not affected. The fact that the increased costs of businesses have to be recovered from somewhere seems to me that the Minister of Finance has missed the opportunity to talk about, because it is actually consumers who will have to pay the bill at the end of the day. My question to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson was whether the Minister of Finance can guarantee that the tax increase will not ultimately affect consumers in view of the previous statements made by the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance's answer was somewhat ambiguous. Minister of Finance Magdalena Anderson replied that households are not deemed to be directly affected by the increased CO2 tax. Indirectly, increased tax costs for heating companies can affect households whose heating of homes and hot water takes place with district heating from cogeneration and heating plants. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to I wonder how Magdalena Andersson thinks about her own answer. Does the Minister of Finance think that households seriously make a difference to a direct or indirect effect of a tax increase? After all, it's the number at the bottom of the heat bill that applies, isn't it? That is why, Mr President, I am now giving Minister for Finance, Magdalena Andersson, an opportunity to reply. Will the bills of district heating customers be affected by the Government's proposal to increase taxes or not? For the sake of clarity, I would add: will they be affected directly or indirectly?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-538	Mr President, I would like to The purpose of the tax is not, of course, to affect households, but to change and use environmentally friendly fuels instead. That's like the point of environmental taxes. However, during today's interpellation debates, we have noted that the Moderates are against much of the increased environmental governance that the government stands for. We also know that we want to make very substantial cuts in the environmental budget that the government has expanded in recent years. In practice, there is no overall environmental policy at present. The impact of a tax on the next stage depends on the tax incidence. It depends on how the tax passes through the price mechanism. This depends, among other things, on the margins of companies at the moment and on the extent to which an increased tax on an increased price is taken or if it is taken at a reduced margin. That's what they call the tax incidence. It is up to companies to assess what is possible. It is also about how it is estimated that pricing takes place in this industry, if you have marginal cost pricing or another form of pricing. Many consider that this is not marginal cost pricing in the industry. If this is true, tax changes do not necessarily pass on to household bills.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-541	Mr President, I would like to I think we have had to make it clear that Magdalena Andersson admits that it would in any case have an indirect effect on household finances when the government is now raising the tax on district heating companies. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson says it serves a higher purpose. This is supposed to force the dirty district heating companies to switch. I agree with the principle of polluter pays. The polluter pays shall apply. However, the flaws in this argument this time are that the majority of companies that will be affected by the tax increase have already taken major investment decisions in order to switch their activities in order to use more environmentally friendly fuels. These investments take time to implement. The government's tax increase will hardly affect that timetable. However, the tax increase will be negative for the companies. It will have a negative impact on companies – it is often municipal-owned enterprises – the economy. What are the companies going to do to finance both the large investments needed to reset and an increase in the tax burden? Well, they'll have to raise their income. Then there is only one possibility for these companies. That's raising the tariffs. The households that will be affected by increased tariffs are connected to the district heating network and are unable to choose another option. They will therefore suffer from Magdalena Andersson's and the red-green government's tax increase. If the government's objective is to get district heating companies to move towards using more environmentally friendly fuels, why is the tax increased for those companies that have already decided to make the investments that the government is currently asking for? Does Magdalena Andersson and the Red-Green Government not realise that this tax punishes those who want and are about to do the right thing?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-546	Mr President, I would like to Since the introduction of the CO2 tax, Swedish district heating has had a fantastic development, from having 90 per cent fossil fuels in the 1980s to just under 6 per cent in 2014. It is a development that the Moderates have, in practice, been opposed in every step. Were you enthusiastic when we introduced the CO2 tax, Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby? Have you been enthusiastic when we have increased the CO2 taxes? No, the Moderates I know are sceptical about all the environmental governance that the government has proposed. You also want to reduce the CO2 tax in relation to the government. I am interested to hear how Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby thinks that the conversion would have taken place with Moderates' constant rejection of carbon tax and increased environmental governance. The aim is, of course, to be able to take the last percentage so that we can have even cleaner district heating and make it clearly profitable for companies to switch. Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby seems to be confident that this will affect the consumer. I would like to know on what basis she claims that district heating companies actually use marginal cost pricing. It is a precondition for that being the case.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-550	Mr President, I would like to Magdalena Andersson is an economist. She knows that when you get increased costs, you also have to increase your income. For these companies, there is only one way to do that. And that's raising the tariffs. I agree with Magdalena Andersson's description of the development of district heating companies in Sweden. During the time of the alliance government, a lot happened. We took care of our district heating companies. And in the work of the Energy Commission, everyone was keen to safeguard the future of district heating companies. The Government's ambition is to steer towards more environmentally friendly fuels," says Magdalena Andersson. The ambition is good, but I have to ask the question once again: why go in with negative instruments, which is a tax, when developments are already moving in the right direction? The majority of the companies that will be affected have already taken the necessary investment decisions. What are the government's forecasts for the rate of change? Will it be quicker for those who have already taken these decisions, who have taken the investment decisions to speed up so as not to have to increase the tariffs? Or will it take the time it actually takes to project and apply for environmental permits? Now the Minister for the Environment has also entered the Chamber. Both ministers are well aware that it takes time to obtain environmental permits and that good procurement takes time. Does the government really believe that district heating companies will see the tax on the district heating sector as a confirmation of how good you think their work is? Magdalena Andersson himself highlighted, and environmental ministers often highlight, these companies and that they have brought Sweden's environmental position forward. If you are absolutely going to raise taxes, do what it does good, not to punish those who do right!
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-556	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby is theoretically interested in environmental and climate issues. But as soon as it comes to practical politics, she and other Moderates in practice are completely naked. The government's environmental budget is being cut sharply, and we want to reduce environmental governance through the tax system. Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby says that the development is moving in the right direction. But that's because we have a carbon tax. That's why they've changed. It is clear that this sector has had a fantastic development since the introduction of the CO2 tax. When it becomes more expensive to use fossil fuels, the companies switch. The Moderates want to go the other way. They want to reduce the CO2 tax. That would reduce the pressure on the transition. When the Moderates say that they want to protect district heating companies, it is not in the form of tightening up the transition. It is a question of reducing the CO2 tax. This is how the Moderates want to protect the companies: by reducing environmental governance, which would of course lead to increased emissions in Sweden. It's not a way forward. This is not how we build a modern and climate-smart society. With Moderate policies, we would be backing into the future, with less environmental management, but also less spending on our climate. 2016 was the hottest year ever. But the Moderates want nothing in environmental policy.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-561	Mr President, I would like to Ewa Thalén Finné has asked me whether I agree with the view that it is serious that current legislation is almost a total stop to the construction of agricultural land and therefore an obstacle to rural development. She has also asked what measures the government intends to take to make it possible to build on agricultural land and to live outside our urban areas. The Planning and Construction Act states that land and water areas are to be used for the purposes for which the areas are most suitable according to their nature, location and needs. Preference shall be given to uses which, from a general point of view, entail good management. In municipal planning and in building permits matters, the provisions of Chapters 3 and 4. the environmental code is applied. According to the 3rd chapter. Section 4 of the Environmental Code is agriculture an industry of national importance. Sustainable agricultural land may be used for settlement only if it is necessary to satisfy essential social interests and if this need cannot be satisfied in a generally satisfactory way by the use of other land. Essential public interest refers, among other things, to the provision of housing. Agricultural land is a limited resource that is crucial to ensuring food security within the country, and the purpose of the provision is to ensure long-term management of this resource. Agricultural land is not only of interest from a contemporary production perspective but also from a long-term perspective. Useful land with maintained fertility should also be available in Sweden for future generations. In 2014, the then government appointed a special investigator who was tasked with reviewing the rules on land and water management and proposing amendments. The assignment was presented in December 2015, when the so-called "National Interest Investigation" submitted the final report "Planning and decisions for sustainable development" – the Swedish Environmental Code's regulations on housekeeping. The study suggested, among other things, that the county administrative boards should have increased opportunities to monitor the interest of farm-worthy agricultural land in municipal planning. The study also suggested that land and water areas that were particularly suitable for housing supply could be of substantial public interest. The inquiry has been referred, and the consultation period ended in February this year. The investigation's proposals are currently being prepared within the Government Office, and I cannot therefore now comment on which of the proposals the investigation has made may result in a change in legislation. In January this year, the Rural Committee also submitted its final report for Sweden's rural areas – a coherent policy for work, sustainable growth and welfare. The Committee considered that there were several reasons why rural areas needed more attention in the municipal survey planning and therefore made proposals in the area of community planning and housing construction. The consultation period for the Rural Committee's report expired in March of this year. The report is currently being prepared within the Government Office. The government works very actively for increased housing construction through the housing policy package. However, it is important to have a long-term perspective where essential social interests are weighed against each other.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-567	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for the Environment for his reply. I would then like to state that the Minister for the Environment and I fully agree that it is essential that different social interests are weighed against each other and that one has a long-term perspective. It is also the basis for the management rules in the third and fourth chapters of the environmental code. I would like to emphasise that we must always strive for land and water management and that agricultural land is a finite resource that we should be careful about. So far, I cannot see any conflict on this issue. The reason I put the interpellation is linked to two recent judgments by the Land and Environment Court of Appeal. In these individual cases, the Court concludes that the construction of individual houses outside the designated area cannot be regarded as a public interest. That's why they say no to these constructions. The Court's reasoning means that the construction of a single residential building is not as essential a public interest as is necessary to ensure that derogations from the housekeeping rules apply. Furthermore, the Court takes the view that the balance of interests under Chapter 2. The Planning and Construction Act results in an interest in the long-term conservation of farmland that outweighs the individual interest in building on individual land. It can then be noted that the position of the Land and Environment Court of Appeal in general should make it difficult to locate single residential buildings on land that is worthy of farmland. This is what I find troubling. We also need rural development and to enable people to live and work in rural areas. In order to operate in the countryside, one must also be able to live on it. On this basis, I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment once again whether the balance that has been struck in these judgments seems reasonable, or whether there may be reason to consider the judgments in the light of future legislation.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-576	Mr President, I would like to Ewa Thalén Finné will be aware that I, as Minister of State, will not and will not, of course, give an opinion on the decisions of the courts in individual cases. However, there is a lot to say about the importance of having a productive agricultural land in Sweden. The agricultural land represents barely 7% of the country's surface area, and this agricultural land is different in productivity. With the anchoring that I and the honourable Member have in Skåne, we are well aware that high-quality agricultural land is particularly important to maintain productive land. For a long time now, agricultural land in Sweden has been declining – this is because the land has moved to another use. A prerequisite for the growth of food and agricultural holdings is the existence of productive land and water resources that can be used for food production. Good management and productive agricultural land must be pursued for both sustainability and competition reasons. Today, 600 to 700 hectares of agricultural land are exploited each year for settlements and facilities in Sweden. The Swedish Board of Agriculture's analysis of the area of agricultural land that has been exploited shows that a very large proportion of the land used is high-yielding arable land in plain areas. This means that the most valuable land from the point of view of production is often subject to the highest exploitation pressure. In case of exploitation, there is also a risk that remaining agricultural land will be fragmented and divided into too small areas in order to be used rationally. This has been noted by the Competitiveness Investigation, which states that the creation of rational companies with coherent land is an important prerequisite for achieving sufficient profitability. The Swedish Board of Agriculture's evaluation of the application of this provision in the environmental code shows that it is important to take care of agricultural land. It is said that the application has shortcomings and that the protection of the soil is too weak. Many municipalities state to the Swedish Board of Agriculture that they have lower capacity to assess the value of agricultural-related interests compared to other interests. There is a lack of evidence and expertise on agricultural land and production. In order to avoid restrictions hindering the rational operation of agriculture, housing should not be placed in such a way that they are at risk of being disrupted by agricultural production. All of this shows that what may appear as a simple measure – a single house on highly productive agricultural land – can significantly disrupt the development of agriculture in Sweden. I think we agree that we want more food production in Sweden and that more land should be put into use than is currently in use. Then I am more concerned about the disappearance of highly productive agricultural land than about the 7% being a major obstacle to housing in rural areas.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-586	Mr President, I would like to A lot of reasoning can be held on this matter. I am also trying to avoid speaking about individual judgments. The Court interprets the legislation we decide on. If you draw some conclusions from judgments, it might be a question of thinking about how the legislation is formulated and whether a certain piece of legislation is 100% adequate. As the Minister for the Environment highlighted, I also live in Skåne, and I live in a municipality that is built only on highly productive agricultural land. But that is not really the issue that I would like to discuss here today. It has its own problems, and we can turn these questions around a lot. I think that the problem arises if we cannot develop the countryside and build a single house on a farm, for example for generational change or other reasons, because we are based on farm-worthy agricultural land. Then we will impoverish the countryside. Who, then, should act on the agricultural land? If you cannot live there, it will most likely not be used either. I think it will be very rarely that someone commutes to the countryside to work. As a rule, we see the reverse. This aspect needs to be considered. I'm going to highlight the Rural Committee, which is an investigation set up by the government. It has come up with its report and, as a result, an investigation has been set up to look at rural loans and credit guarantees in order to make it possible to build individual residential buildings in rural areas. Based on the judges and the conclusions that lawyers at SKL, among others, have drawn, there will be an investigation that looks at something we will never benefit from. If there is no land to build the single houses on – it's in the plains we have the most rational farms, and that's where these houses need to be set up – we might not need any new credit guarantees either. I will come back to the question: who is to farm agricultural land if it becomes difficult or almost impossible to build single houses on agricultural land?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-591	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Mrs Ewa Thalén mentions the Rural Committee and its report. They have looked at the possibility of having a living countryside where you can live and work through your own business or other nutrition. One thing they raise, where they see problems with municipal survey planning, is that the protection of high-productivity land is not sufficiently well addressed. They say that one reason to review municipalities' survey planning is to protect land areas that have potential for increased food production and for investments in renewable energy sources. The Committee is concerned, inter alia, by forecasts from the OECD, which show that access to natural resources such as agricultural land, forests, water and ecosystem services will be incredibly important and an essential basis for a future living countryside. From the government's side, we are very pleased to see that it is now being built in large parts of the country, but we have noted, inter alia, from the Rural Committee's report, that there are concerns about the possibility of building new housing in what is called weak housing markets, which exist in different parts of the country, including in rural areas. That is why we have focused on that particular problem. What we have identified as the main obstacle to housing construction is that production costs may be close to or above the market value of the finished dwelling, which makes it difficult to find funding for both new production and conversion. That is the main problem, which is identified and which we focus on solving. As you probably know, we are also working with other parts, which are about reviewing the so-called LIS areas. It is an opportunity to make exceptions to beach protection in rural areas. The 7% of agricultural land mentioned is no longer 7%, because that is a figure that is a few years old. However, the fact that it would be an obstacle to agricultural development if they were to continue to be agricultural land is an argument that I cannot keep up with. It is incredibly important that, above all, high-productivity agricultural land is protected for production and business today and in the future, so that we can live and live with services from the earth.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-595	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for the Environment comes back to the issue of large-scale construction. Now a lot is being built again, which I welcome in itself. Still, it is not built enough. It sounded very interesting when the Minister for the Environment brought up the LIS areas and the beach shelter. In order to achieve rural development, we may need to look at the protection of the beach in order to make it possible to build and finance housing construction. I am not talking about large-scale housing, which we urgently need, but about individual residential buildings. Once again, I would recommend to the Minister for the Environment to go deeper into the judges. I note that it does not matter what credit guarantees the state offers to build on the economically weaker markets, where we have lower market prices, if there is no land to build on. Perhaps one should consider some similar rural development but for individual housing houses, precisely so that we can develop entrepreneurship in rural areas so that we can have a living countryside where people can live and work. Again, I do not think that people want to commute to work in rural areas, but we need to protect the countryside and also ensure that individual residential buildings can be built there.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-598	Mr President, I would like to You can base the conclusions you are basing your policy on individual examples or on the systematic reviews that we are well provided with from our authorities. Today around 600 to 700 hectares of agricultural land are exploited annually in Sweden for settlements and facilities. How to conclude from this that it would be impossible to build on agricultural land in Sweden I find it difficult to see. Worse still, the land that is being built is the most productive land we have, and it is the one that is most sustainable for the future, as an opportunity for future industries in rural areas. The Board of Agriculture has looked at this systematically. It specifically identifies the risk of building in a way that fragments the agricultural land we have and of building in a way that is close to agricultural production and thus carries with it risks of disruption that may lead to restrictions on the possibility of operating on productive land. These are the conclusions drawn by our authorities, and the recommendations they have made to the government have been to strengthen knowledge of agricultural land, productivity and the needs of agriculture in municipal planning.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-601	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg has asked Minister Anna Johansson why work on a sanction system has been delayed, when this work will be completed, when a new effective sanction system can enter into force and what measures the Government intends to take to promote the continued environmental work of the shipping industry. The interpellation has been handed over to me. The sulphur content of marine fuels is regulated by Swedish law in the regulation on sulphur dioxide. On 1 January 2015, the sulphur content requirements in SECAs were tightened. On 1 January 2020 the requirements will also be tightened for ships operating outside SECAs. As mentioned by Johan Hultberg, the shipping industry has done extensive work to develop and introduce new technologies and to change fuel. It can also be concluded from the results of the Swedish Transport Agency's supervision that the vast majority of ships comply with the new stricter requirements. Today, infringements of the sulphur regulation are regulated as environmentally hazardous chemical management. In the case of foreign ships, there are some practical challenges. Since the ships are rarely in Swedish waters for a long period of time, the prosecutor lacks a practical opportunity to investigate possible crimes. The lack of means to investigate suspected infringements renders the rules ineffective and the system is not satisfactory. As Johan Hultberg knows, work is therefore ongoing within the Government Office to develop a functioning sanction system in order to ensure good compliance with the sulphur directive's requirements. In the course of the work, a number of complex legal issues have arisen, particularly in the light of the special circumstances of shipping. Against this background, work has taken longer than expected. However, it is the Government's intention to present a proposal shortly. In order to promote the continued environmental work of shipping, the Government will continue to be active within the IMO and other international bodies. The government is also taking measures nationally. Examples of these measures are the Climate category and the assignment to Trafikanalys to investigate the conditions for introducing an ECO bonus system.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-605	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The background to this interpellation and this debate is that we in the Baltic Sea and the North Sea have extremely strict rules for the use of sulphur fuels. Basically, it's very good. We had a rather loud and lively debate for the introduction of the new tough rules, which came into force in 2015. However, two years after the introduction, we can see that things have actually gone much better than we might have hoped and believed. It's a lot because the industry has done a very good job. Efforts have been made to develop and introduce new technologies. Not least, huge investments have been made. That is what has been demanded. It takes huge investments to move from using the high sulphur fuel to, as today, using only fuel containing 0.1 % sulphur by weight. That, Mr President, is to be compared with the fact that fuel of 3.5% sulphur can be used globally. There's a huge discrepancy in between. It is therefore incredibly important that compliance with these strict rules is good. As the Minister pointed out in his response to my interpellation, it seems to be – so far anyway. Most companies, most shipping companies and most ships use permitted fuel and meet the requirements of the sulphur directive. It has generated a better environment, which benefits our nature and not least human health. Air pollution is a major health problem in Europe, and shipping has part of that responsibility. Unfortunately, however, the risk is quite obvious that compliance will deteriorate if we do not have a functioning control system on the ground – and we do not. That problem is not new. It has been known for a long time that the current system is not working. It is quite right, as the Minister says, that it is difficult to prosecute. It is difficult to prosecute companies and shipping companies that violate these rules, as the ships simply sail away before the law's arm gets hold of them. But already in 2014 the Swedish Transport Agency presented the need for another sanction system. Suggestions were also made as to what one might look like. It was proposed to introduce a fine instead of taking the road through the courts. After that, this government has said it would like to introduce such a system. I have followed several debates in this House with the Minister's colleague, Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson, who has confirmed that the government is working on this and that the work is a high priority. That was already said two years ago. But to this day, we stand where we stand. We don't have an effective system in place, and the government still claims to investigate. I have to ask: what are the complex legal issues that have arisen and which delay the proposal? Mr President, I would like to We can be clear about what today's situation means. The companies and shipping companies – the vast majority of them – who are doing well and who live up to the rules have taken on high costs. Then there are some bad guys out there who don't live up to the rules. They have a competitive advantage. It pays to break the rules. It pays to soil our nature. It's an unreasonable order. I have to ask the Minister: how long is that order going to last? And how long will that be in the near future? The government says that a proposal should be made shortly. When's that?
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-612	Mr President, I would like to I must first be pleased that we can stand here and note that the introduction of a sulphur directive has gone easier and faster than what it sounded like in the debate that preceded its introduction. These are preliminary data, but it looks like we also have very positive effects in the air. I would ask you to come back with a more elaborate material in that part. But the preliminary data are very positive. There are less dangerous discharges into our air. Why is it so hard? Sweden has 100 commercial and industrial ports. The latest figure we have is from 2013. At that time about 78 500 ship runs were made in these ports. The Swedish Transport Agency carries out port state controls and performs in these unannounced inspections of sulphur in fuels. Sometimes so-called host state controls are also carried out together with the corresponding authority in neighbouring countries. A starting point of the environmental code is that the most serious infringements are subject to criminal liability, while the less serious are instead caught up by other sanctions and means of compliance. One aim is to avoid the same act being subject to double sanctions in the form of penalties and environmental sanctions. As the infringement of the Sulphur Regulation is already subject to the criminal penalty, it is necessary to investigate and deal with this issue. The proposal also contains other complex legal issues related to the peculiarities of shipping. It is important to stress that the vast majority of companies have changed and comply with the directive. In 2016, the Swedish Transport Agency took 165 oil samples and made nine reports of infringements. The fact that these cannot be followed today by sufficiently good consequences is, of course, not satisfactory. That is why we are working on finding a better system of sanctions. Part of the complexity concerns contamination risk and the risk of incorrect delivery in bunkering. It contributes to the fact that the current system of sanctions makes it almost impossible to give infringements to prosecutions leading to conviction. Cases submitted for prosecution are often dismissed on the grounds that it is not possible to prove intent or to substantiate crimes. That is why we will be presenting a proposal for a better system of sanctions in the near future.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-617	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for that somewhat more detailed answer. I am not a lawyer, so I may underestimate the complexity and difficulties, but I think it should be quite easy to change the legislation so that the rules do not hit the ships and shipping companies, and introduce a system of penalties with fees. This is what the Swedish Transport Agency proposed in 2014. At that time, the Swedish Transport Agency's ambition was that the proposal could enter into force and be implemented already when the new tough rules were introduced, i.e. 2015. I find it unfortunate and, in fact, rather strange that this issue has taken so long. In some sense, I am also a little concerned and perplexed if it is the case that there is no one in the government who knows leadership or responsibility for this issue fully, because previous interpellation debates in this House, Mr President, have been taken by Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson and I now have the pleasure of standing here with the Minister for the Environment and debating the same issue. I have to ask myself the question somewhere: is this a hot potato balling around between the departments and the ministers? Is it that no minister feels really responsible for the matter? The Minister returned in his second speech to the fact that compliance today is good. Yeah, it's pretty good. But there are those who cheat, and it distorts competition and has negative consequences for our environment and health. Above all, there is a clear risk that compliance will deteriorate when it is obvious to companies that cheating actually pays off and that it has not paid off for the companies that have been at the forefront, invested in new technologies and, in fact, often developed new technologies. Swedish shipping companies and skippers have been the ones who have driven technology development, as we were the first in the world to introduce the new strengthened rules, along with some other SECA area along the North American coast. The industry has thus done a great deal of work, and the implementation has gone easier than we might have thought. But it is also a consequence of the fact that the price of low sulphur fuel was much lower than would have been expected, which has been recorded. It is extremely important that the government here works urgently and makes a proposal that simply creates fair competition and ensures that there is as low sulphur emissions as possible, for the sake of the environment and health. Mr President, I would like to Then I also had a question a little more generally about what the government is doing to promote the environmental work of shipping, which was perhaps the issue that led the Minister for the Environment to take over this interpellation from his colleague. The government says that it is active in the IMO and other international bodies. Unfortunately, the signals I have received from, among others, the industry are that Sweden is quite passive in the IMO, that Sweden does not put concrete proposals on the table and so on. The IMO is an organisation that works in such a way that it must be the Member States that raise proposals, ideas and thoughts in order for something to happen, so I strongly urge the government to be more active there. And I choose to interpret the answer positively and see this as that the government may not have been so active but now intends to raise ambition. I think that is extremely important. Maritime transport, like aviation, is extremely international in nature, so I really think it is important to seek as many common rules as possible. Nevertheless, I can see that other countries, such as Germany and the Netherlands, have managed to introduce sanctions systems that have been able to punish those who have not lived up to the sulphur directive. Sweden should also be able to do so.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-626	Mr President, I would like to We can say quite simply and quickly that we agree that it is urgent to have a functioning sanction system in place. And I can reassure the honourable Member that it is not a hot potato, but it is a work that is going on with solving legal knots so that we can make a good proposal. Then I will be happy to say a few words on the second question. I have to say that one of the best things about my mission as Minister for the Environment is that I have the opportunity to sit down and interact with those industries that want a lot in the environmental field, and the maritime industry has become one of them. Swedish shipping is on its toes, stands for innovation and really sees itself as part of a sustainable transport system. I would also like to say that we are under-exploiting shipping in Sweden. With our long coastline and many well-functioning ports, shipping could play a much greater role, especially in our cargo handling, because shipping is an energy-efficient mode of transport. An increasing share of maritime transport would be very positive, not least from a climate perspective. We have implemented a number of measures to strengthen the competitiveness of shipping. One example is that last October the new tonnage tax system came into force. The introduction of tonnage taxation in Sweden strengthens the competitiveness of the Swedish merchant fleet. We have also commissioned the Swedish Maritime Administration, in close cooperation with Trafikverket, to analyse the development potential of inland navigation and coastal shipping in Sweden. As far as environmental measures are concerned, we welcome the fact that applications have been submitted to the Swedish Transport Agency, both to Öckerö Municipality and to the Finnish Transport Agency. It has been about conversions of ferries to electricity. I would be very pleased if we could see further such applications. Here I can point out that companies can also apply to the Climate Centre. Much work is also being done in cooperation between the responsible municipalities, ports and shipping to advance innovation and test new technologies and fuels. Just a few weeks ago, the news came that the first really large ship will now be sailing in the Baltic Sea on liquid gas, which is a fuel for the future. As far as the IMO is concerned, Sweden must of course be active in the IMO. The latest really good environmental proposals that we have got through, however, we have come up with within the Helcom cooperation. Helcom has identified effective measures for the Baltic Sea and jointly proposed them to the IMO. Two such proposals on the way to decisions in the IMO are on the one hand dealing with the management of waste water by the major cruise companies and on the other hand making the Baltic Sea a NECA target, i.e. also dealing with NOx emissions from shipping. These are two very positive proposals. It is important that we have agreed in the Helcom area. It takes a little longer, but it is a very good way to work with the environment in the Baltic Sea together with the IMO and our neighbours.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-634	Mr President, I would like to It is a good thing that we can take precedence over environmental legislation and work on the environment in maritime transport in order to benefit the marine environment and, as the Minister for the Environment points out, tackle the problem of grey and black water, which has been a sequel and which I have also debated in this House in the past. It is gratifying that we are now finally making progress on this issue and have also brought Russia and the other countries around the Baltic Sea to ensure that the hugely large floating hotels take good care of their waste water. I also believe that it is extremely important, Mr President, that we not only work in the region where we are, here on the Baltic Sea, but we must also push in within the IMO to tighten up the global rules. Shipping has sailed under the radar a little bit, if the expression is allowed, and has not had much rules and demands on itself. Now we have strict sulphur rules in the Baltic Sea and the North Sea. They will be progressively tightened globally over the coming years, and that is a good thing. But we also need more and tougher rules on the climate impact of shipping in general. In this regard, I think that the IMO is the main way forward and that is where we should try to make demands on emissions and subsequently possibly try to put a price on emissions. This is the best way forward and a better way forward than, for example, incorporating shipping into the EU ETS. I want to see a global regulatory framework there. Mr President, I would like to Then I hope – and I am afraid I cannot do more – that the government will live up to the ambition to urgently put in place a system of sanctions, which is so important. If we are to continue to drive eco-innovation and ensure that Swedish shipping is at the forefront, we must maintain healthy competition. Then it must pay off to do the right thing and make the investments that lead to a better environment, and that requires an effective system of sanctions.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-638	Mr President, I would like to I can conclude briefly by saying that I fully agree with the honourable Member that it is important that we have an effective sanction system in all parts of our environmental legislation, and I can also reiterate that we will be coming back with one in the near future.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-639	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has asked me how I estimate that Sweden's environmental impact will change globally in the coming years and in which sectors I can see an increased and reduced load. Mr Gjörtler also asks what measures I and the government are prepared to take in this regard. Swedish production and consumption lead to environmental and climate impacts both in Sweden and in other countries. The overall objective of environmental policy is to deliver to the next generation a society in which the major environmental problems are solved. Rich countries have historically accounted for a large part of the climate and environmental impact, and they must now take precedence. Since Sweden has limited ability to make demands on production in other countries, global agreements and collaborations are of great importance in reducing the global burden. Sweden will therefore continue to show leadership for sustainable development and global environmental and climate work, for example in the implementation of the Paris Agreement and Agenda 2030 as well as in bilateral collaborations. An important part of Sweden's leadership is to drive technology development and strong innovation work. It affects and drives the development of greener solutions worldwide, including through the export of environmental and resource-efficient technologies. With low emissions in production, Sweden can also contribute to reducing global emissions even if production itself increases, if it replaces production with greater load. Sweden can contribute to positive development and reduce the global burden through efforts in a number of areas. One of the government's priorities is to transform into a circular economy. This means taking into account the entire value chain of products in order to reduce climate and environmental impact and increase resource efficiency, whether the products are produced in Sweden or in other countries. Measures that contribute to sustainable consumption and production and a circular economy are presented in a series of recently adopted strategies of the Swedish Government, such as the Smart Industry Strategy, the Export Strategy, the Food Strategy, the Sustainable Consumption Strategy and the Circular and Bio-based Economy Collaboration Programme. The objectives of the food strategy include increased total food production and an increased proportion of organic production, while contributing to sustainable development throughout the country. With low greenhouse gas emissions in the production of different foods, Sweden can help reduce global emissions, where it replaces food production with higher emissions. Production growth, both conventional and organic, should respond to consumer demand. There is a huge demand for organic food, and there is currently a shortage of several Swedish organic products. For other sectors, such as manufacturing, the production of raw materials shall be sustainable. Furthermore, materials and products must be reused, recycled, repaired and upgraded to an increasing extent. Among other things, the government has introduced tax reductions and reduced VAT to increase repairs of products. Changing consumption habits is one way to reduce environmental impact. The Government therefore intends to take greater account of the environmental impact of consumption by, among other things, increasing knowledge of the consequences of consumption, both nationally and globally, stimulating behaviour patterns that take into account sustainability aspects and promoting the efficient use of resources. This reduces the negative environmental impact of consumption and creates the conditions for sustainable growth. In accordance with the Sustainable Consumption Strategy, the Government is to establish a forum for environmentally smart consumption and to stimulate environmentally smart consumption patterns. It is the Government's ambition to achieve environmental objectives. The achievement of the objectives has intensified, and more and more actors in society are involved in different types of environmental work. At the same time, there is a great need for further measures to change society and meet its objectives. The government therefore wants to increase the pace of implementation.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-650	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for the Environment, for your answer. Among other things, the 2030 Agenda targets set out that all UN member states should work to ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns and promote sustainable agriculture. The Swedish Parliament has also set the generational goals, which I mention in the interpellation, where it is clear that we should not export our environmental impact to other countries. It is important to bear in mind that sustainability issues are about the balance between the environment, the economy and social issues, but they are also about weighing local and global aspects. The government has indicated that it wants to increase both production and consumption and exports of organic food. As an increased proportion of organic production results in lower production volumes overall, this poses some problems. Since Swedish food production is generally more environmentally friendly than the alternatives, a reduction in Swedish production also means an increased environmental impact globally. The goods must then be replaced by products that are produced elsewhere and probably with less stringent requirements. According to some research, including from SLU, described in the book The Organic Dream, organic farming does not reduce nutrient emissions to surface and groundwater and risks contributing to eutrophication. This is an obstacle to the achievement of the eutrophication target set by the Riksdag, which is one of the environmental objectives. The researchers also warn that targets for increased consumption of organic food mean that natural land must be converted into arable land in Sweden or abroad. This means that forest or grasslands where carbon dioxide is stored must be harvested. It is problematic from an environmental and climate perspective. In addition, organic production often has higher climate emissions per kilogram of product produced. Now, the Minister for the Environment said in his reply that, with low emissions in production, Sweden can also contribute to reducing global emissions even if production itself increases, in cases where it replaces production with higher loads. That is absolutely true, but the reverse also applies. If Swedish production decreases and is replaced by production in other countries with higher emissions, global emissions increase. With high emissions in production, Sweden contributes to the increase in global emissions even if production itself decreases. Let me sum up. With more organic production we risk a situation where we produce less in Sweden but with increased emissions of greenhouse gases per kilogram of product produced, while the reduced production must be replaced by imports of products that have a greater environmental impact. That's a double negative effect. The problem is that we are in breach of several of the environmental objectives and also of the generational target. Why has the government formulated such a crazy goal in terms of increasing organic production? With such an objective, one would like to know how the government intends to act in order to reduce the negative environmental impact caused by the action. My questions in my interpellation concerned both how the government views emissions from different sectors and our exports of our environmental impact, and what the government intends to do about them. I am forced to note that despite a rather long answer that contained a lot of interesting reasoning, there are no answers to both questions. I did not hear a description of what it looks like in the various sectors, nor did I hear suggestions as to what the government wants to do to remedy the problems.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-657	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Jonas Gjörtler is asking a question based on the part of the implementation of Agenda 2030 dealing with sustainable consumption and production. I have previously seen a resistance from the Moderates to discussing and addressing that part of the environmental work. The reason why this is so important is that the statistics show that the sum of climate impacts from Swedes' lifestyle and consumption is significant. It is considerably larger than the emissions that occur within Sweden's borders. It is mainly the part of emissions in other countries that is responsible for the increase, partly as a result of increased food imports and international travel. This is one of the reasons why the Government's spring budget proposal this year has been supplemented by an environmental annex, one of the focus areas being analysis of the impact of consumption. If you read that annex, you can see many things, including that this is an area that needs to be further developed so that we have even better ways of getting a grip on these issues as a guide for future policies. But we already know today that this is an area we have to deal with. Within the food strategy, which has strong support in the Riksdag, it has been agreed to increase food production in Sweden overall. There are many good reasons to do so. But it is also said that food production should meet consumers' demand for conventionally and ecologically respectively. When we take this back and look at what we are going to do, what will be the next step, and can say that the demand for organic food is greater than Swedish production, it is for me natural and not a political position that we start a work to increase organic production to meet this demand. Increased production of organic food would also help to achieve several of the environmental quality objectives, such as a non-toxic environment, a rich agricultural landscape and a rich plant and animal life. We know quite a lot about how organic production contributes to biodiversity in the agricultural landscape. This is a very important issue, because it is in those very parts that biodiversity is declining most rapidly. I do not see the conflict of objectives highlighted by Mr Gjörtler, i.e. that increased organic farming would lead to less production volume. Among other things, this should be seen in the context of a work to increase Swedish food consumption. There is currently a shortage of several Swedish organic products. The growing market for organic food creates opportunities in the market for small and large Swedish agricultural and food businesses. It is incorrect that the lack of opportunity to meet consumer demand is due to an acute shortage of land. I haven't seen any analyses saying that's what's missing. It is about bringing up production volumes and increasing commercialism, and it is about production chains. Getting a value chain in entrepreneurship is what is needed most.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-665	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for the Environment, for your answer. I must say, however, that I am a little confused about the reasoning. The Minister for the Environment began by stating that this is about more than emissions within Sweden and that one of the biggest factors for our environmental impact is the import of food. It is precisely this reasoning that underpins my interpellation: if we steer politically towards a production that gives lower volumes of production, it means, everything else equal, that we will have to import more. Everything else is equal, therefore, the environmental impact is greater. We are increasing our global environmental impact. That is precisely the problem I am trying to highlight, so I do not really understand the environmental minister's reasoning. I think that what is being said here urgently underlines exactly the point I am trying to make. As far as environmental objectives are concerned, it is correct that outcomes can be different. It is not everywhere that the results are clear. Biodiversity, for example, can in many cases be significantly improved through organic production. However, it is quite a lot about what it looks like in the surroundings, around these lands. For the goal Non-toxic environment it is also clear. But we see that there are major problems, for example, with regard to climate emissions. The demand of the market will govern, it says in the objectives that we agree on. That's correct. The only question is what you mean when you talk about a market. It is not the case that consumers today pay in full what it costs for organic production. There are quite a lot of public subsidies for organic production. So we do not really know whether consumers are prepared to pay what they perceive as added value. I think that if we say that the market should govern this, then we should also remove this type of subsidy. My perspective is not that environmental work would not be important in food production. It's the other way around. Instead of focusing on a production form and trying to steer people to consume or produce more of it, I think we need to work with the environmental impact of our entire food production. We can do this at the same time as food production can increase and thus reduce the impact that comes from imports. We know that technological developments are progressing rapidly. As far as the use of plant protection products is concerned, we are already the world leader – we use very little in what is called conventional production. It can be further reduced by new technologies. Robots can accurately spray where needed or even weeds manually. So we know that technology will make this even less of a problem in the future. The question then arises as to why it is so important to steer away from a more ideological – almost religious – form of production, excluding some of the tools that might even be needed for health reasons to eliminate fungal attacks and things that can be harmful even to humans. I would also like to point out that there is a somewhat sloppy wording in the answer from the Minister for the Environment. It says that the environmental objectives of the food strategy are a higher proportion of organic production. That's not quite correct. It is part of the government's own formulation, but the long-term objectives that we have broadly agreed do not include that wording. There we are talking about increasing food production in general or in total. I note, as I said, that the Minister for the Environment has not yet responded properly to the questions I have asked and I hope that it will be possible to have this developed a little more in the next answer.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-675	Mr President, I would like to The parts relating to the food strategy have been agreed. We have broad support for and put incredible emphasis on increasing food production in Sweden. One reason is the one that Gjörtler points out: that the Swedish agricultural sector should be of good quality and create high quality food. Another is the advantage of having production close to consumption. We also say that production should meet demand. There is more demand for organic products than there are Swedish products. It has been a driving factor in increasing exports that consumers have searched for products that have not been in Swedish production. I think it is rather pure mathematics that we have started work to increase the production of Swedish organic food. This also goes hand in hand with recommendations from authorities, not least as regards the impact on biodiversity in the agricultural landscape. There we see a decline in species at a very worrying rate and also major problems with pollinators, which are crucial for all agriculture. Another discussion is about how Swedish consumption affects the world. There we agree on the view – which is also included in the annex to the spring bill – that increased food imports are part of the increase in our consumption-based emissions. Then Gjörtler turns to a theoretical reasoning. For that to be true, it is based on the fact that the number of square metres of land that we use today remains the same and that a theoretical shortage of land constitutes an obstacle to increased Swedish food production, specifically the organic. But here is something that is not right – we unfortunately have land lying fallow in Sweden. This is also one of the reasons why we want to increase Swedish food production: We see benefits from the land being kept up through crop growing and animal husbandry. On the contrary, there is a value in more land being used in Sweden. Unfortunately, Gjörtler then loses the slightly greater reasoning that is needed to really get a grip on the whole when it comes to how we Swedes affect through our consumption and create emissions in Sweden and abroad. The great potential of working more on this issue is what we can achieve bilaterally and collaboratively in the countries to which we export. We have very successful bilateral collaborations, which are linked to trade where we spread Swedish administrative expertise and not least our environmental expertise. This allows us to influence the production that we then consume when we import.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-683	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of the Environment. I think there is a great deal of wisdom in the reasoning of the Minister for the Environment, and I agree with much of what is being said at the end. I still find other parts of the argument rather objectionable. It is, of course, correct that it cannot be assumed that the supply of land should be exactly the same. One could, of course, use some or all of the set-aside land. So in some sense it is true that there is access to land that is not used. At the same time, I think you should think a little critically and think about what land you think has been set aside. It is unlikely to be the very best and most productive agricultural land. I believe that this must be taken into account. A summary from SCB and the Swedish Board of Agriculture shows that the actual organic cereal harvests are significantly lower; they produce between 45 and 70 per cent compared to conventional cereal harvests. For food potatoes, the figure is 49%. This gives a picture of how much more land is needed to compensate for the loss of control. Then I think that you should not really think so narrowly, but you need to think bigger. Sweden has a responsibility, I think, in a global perspective, especially if we take into account Agenda 2030. We have a responsibility to produce as much food as possible under our conditions, because there is a global need for this. We could export a lot more. Instead of focusing on a form of production that produces low volumes, one could focus on increasing production across the range – the whole of conventional production – while at the same time striving to reduce the environmental impact. That's where I think the government's going wrong. There is a risk of getting stuck in a lock on a particular form of production that does not lead forward.
i-dd9b310e1c0f47af-690	Mr President, I would like to Swedish demand for organic food is increasing. We can make direct links between the possibility of meeting it with production in Sweden, with the opportunities for companies in Sweden that this holds, and the opportunities to meet one of the major problems we have in our environmental work through nutrition and production. One of the fastest negative trends is that of biodiversity in agriculture, and it is only one of the positive factors in organic farming. J ag chooses to focus on it because it is most obvious. I think it is strange to say then that it is better that those Swedes who want organic products should continue to buy imported goods, despite the longer transportation that means and the missed business opportunities for Swedish companies. I am incredibly happy that more Swedes choose to buy organically and to pay more for the environmental service it entails, and I see great opportunities to meet that demand with Swedish sustainable production.
