i-36d08cad3f457000-2	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that Mr Widman's naval fleet is manned by personnel deployed at war, which are necessary for combating by ground-based heavy coastal missiles. Heavy coastal robot is being reintroduced into the war organization as part of the maritime fleet of M Arin. According to the Swedish Armed Forces, there is the necessary competence in the naval fleets to man and tactically use the system. All military units must be staffed with war-placed personnel. According to the Swedish Armed Forces, the coastal robot unit with personnel and equipment from the turn of the year will be part of the war organization and thus be subject to the requirements of the Swedish Armed Forces regarding military deployment.
i-36d08cad3f457000-5	Madam President, I would like During previous terms of office for a number of years, I asked the then Minister of Defence Sten Tolgfors about when our Visby corvettes first went to do test shots with r obot 15. After a number of years there were also test shots. Now all of our Visby corvettes are prepared to be able to use r robot system 15, which is the same as heavy coastal robot. Of course, I thank the Minister for Defence for the answer to my interpellation. I will admit that the Minister for Defence is more evasive than his predecessor in delivering on the interpellations put in the Chamber. They are set many times with the aim of speeding up and pushing for changes. Heavy coastal robot is and was an extremely important weapon in the Swedish military defence. It is a weapon that can be fired at very long distances and with very high precision hit its targets. It therefore gives us the strategic advantage of being able to face a possible enemy very early on. When heavy coastal robot before existed in the Swedish defense there was the competence to build such blasts on Coast Artillery Regiment No. 2 in Karlskrona, KA 2. It was a former Social Democratic government that not only shut down the KA 2 but the entire coastal artillery. That is why it is now necessary to find a new place of residence for those weapons. The Secretary of Defense points out that it became the naval fleets. It's not just one, but our two naval fleets that are obviously supposed to have that ability. If it is now that heavy coastal robot will be organized as a war unit as early as January 1, 2018, which is only a few months away, it is of course first and foremost very good. But the task also leads to a supplementary question. If there is to be a war unit in less than two months, then it must already exist, I judge, a so-called war unit specification in place. Without such a military unit specification that tells you what the unit should be able to do, you can't control production properly, and you don't know which milestones and goals to achieve when practicing and carrying out war units exercises and other things. The military unit specification – if previously called TTEM, tactical technical e conomisk målage – is a necessity to be able, together with military unit exercises, to establish what we call a KDU value, a war value, on the unit. My supplementary question to the Minister for Defence is: is there already today a military unit specification established that can now be controlled by unit production?
i-36d08cad3f457000-12	Madam President, I would like All more detailed questions about the system may I refer to the Swedish Armed Forces to explain. That's their job. What we have to ensure is that, from the end of the year onwards, it will be armed with the position of war on the ersonal. By reintroducing the system into the Swedish Armed Forces, it will now be possible to shoot sea target robots, RBS 15, from land to sea at a large distance, thus increasing the flexibility and ability of sea target fighting. The system is built around the ship's target robot RBS 15. It's a robot type that's already in the Navy's sea-going unit as well as the Air Force. The former coastal robot batteries were independent units with their own sensors, wiring and protection. The coastal robot unit now being introduced forms an integral part of the naval forces, where the necessary skills are available for manning and tactical use of the system. The unit is made up of materials that have existed and are present in the vessel units. Robots, management systems, liaison systems and materials used by the naval forces and the ability to perform land-mobility are also present in the naval fleets. Coastal robot units will receive target data mainly from the surface combat vessels and other sensors. I myself have visited practice activities with coastal robot when it was introduced and when you had the first exercise. Tests have been carried out with full scale tests where RBS 15 has been fired and good results have been noted. This, of course, reinforces the various abilities that we have within the Swedish Armed Forces. I think it is a good step that we have been able to get to this point. For technical and more administrative issues in this context, please refer to the Swedish Armed Forces.
i-36d08cad3f457000-19	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Defence for the rich additional information he has now given in his second speech. The Secretary of Defense and I are clearly in full agreement on the value of this robot system, which will now exist in both the air, ground and naval forces. I also think it is a good thing that the fire management of the system will not be autonomous but integrated, primarily into the naval forces. However, I assume that it is also not excluded that it is also partly integrated with our air forces, which also have sensors suitable for use in the robot system 15, heavy coastal robot. I also have respect, of course, for the fact that the Minister for Defence is unable to state here and now whether there is a military unit specification. I can promise the Minister of Defence that I intend to put this question clearly to the Armed Forces as soon as the opportunity arises.
i-36d08cad3f457000-22	Madam President, I would like I don't really have much more to say than to confirm what Widman says about the air force. They are, of course, part of the delivery of target data.
i-36d08cad3f457000-23	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to avoid the long-established, unique and Swedish engine capability being outsourced to the United States. Mikael Oscarsson has asked me if it is in order for FMV to outsource such an important and unique military engine capability that we have at Gripen to the American company GE and whether it is in order that our unique engine data, which is currently with us in Sweden, should end up in foreign ownership. Mikael Oscarsson has also asked me if Swedish authorities have satisfactorily highlighted opportunities and risks in the procurement of larger systems such as energy solutions and general data management as well as future operations and maintenance to JAS Gripen E and if there is a risk that parts of classified information will end up abroad. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. Initially, I would like to remind you that all advanced Swedish fighter aircraft from J 29 Tunnan via J 35 Draken and J 37 Viggen to JAS 39 A/ D have received their engines mainly from American and British engine manufacturers. Sweden and Swedish defence authorities and companies thus have a long experience in handling this type of equipment and related defence confidentiality. With regard to the currently operating flight gmotor, RM 12, in JAS 39 C/ D, it is modified from an American original version in collaboration with Volvo Aero, now British-owned GKN Aerospace Sweden AB. The Swedish Armed Forces today provide the corresponding engine data to GKN to enable effective maintenance. JAS 39 E, on the other hand, is developed with a different cooperation structure between the companies involved than the JAS 39 C/ D engine. It is not a question of outsourcing, but of setting up a new business to ensure product support for a new engine on the basis of given basic conditions. The State has to ensure that the supplier of the engine's product support meets the requirements of security of supply, availability, cost-effectiveness and rationality as well as security of classified information. The Defence Materiel Administration is responsible for representing the interest of the State in the negotiations with the main supplier of JAS 39 E. When using JAS 39 E with engine F414, engine data will be generated and need to be submitted to industry for the same reasons as for the RM12 engine. As work is under way on defining a product support solution for engine F414, it is currently not possible to comment on details in this regard. To the extent that confidential information will have to be disclosed to foreign parties, this will be done within the framework of the applicable regulatory framework. Responsible authorities are used to handling large amounts of confidential information. As part of this management, safety analyses are carried out by the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration prior to procurements, and the Swedish Armed Forces and other relevant authorities participate in the preparation of these. Requirements for measures to protect the identified assets are compiled in a security plan that the supplier is required to comply with through so-called security agreements. I assume that the responsible authorities comply with the legislation in force and otherwise deal with these issues properly.
i-36d08cad3f457000-30	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Defence for the answer to mine and also to Mikael Oscarsson's interpellation. A little funnyness, I was about to say, is that Mikael Oscarsson does not come into the Chamber until now. It is good that he does so, for his interpellation has certainly been fully answered by the Secretary of Defense. The question is posed against the background of, among other things, the IT scandal that was discovered in the Swedish Transport Agency during the summer. The background is that in this context the Minister of Defence repeatedly – I do not know how many times – repeated that he personally was always opposed to outsourcing. Madam President, I would like This outsourcing is not just about sensitive data possibly coming to another country and to another country's industry. It is even more about the fact that the Swedish unique competence for aircraft engines was also outsourced. When all this activity, which has been conducted so far in Trollhättan, now moves to the United States, the knowledge, competence, experience and infrastructure that we have built up in Sweden for decades will gradually be destroyed. I would like to ask some sincere questions to the Government: Does the Government consider that access to the Gripen E fighter aircraft will increase as we move the entire business from Trollhättan to Jacksonville in Florida? Does the Minister of Defence decide that it will be cheaper for the Swedish Air Force and for the Swedish Armed Forces to move this entire operation and hundreds of jobs from Trollhättan to Jacksonville in Florida? And does the Minister of Defence really believe that the customization, i.e. the supplier's ability to meet the needs of the Swedish Air Force, will be better if the operations are conducted in Jacksonville in Florida than in Trollhättan? These questions have not been answered in the answer that the Minister of Defence has now read out. Finally, I note that the Minister for Defence says that, since work is under way on defining a product support solution for F414, it is not possible at present to comment on details. I would like to remind the Minister for Defence that this work has now been going on for almost four years, and there is no result. It is my assessment – and this is something that the Minister for Defence can agree with if he wants to – that this issue and the timing involved in this have now jeopardised the entire Gripen E project.
i-36d08cad3f457000-35	Madam President, I would like This air engine thing is something very important to discuss and something that we have reason to be proud of. Ever since we got a Swedish air force in the 1930s we have built up a competence in Trollhättan, where you have handled this in an excellent way. It should also be remembered that the engine accounts for maybe half the cost of a JAS plane. It is therefore a very important part. What has been handled in Sweden is that the engine has been taken out, looked at, repaired and taken long-term preventive measures. It would be interesting if the Government could provide information on what is left to do in Sweden. Is it just to take out the engine and split it into three, as the Secretary of Defense knows you do, look at it and then decide if it should go to America for repair? Or how does the Government see this going to happen in concrete terms? And is it not a little stupid, to say the least, that you do not work in the way you have done before and with the skills that you have for many years with the RM12 engines? It controls away the ability of Swedish operations to develop competence and ability in this matter. Actually, it's a little simplified so that when you switch these JAS engines to Gripen E, it becomes the new stag, but you also train the existing staff. The answer we got said this is a new business. How is this supposed to happen? Then we come back to the fact that this is something that we in committee were told about by the previous Director-General of FMV two years ago, when she suggested to the committee that this solution should correspond to what we have today. Then my question is: what has made this not valid now, but that it is a completely different approach, also given that we are still in a tough security policy situation? An important question is also whether there can be delays. It is already the case that many in the industry say that it is not long before JAS Gripen E is fully operational. Then there is a concern about the delays. There have been talks about looking at this and coming back, but nothing is happening. We come back to interpellation debates, both Allan Widman and I, and nothing is happening on this issue. Now the Government has a good chance to publish the text. How does the Government envisage solving this important issue?
i-36d08cad3f457000-40	Madam President, I would like A prerequisite in this was that the previous government and a broad parliamentary majority made the decision to develop JAS 39 E according to what was considered the most cost-effective option. Both gentlemen here pressed the button in this context, and I assume you were also informed that the conditions for engine management in this case were different from those for the C/ D version. It is therefore not a question of outsourcing, but the establishment of a new activity to ensure product support on the basis of certain basic conditions. The role of the state is to ensure that the suppliers of the engine's product support meet the requirements, firstly, in terms of security of supply, as you have mentioned here, and secondly, in terms of accessibility, which you have also mentioned. Cost-effectiveness and rationality as security protection for classified information are also included. The Defence Materiel Administration is responsible for representing the interests of the State in the negotiations taking place with the main supplier of JAS 39 E. Saab has a role in this, GKN and General Electric have other roles. I do not know what the previous Director-General of FMV informed the committee two years ago, but I can only note that there is a process going on. I have also taken this line with the current Director-General, and I understand that he is also scheduled for a meeting with the committee in the future – in November, if I am not wrong. Then he will have the opportunity to give his picture of this negotiation process. But it is also a question of the companies involved taking their responsibilities and financial responsibility in this context. We have followed this up on the part of the government and the state, but I believe that it is FMV who is responsible for the state and who operates in the interests of the state. It is also the FVM that will pass on any detailed information at the stage in which negotiations are concluded in this context. I want to be careful to comply with the rules so that you do not end up in other types of situations that may not be consistent with how this normally should work. When, in my initial reply, I have given a picture of what this has been like, it has been about engines from mainly American and British engine manufacturers. I would also like to remind you that the JAS Gripen aircraft comprises approximately half of American parts. The information on how the engine works, I think, is pretty clear. But I would also like to point out that the type of information that is classified and anchored on the Swedish side is not transferred by less than that normal security agreements, normal security plans and so on exist and that they are decided. Here our authorities have a lot of experience, and I have no reason to question that they would be able to handle this properly. I hope that these negotiations, even if they have been going on for quite some time, will be able to lead to a final result in the not too distant future and that we will then also be able to talk about exactly how this will be in one way and the other. There is committee information planned.
i-36d08cad3f457000-46	Madam President, I would like My interpellation and my question were based on the principled, or I would almost say the ideological, resistance that the Minister of Defence repeatedly expressed during the so-called IT scandal in the Transport Agency. He repeated: I am no friend of outsourcing. It is against this background that I would like an answer to my question, no matter what FMV eventually lands in or does not land in and what product solution it will be: Does Peter Hultqvist think it will be cheaper to solve this product support in Jacksonville in Florida than in Trollhättan? Does the Secretary of Defense think that there will be more availability when we have to send our aircraft engines across the Atlantic for repair? Will it be more accessibility than having the business in-house, not outsourced, here in Sweden? And what about customization? Will it be bigger for a very small customer in the big General Electric across the Atlantic? Will it be bigger or smaller compared to today? I have not received an answer to these questions. I'm interested in the Secretary of Defense's personal attitude towards outsourcing skills. No, I was not informed of the details of the procurement decision made in 2012. There wasn't for me on the map that we were going to locate engine maintenance and repairs to another continent. If I had known, I could say that I would have strongly opposed this. It is not in this way that the former Director General of the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration, Lena Erixon, has orally told one or the other to the committee. In a written letter, addressed to me as chairman of the committee, she told me two years ago that the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration is striving for a solution that means that GKN, formerly Volvo Aero, will have the same influence over the new engine, F414, as it has over today's RM12. Madam President, I would like On this point it is quite clear that at least the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration is now working in a completely different direction. Once again, I would like to say that Peter Hultqvist has made himself an interpreter for the view that outsourcing, i.e. handing over activities to private direction in other countries, is something that is not fundamentally good, not least from a safety point of view. Does Peter Hultqvist think that this job will be done better, safer, cheaper and more customized in Jacksonville, Florida, than in Trollhättan today?
i-36d08cad3f457000-53	Madam President, I would like It is nothing new that many civil actors are involved in JAS Gripen, which is Sweden's largest military project. That's the way it's always been. However, the information has been handled by Swedish defence companies in close cooperation with the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration. As it is today when it comes to the engine issue for JAS Gripen E, we are about to submit information about a very complex system of confidentiality to a foreign company. That is the situation we are going into. Then the question is, just as Allan was in the past: What is in the pot? Is it cheaper? Would it be better to transport it across the Atlantic? Where does the Secretary of Defense's driving force come from to push for outsourcing like this? It would be urgent to find out. I want to know how much of the procurement has been handed over to the procured company. I would also like to know how the various authorities are following up company procurement. It is important to look at what we actually get back and how it works, given the operational safety and the important expertise we have had in Sweden. How do you make it all go together? If we boil this down, it's important to know when we're going to find out what the solution is. It's been running out of time for years. Now it's another, untested solution. Then I come back to what I wondered before: does the Minister of Defence not see risks, if nothing else with delays? I also wonder about security of supply and accessibility when you put it on a private company. Are there not risks when it comes to this? The Minister for Defence says in his reply that it is not a question of outsourcing, but the establishment of a new business to ensure the product support of a new engine based on given basic conditions. So I do not get an answer when it comes to how the competence, that ability, should be preserved in Sweden. It is reasonably important for national interests, but it also applies – which the Minister of Defence is certainly thinking about or should at least bear in mind – to export successes for the company and jobs. This is particularly important for the tradition that has existed in Trollhättan since the 1930s. I don't think I got a real answer to the question. But now a new opportunity is given to straighten out the question marks about what is really to be done in Sweden. You can divide it into three parts. You can look at the engine, repair it long-term and preventive. Is it only the part that means that you should look at the engine and decide if it should go to Jacksonville in America that should remain in Sweden? I would like an answer to that question.
i-36d08cad3f457000-60	Madam President, I would like I do not know whether I can respond satisfactorily to Mr Oscarsson or Mr Widman in this context. I can only say that, as far as the industrial solution is concerned, the parties involved are now negotiating. FMV is the government representative. When that outcome of the negotiations is complete, it will be reported. The government will not interfere in the industrial negotiations on product support. If we do so, there is a great risk that there will be completely different discussions about the flow of money, which can both delay and cost the project. This door is therefore not open when it comes to making the State a direct party. It is FMV who represents us, and the negotiations are conducted between companies. And when it's done, it'll all be accounted for. It was an interesting wording from the letter from Lena Erixon that Widman presented. It leaves it open to different interpretations of what common influence means at the end of the day. And Oscarsson doesn't know what he's talking about when he says I'd run some kind of outsourcing line. It's nothing that you know about, Mikael Oscarsson, or at all has any basis to claim. I almost think you should apologize for that. As far as my view of outsourcing is concerned, it was in this context that it was mentioned that public activities are outsourced to private activities. None of these companies we are talking about are state or national. However, the history of engines is that we have bought foreign engines, and the Gripen project includes a large number of foreign, especially American, components. One can ask about Jacksonville back and forth and how many times to reach an audience effect. We will have to come back to all of this on the day we have a final solution to present and discuss. At the moment, negotiations are still ongoing. I have said this before: I hope that the negotiations will be concluded in the relatively near future and that all the cards can then be put on the table so that we can account for the work done. The committee has also booked the Director-General. That is the correct way to obtain information. FMV is the government representative. On this point, the committee has therefore made a correct assessment when it has invited the Director-General. These are difficult and complex issues. There are many stakeholders and many forces in this. Then it is important to balance all things, so that you minimize costs for the state and do not open up to the fact that the state's efforts are greater than necessary. You can always defend yourself by not knowing or not having the information. But in other contexts there should be responsibility for things that people did not have information about. You use the arguments a bit as it suits. Whoever has the government, no matter who, has to deal with this issue. I am quite sure that whoever had been the Minister of Defence in another government would have had to act in a similar way.
i-36d08cad3f457000-71	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that, indeed, the engines that Sweden currently has in its fighter aircraft are originally U.S. F404. But they were extensively adapted to, among other things, one engine's installation when Gripen C/D was supplied with these engines in the 90's. Whether we now have a basically Swedish or an American aircraft engine can be discussed for quite a long time. Peter Hultqvist has made himself known to many of the Swedish people as a person who takes the security policy situation very seriously. I would even say that he is not the minister who is prepared to dismiss the possibility that, in a future, Sweden may suffer a military conflict. When the decision to acquire Gripen E was taken in 2012, the security policy situation was quite different. This is why, towards the end of the debate, I would like to put the following question to the Minister for Defence: if we had known in 2012 where we stand today in terms of security policy, is it the Minister for Defence's assessment that a decision would still have been made which, on indirect roads, would now lead to the disappearance of Swedish aircraft engine capacity? Madam President, I would like The Swedish state is by far the most important part of the development project Gripen E; we do not get away from that. We should take our responsibility to ensure that it is as good a solution as possible. Today, Madam President, Peter Hultqvist was not opposed to outsourcing.
i-36d08cad3f457000-75	Madam President, I would like This issue has been discussed for four years. It has been said several times that a solution will be presented in the near future. But we have not seen it yet, and that is why we continue to ask questions. The Minister keeps saying that it is FMV who is responsible for the negotiations. But the question is running out of time, and you need to know. Today we are moving away from the model we have had. It ignores the expertise that exists in Trollhättan. It also ignores the fact that Swedish operations are excluded from future work in terms of development, competence and ability. If there is a crisis in this tougher security policy environment and if at worst a war breaks out, it makes a difference whether to get in line or if you have all three parts in the country – to take in the engine, look at it, repair it and have a long-term prevention. This engine is popular and used in many other aircraft. Does the Government not see that the security policy is a huge advantage that this has existed in Sweden for so long? Then the question is: Why outsource something that you can keep in Sweden?
i-36d08cad3f457000-78	Madam President, I would like I've explained how I look at outsourcing. It is a matter of public, government activities where I think it has gone too far in many contexts. We are now discussing an entirely different complex. Widman uses some rhetorical statements in other perspectives to use them politically. I just want it made clear. Then I will not take over the responsibility for negotiating this engine. It's FMV that's doing the job. Even if it had been a bourgeois Minister of Defence... based on such an election result... that person would have been forced to say exactly the same thing as I say. Otherwise, you step across the line and take over a responsibility that opens up completely different types of deep abysses and price images. Oscarsson has every right to ask his questions, but he gets no answer but that the hearing is ongoing. When it is completed, all effects will be accounted for. On the part of the state, it is in the future that is disobedient to all the balances that exist in this. I have previously explained the various points of availability, security of supply, security rating and functionality, quality and price efficiency. These are things FMV has to carry out in its role. I can see that we are doing this work on the basis of the conditions that exist and on the basis of what can be realistically achieved. That I should go in and speculate on what happened in 2012 and how we should have looked at things in a different perspective is completely uninteresting for the reason that it is not possible to turn the clock back and redo history. You yourself have confirmed this by saying that you were unaware of the content of the decision that you were involved in making earlier. Thank you very much.
