i-4d46c44ff974b017-2	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is doing well today in many ways. We are in the midst of a boom, companies in our country are generally doing well and those who have graduated from school and managed well are very likely to get a job. For many years Sweden has been high up in various measurements as our economy is developing and we have carried out the necessary reforms. This was particularly true during the financial crisis years and their consequences after 2008. Creating conditions for more jobs and growing companies but also strong incentives to work is important for us moderates. We want to create opportunities to go from not having a job to having a job. It should always pay more to work than not to work. That may sound obvious to most people, but that has not always been the case and that is not always the case. We tried consistently in the years we were in government to work on this basis. These ideas are also the basis for the proposals we are now making – of course adapted to today's Sweden and what it looks like today, because today, as I said, things are going very well for Sweden as a whole. Most of them are fine. However, there are also many, and unfortunately more and more, who are not doing well. It is those who are not in the labour market, those who have never been there, those who have a very long way to go to get there. It's about those who failed in school. It is about those who have slipped wrong and ended up in a situation that has led to exclusion. It is about many of those who are new in our country and whose thresholds into our labour market are particularly high. We see the new exclusion among those who have only been on the labour market for a very short time or have never been on the labour market. They're approaching 1 million individuals. Moreover, every day they get further and further away from the labour market. The new exclusion not only affects those who live in it. It affects us all. This requires a clear, concrete policy: a good industrial policy in which companies are allowed to grow and develop and thus be able to employ more, but also a labour market policy in which the thresholds are lowered for those outside the labour market. Sweden needs more highly qualified jobs, and we will compete with the help of cutting-edge technology and high skills. At the same time, we need more so-called simple jobs, that is, jobs that are not necessarily easy to perform but that have lower training requirements and require little prior knowledge. Sweden generally has very few simple jobs. In combination with the fact that we have great alienation creates this problem. Mr President, I would like to Training efforts and increases in skills are needed. However, for those who have a low level of education, who may have failed in school, and for those who have come here with very low education or even a lack of education and, in addition, our language is lacking, the thresholds for the labour market are very high. Then we need a policy adapted to that. The government talks a lot and says it wants to solve the problems. That's good. The problem is that there seems to be a long way between words and actions. It is so to say a lot of talk and a little workshop on the part of the government. Integration does not work in Sweden. It will be far too long before new arrivals come to work. Unfortunately, a lot of people never do. After eight years in Sweden, only half of those who come to our country have got a job. That's not good enough. The Minister for Labour and Establishment has made it clear that everyone should have a job or education within two years and that it is she who will fix it. It may sound cocky, and it comes from a often proud and satisfied minister with high tails on these issues. But it doesn't help when the results don't work. Strong reforms are therefore needed in order for more people to be able to do their own thing. Above all, demands for self-sufficiency need to be increased, and work should always pay more than living on benefits. These are supporting parts of the Moderate plan for a stronger Sweden, and this is clearly different from what the government and Ylva Johansson are doing. The government is expanding the benefit systems and making it less profitable to work. Labour market policy is a failure. Stefan Löfven promised 85 000 jobs and training places before the 2014 elections. To date, only less than 5 000 of these have been created. It can't seem to be anything but a mere fiasco. New start jobs introduced by the Alliance had already had a better impact in the first year and more jobs than the current government's combined labour market efforts have led to since it took office almost two and a half years ago. The main economic reform of the Alliance government for more jobs was the job tax deductions. They laid the foundations for many new jobs. Sweden is now facing a new situation where, as I have said, there are more and more people who are far from the labour market. In addition, many people have gone to Sweden with low levels of education as well as little or no knowledge of our language. It is a new form of exclusion compared to what we previously saw that has emerged, and the groups affected by the new exclusion often encounter high threshold effects when they take their first job. That is why we Moderates want to introduce the first job deduction, which is a clear tax relief for those with low labour income. We want to triple the successful RUT deduction, which has created many new jobs – to a large extent for people who get their first job in Sweden or their first job at all and for people who often have low or inadequate education. Here the government has done the opposite and reduced. A grant ceiling is needed so that it always pays to work, and there must be a requirement that the person living on a grant must also apply for a job outside the area where you live. The driving forces to move from grants to jobs should be clear. We want a job stimulus in the start-up allowance designed to mitigate the marginal effects of short assignments and part-time jobs, for example, which are often the first way into the labour market. At the same time, we want to increase the demands of integration. Compulsory education for newly arrived adults who do not have primary education is important for both integration and gender equality. We want demands to learn Swedish to be a central part of getting a permanent residence permit, and we want social orientation to be mandatory for real. We also want to streamline today's many employment support to one in order to simplify and improve. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, we can see that we have a government that talks a lot and promises a lot. At the same time, we see that the new exclusion is growing, that more and more people are far removed from the labour market and that, unfortunately, the government's political proposals in many situations lead to a deterioration of the situation and an increase in the thresholds for the labour market. We Moderates and the parties of the Alliance have a wide range of proposals on how we want to improve integration, strengthen employment policy and lower thresholds for more of those who are far from the labour market to get into it. Not least, we want to pursue a policy that leads to the growth of businesses and the creation of new businesses so that more jobs grow. We have a plan for a stronger Sweden, and it is time for a new government that can ensure that Sweden goes in the right direction.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-27	Of course, I would also like to support our reservations 4 and 12.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-28	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for our reservations 1 and 5 to be approved, that is what has been done. Mr President, I would like to When we discussed the corresponding report last year, I think I started by thanking the government for finally changing the name of the committee's spending area to Gender Equality and the establishment of newly arrived immigrants. For those who listen to this debate and allow themselves to be fooled by the label of this report, I can tell you that this is precisely about the establishment of newly arrived immigrants mainly in the labour market, not about integration in the sense that we will have a country that holds together and breaks the segregation that has spread in more and more parts of our country and also affects those who have been in the country for a long time. It's something that's important to have with you from the start. The reason I am raising this is that the whole report and much of the debate on integration and our divided society focus solely on the economic issues: how people who have come from another country and are in our country should get a job, or at least end up on the labour market in some form of employment. But well-functioning integration, a country that holds together, is built on so much more. It is based on human relations, on the fact that everyone who lives in our country, who is a citizen of our country, feels that this is my country and the other citizens are my citizens; we are part of the same society. It is also based on the fact that those who stay here temporarily, for reasons of work, protection or family reasons, until they feel that they want to apply for citizenship and both for themselves and for our society as a whole acknowledge that this is their new home country, complies with the laws and rules we have and gets respect for it – just as they respect our country. I am referring to this in the light of what is written about us in the first part of the report, paragraph 1. Among other things, they talk about the fact that the Swedish Democrats are the party that differs when they question the value of immigration and oppose the establishment efforts worthy of the name. 中 Establishment efforts worthy of the name, what are they referring to? It refers to a policy that has not worked so far, to money spent on subsidised jobs, to divisive measures that divide us by whether we were born in the country or come from another country. It is claimed that this has an effect, but it does not. We have seen that the efforts made have very little effect. It is further said that the party does not even have a very limited immigration policy, but also advocates re-migration, i.e. re-migration. that people should be able to return to their old countries in different ways. We are talking about people who have residence permits for temporary reasons. It is perhaps not entirely unreasonable, if there is peace in the country from which you once fled and the situation stabilises, or if you do not have the work you once came for, to feel a stronger connection with your former home country and then have the opportunity to return there. It is quite obvious to me that a sound migration policy, when talking about the long-term presence, should give as many people as possible the chance to live, work and live where they feel at home. At least that's what I want. Most of my life I want to live and work in what is my home country. That we then also give those who have actually linked to Sweden and shown that they have taken on our country and want to become Swedish citizens the opportunity to become that is a completely different issue. But from our party we believe that it should also be linked to citizenship. We see a big difference between residence permits and citizenship: Citizenship is a longer-term contract between the individual and the state in which citizenship is applied for and granted. With regard to the points relating to social orientation, I can take this opportunity to mention that we have the same ones that will be dealt with in the Social Security Committee. We link it to citizenship, with tests in social education and language skills. In the report we have a reservation that the law that was introduced that all municipalities should receive newly arrived immigrants according to a top-down distribution should be demolished and that we should return to the previous voluntary reception. The committee argues that our arguments are only a pretext for receiving as few people as possible in Sweden. I note that this has been said for a long time about our arguments on almost all issues relating to migration, and today we hear most of our previous arguments about what has not worked so far from both the blue and the red sides. I am eagerly waiting for the day when it will be realised that, even in the case of reception in municipalities, it goes without saying that voluntary reception, where municipalities themselves announce that they are actually able to receive a certain number, that they have citizens who are willing to do so, places and a well-prepared labour market, is what is required for integration to work properly. You cannot force a welcome, and you cannot force human relations. The current legislation certainly takes some account of past reception and labour market situations, but does not really set a ceiling based on the possibility. The municipalities are expected to have built homes several years ago because they should have realized that one day perhaps a lot of people will be forced to move there. That law will not be sustainable; it will never lead to effective integration. Furthermore, other parties in the committee have many in a way worthy of suggestions, like what the government is currently doing, about various efforts to strengthen knowledge of Swedish and how society works. However, they want this to start early, even during the asylum period and preferably in principle on the same day as they come to the country. This may seem reasonable given the length of processing times we have at the Migration Agency today. But is it really reasonable to spend enormous resources on such efforts when we have a minister who already spoke last year about the fact that about 80 000 of the asylum applications submitted will be rejected and that the people concerned will have to leave the country? Is it reasonable for the Swedish state, our budget and our taxpayers – and for the people who are here during the asylum period – to go through efforts to learn a language that they may then not benefit from at all? Our focus should reasonably be on allocating as much resources as possible to the Migration Agency in order to ensure legal certainty and rapid decisions early and then initiate efforts to teach Swedish and to give access to social orientation and so on, something that we otherwise believe should be mandatory, but as we have said in another report. Our second reservation in this report concerns entry-level jobs. We are the party that has proposed that they be abolished, and that is what is meant by our opposition to setting-up efforts worthy of the name. The committee argues that these are actions that can contribute to the creation of newcomers in the labour market. But there's no evidence of that. So far they have had no particular effect. Mr President, I would like to The committee is talking about making some changes. The overall picture of all subsidised jobs should be reviewed, and more training should be provided earlier. But as I said at the outset, it is more of the same policy that has not worked so far – a policy that will never work as long as it is not realised that integration is based on human relations. It is based on meeting the majority society, which does not happen as long as we divide into different groups depending on whether we are born here, have lived here for a long time or have recently come here. Efforts which also allow newcomers to get subsidised jobs while those who have lived here for a long time or are born here do not have the same opportunity will lead to increased conflict between groups. We are often told that we are the party that puts group against group, but in fact it is the other parties that think it is entirely reasonable to divide our population into groups based on origin and time in the country and to make a difference on the basis of this in terms of what is subsidised and not. That is what builds contradictions, creates frustration and unfortunately leads to a more fragmented society with aggression from both sides. Mr President, I would like to There's a lot to say. I have said a lot so far and I am convinced that we will have a long debate on this. At the moment, I am content with the comment that one of the foundations for well-functioning integration and for breaking up differences must be that we actually treat everyone equally.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-51	Mr President, I would like to Now we have heard a speech. This is a debate on integration. It is important that those who come to Sweden get to work as soon as possible. There are those who come to seek protection, and those who need protection, of course, we will offer this. Then it is important that we have a policy that ensures that those who come here have the opportunity to get a job. At the same time, one can read in statements from the Swedish Democrats and Paula Bieler that the Swedish Democrats continue to fundamentally oppose integration. It is not a very good attitude if you want the person who comes to Sweden to come in and become a part of our society. What is the policy of the Swedish Democrats and Paula Bieler so that those who come here can build a future in our country, become part of our country and contribute and develop?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-54	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Christian Holm Barenfeld, for the question! One can have a purely academic entrance to the issue, where integration is about both communities being adapted to create something new. There we are clear that we believe that a policy based on welcoming into the existing society is more reasonable. What we have also said is that integration as it has been designed in Parliament and in this report, where the label may be integration, but in fact it is about so-called creation efforts that make a distinction between group and group, is not something we can support. We do not support this so-called integration policy. On the other hand, last year we made a much broader effort with a clear focus on precisely efforts to strengthen the citizenship and cohesion of our country and to link not only those who come to our country and those who were born here, but also the city, the countryside and the elderly and the younger. It is about creating integration in the sense that the whole country will grow together. The problem with focusing on words and labels often becomes that you talk about different things although you have one word on it. I'd like to take this opportunity to ask you a question back. Among other things, the Moderates highlight – as we could hear in the speech just now – the need for simple jobs to face the fact that many people in our country now have a completely different background and may not have any education that fits the Swedish labour market. It may sound nice that you want to get everyone in and engage everyone, but what has worried me for a long time is that we risk getting a whole new lower class on an ethnic basis. I wonder how the Moderates believe that one should get away from this if one builds up simple jobs as the solution to the fact that people coming from other countries cannot enter the regular labour market.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-58	Mr President, I would like to I note that I did not get many concrete answers to what Paula Bieler and the Swedish Democrats want to do to improve integration. That's a lot of roundabout talk. As I mentioned in my speech, we have a series of proposals for improving integration. Simple jobs are not intended only for those who have come new to Sweden. There are also people who were born and raised in Sweden, with parents who were also, who for various reasons are far from the labour market. The idea is often that a simple job is a good entry into the labour market. Then the ambition is not that everyone should remain in the simple jobs for the rest of their lives. We could see it with the RUT reform, which is part of this with simple jobs. They are not always easy to carry out, and they are not always suitable for all services, but we could see that the reform led to many new jobs for young people who have not been on the labour market before, for those who have been far from the labour market and also for those who have come new to our country. I believe that a combination of us ensuring that jobs as a whole increase – both highly specialised and so-called simple jobs – is important both for improving integration and for reducing general exclusion. I would like to ask Paula Bieler once again: What concrete efforts does Paula Bieler want to make in order for those who come to Sweden to actually get into society, get a job and be able to become part of our society? You say at the same time that you are opposed to efforts to integrate, but it is quite clear that we need to strengthen integration in our country.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-62	Mr President, I would like to I can say at the outset that I am looking forward to proposals from the Moderates on how to further educate oneself in the course of the simple jobs and how to strengthen opportunities to enter education and training. In my world, Sweden is known for, among other things, that we want to invest in education and high competence rather than in having so-called simple jobs as the main means of subsistence, with large gaps in society. It's not something I want us to build in. As far as integration is concerned, we are opposed – I said this at the outset – to the policy that separates groups from each other. We have also made many suggestions to create more jobs. Among other things, we have wanted to review the tax system as a whole in order to increase the level of tax-free income, so that the first step can be taken into the labour market. It's something like that. They then automatically catch up with salary audits and the like. It is therefore not linked to the creation of a completely new sector. We also talk a lot about strengthened citizenship, efforts through culture to link up, show off what Sweden stands for and how we can welcome people into it. We are investing in projects that are open to all inhabitants of the country and all citizens. We are talking about social duty for all citizens, so that a clear link can be established between citizens and between states and individuals. If you, Christian Holm Barenfeld, want a proposal for a quickfix, like those that you in all the other parties tend to be quick to put forward with great pride – not infrequently you say you will solve integration within a few years – I have to tell you that it will not be possible. The segregation that has been built up in our country has been built up for decades – perhaps 20, 30 or 40 years. It will take a long time for this whole country to bridge the gaps that have been built up. As I have said all along, it is a question of human relations if you want a society that holds together. And human relations are not conjured up in a battle by an individual effort.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-67	Mr President, I would like to It is important to see how strongly positive migration can contribute to the recipient country. Well-managed migration means providing skills, strengthening trade and providing a variety of perspectives and backgrounds in workplaces, training and business start-ups. There are many examples of how immigrants, both in Sweden and in other countries, have carried crucial skills to bring society forward with their luggage and with the conditions in a new country. It is about students who have found ground-breaking results, about entrepreneurs who have laid the foundation for Swedish success stories, about folk educators, about business developers and about cultural personalities. But it's also about dentists, pizza bakers and flatteners. It is people's potential that we must strive to take advantage of, in every person who lives and works in Sweden. But we're not where we should be. Recent times have shown that Sweden's reception capacity has clear shortcomings. The establishment is not working. For many born abroad, there is no work, no education and no housing. It takes too long to become a part of society, and systems have been allowed to swell so that migration entails large public costs. The Center Party is behind the migration agreement that we concluded in October. We were six parties that made that deal. We are always prepared to cooperate widely in order to reach further agreements. Sweden needs broad agreements on migration policies and other areas to strengthen reception capacity, but it would also be necessary to improve integration, to shorten processing times and reduce costs and to maintain transparency in a sustainable way. Today it is Integration, AU6, we are debating. Mr President, I would like to Since we see that it is not working as it should or can do, we in the Center Party are prepared to take a lot of action. In our exercise Better reception and faster establishment and in our budget exercise there are many suggestions, as a whole as well as in small ones. The government is welcome to get inspiration there. I can only make a few brief points. It is about reforms of the labour market, the housing market and reception systems – larger and long-term. It's about entry fees, entry jobs and entry companies. It is extremely important to ensure that we have a good business environment. That is the prerequisite for us to have a labour market that seeks more labour. The Center Party would also like to see the establishment responsibility transferred to the municipalities, so that they already have the opportunity at an early stage to start the journey towards actually integrating into Swedish society. We think that the main rule should be that you have to start working from day one. It is both about internships and about the possibility of having a job. We need to ensure that we facilitate the payment of salaries to asylum seekers. We also see the possibility of changing tracks to labour migration. Those who are attached to the labour market in respect of employment or who have been refused an asylum application shall have the opportunity to change their tracks. This also applies if you start higher studies. We also believe that we need to open up the market to more simple jobs. I'll get back to that later. As far as Swedish education is concerned, we see the need for a reform that opens up the possibility for more actors to participate in creating SFI educations. It should be more occupational and closer to the labour market. As an asylum seeker, you should be able to choose which actor to read SFI with. We have seen that folk high schools have a very good business. We think it is important to have them very close in this work. We would like to see language studies started seriously already during the asylum process. Validation is another part. Part of the work is ongoing. It is about validating educations that people bring with them. But it is perhaps even more a question of developing the work. How do we validate the knowledge that humans bring? It may not always be about education but about actual knowledge. In the field of education, we need to ensure that we create vocational training even for those who do not have a secondary school degree. We need to look at how to ensure that there are teachers. Social Services also need staffing. Perhaps we need to think about how we do this in a transitional phase when we have a high and heavy load. We have seen that civil society is extremely important. The study associations are doing a fantastic job. Give them even better opportunities to do so! Associations and volunteers do horsework around the country. Make sure they have additional responsibilities and additional opportunities to do that particular work! Improve opportunities for civil society to contribute to integration and participation in society! These are some of the points we have in our motion. More is available for those who wish to read. Then you can think of something. We see that a lot needs to be done, and we propose a lot of things. Then what does the government do? Yes, it removes the possibility of having an internship during the asylum period. What's the plan there? I'm excited to hear it from the government representatives. The possibility of getting a foot in the early stages, getting something to do and starting to make contacts in working life is being pushed away. This effort and measure delay and make establishment difficult. On behalf of the Center Party, we say that we want the opportunity to allow work from day one. The possibility of an internship is to be reintroduced. We also need to reduce the cost of hiring. How does the government view this? Mr President, I would like to Of all the proposals of the Center Party, not many government parties choose to respond at all. It is a proposal on which they are, on the contrary, very many. As everyone understands, I do not support the committee's reasoning on so-called simple jobs. The Center Party believes that substantial reform efforts are needed to avoid growing exclusion. A new line of work is needed in migration and integration policies that remove bureaucratic barriers and thresholds into the labour market, as the Swedish labour market is divided into two. The result of Sweden's high entry wages and high taxes for hiring is that only relatively high productive jobs remain, as hiring someone entails high wage costs. The simple jobs disappear from the workplace and have been doing so for a long time. The result is that Sweden has the EU's lowest share of so-called simple jobs, i.e. jobs without educational requirements. The difference is particularly marked compared to countries with similar levels of education and welfare: Denmark, Germany and the Netherlands. We can compare Sweden with those countries. There are far more simple jobs in those countries than here in Sweden. New arrivals and those with short education become unemployed to a greater extent than others, and Sweden has the lowest share of simple jobs. There are two phenomena that are connected. One reasonable reaction to this observation, that some people seem to have too low or uncertain productivity to be employable, is to try to change it through training efforts. Such efforts will be needed in a great deal, in many places and in different ways. But that will not be enough. We will not be able to offer education and training to the extent necessary to meet the challenge facing the Swedish labour market. Nearly half of the participants in the start-up assignment in June 2016 had the highest upper secondary education. Raising the level of education of all these people to the equivalent level of upper secondary or higher education is not realistic. The government parties have said many words in the committee's position that one cannot imagine simple jobs. What, then, is your solution instead? I would like you to give me a few words about this in your speeches. Mr President, I would like to At the moment, large relocations are taking place within the country. The Migration Board emptys certain accommodations and fills others. The people who have been able to get to know people in the surroundings and started the journey towards becoming a part of society are now being pulled up from the football team, from their practice or from the families who have entered as sponsors. One could theoretically think about how to make the integration process more difficult – on pure ass. I wonder if this is not one of the more effective methods. In addition to the vulnerability and inhumaneness to which asylum seekers are subjected, this also detracts from the confidence in the state's actions of all those people who have spent many voluntary hours. The accommodation at Kroppefjäll in Mellerud is an example. People in civil society have become involved in the refugees through language cafés, clothing collections – you name it! Houses have been renovated for families to have a place to move. Practice has been arranged. People have been brought to their workplaces and started to build lifelong ties. Now these people are being pulled up and moved elsewhere. At the other end there are accommodations that are currently being filled up, as in Hultsfred, which I visited on Monday. Hultsfred has gained 688 new citizens over the past year – it is a municipality with 14,000 inhabitants. It's the municipality that's grown the most. There, the Migration Agency continues to replenish its accommodations despite the fact that the municipal management is praying and asking to be part of the apartment portfolio for all those who are now settling there. The Finnish Immigration Service's actions are not conducive to integration at any point. Are the government parties satisfied with how to act, or are they prepared to take action? Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all the reservations of the Center Party, but I only ask for the winning approval of reservation 2.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-89	Mr President, I would like to It's cold times. I am already apologizing for my vote. I hope it lasts for a few minutes. Mr President, I would like to Integration or inclusion is for the Left Party that all of us, Swedish-born or immigrant Swedes, are given the conditions and rights to have the same standard of living and life chances. It is about freeing people's future from the background that people have, and thus having a life on equal terms with equal opportunities. Having a job and an income are often crucial for a resident to have a standard comparable to that of a native person of the same age. At the same time, however, integration is much more than jobs. Integration is also about housing standards, about health, about longevity and about equal opportunities for people to offer their children good growing-up conditions, good chances in life and freedom. When discussing integration, one needs to distinguish between what is commonly called the big integration policy and what is commonly called the small integration policy. Although Sweden can and should be even better at creating an equal standard of living and life chances for new immigrants as for those who have lived here for a long time, Sweden is a country that, by many measures, has been successful in integrating immigrants. As several migration researchers have shown, only part of this success can be explained by actions specifically targeted at new arrivals and other foreign born. Targeted actions such as language teaching or validation are the policy of integration, and many of the proposals we are debating here today form part of the policy. But Sweden's real recipe for success is the It is the one that seems inclusive to the vast majority of the population during different parts of life. It is therefore about the welfare and social security system that will create good conditions throughout life – from childcare and education systems to health care, unemployment and health insurance and access to housing and welfare services such as libraries and culture. That is the great work we have done. Mr President, I would like to So it is not possible to talk about integration without also talking about general welfare – the great integration policy. The Left Party wants to see a rights-based refugee reception that takes its starting point precisely in the general welfare. The reception of people on the run, from the asylum process to the housing and establishment of society, must be characterised by a perspective in which individual people's opportunities for an equal and equal life, free from discrimination, are at the centre. This means that together we create a society that provides all the conditions for equal living conditions and opportunities – a society that stands up for people who live and work here to have good rights and opportunities. General welfare is central to upholding the rights that it is our duty to protect. It is also through these two building blocks that we create the fastest and most effective opportunity for newly arrived people to enter Swedish society. Mr President, I would like to After its eight years in power, the Alliance left a wealth eroded by tax cuts. As a result, Sweden was quite poorly equipped to handle that many people came here in the autumn of 2015. In retrospect, we can see that we managed it, thanks very much to the efforts of the non-profit forces. The challenge we now face is to give the people who have gone to Sweden to escape war and oppression good opportunities to start their new lives here. We will meet that challenge too, but how successful we are now depends entirely on the decisions we are making. The key to Sweden's success has never been lower wages or worse conditions than in other countries. Our strength has been to invest in society and in each other: in education, housing, health and equality. This is how Sweden develops and grows. It shows our whole modern history. Earlier generations got better education and better jobs while we got more. This was possible thanks to long-term profitable investments. We need to learn from this even today. The Government, in cooperation with the Left Party, has implemented a series of reforms that facilitate the establishment of new arrivals, but we would have liked to see more and greater efforts both on the major integration policy in the form of an expanded and strengthened general welfare and housing building and on the small integration policy in the form of increased investments in Swedish from day one. To do so requires a redistributive policy in which the richest of society contributes more. It's as simple as that. Mr President, I would like to So today's debate is about integration, but it is not possible to talk about integration without also talking about migration policy. When we make laws that make it more difficult to stay in Sweden, which makes the residence permit temporary and divides families, it will affect the opportunities to establish and integrate into society. Security, Mr President, is the best foundation for building a new future. Laws that divide families and put people's lives on hold must be demolished in order to create the conditions for better inclusion. Mr President, I would like to It is not possible to talk about integration without talking about racism and discrimination. The Left Party wants a society in which our gender, where we were born, and our parents' class background do not control our opportunities in life – freedom, again! Unfortunately, the government's migration policy has come to be inspired by another political vision. A policy that says that certain groups are not welcome here also has consequences for how people are treated in society, primarily for those who no longer have the right to protection from war and oppression, but also for those who have already been protected. This is how social differences are created, class society is maintained and racism is reinforced. When government representatives and large parts of the bourgeoisie say that the country is full, that we cannot cope with more and that we are faced with a coming system collapse, the people who come here are portrayed as a threat instead of discussing a solution and a political way forward. Such a division affects everyone who in some sense is seen as a new one in Sweden, even if they have lived here for generations. We know that, because unfortunately that's how we look at each other. The consequences are seen in burning asylum homes, in hate crimes and in an increasingly crude and racist tone in the social debate. Asylum seekers are suspected, and it is most evident in the debate on unaccompanied minors. As far as this is concerned, Mr President, we all have a great responsibility that I wish we would take. A person with a Swedish-sounding name has more than 50 percent more chance of being called for a job interview than a person with a Middle East or North African-sounding name. Discrimination is a major obstacle to the ability of foreign-borns to establish themselves in the labour market and to receive fair treatment in society at large. Combating discrimination is about changing prejudices and prejudices. It is not an easy task, but a task that must be taken very seriously. The Left Party believes that they must cost discrimination. Public employers should take the lead in anti-discrimination work by using requirements profiles and seeing multilingualism and cross-cultural skills as merit in employment. Mr President, I would like to It is not possible to talk about integration without talking about equality. Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries, but we still have a lot to do. Pay differentials, men's violence against women, discrimination and unpaid work at home remain major challenges for Swedish society. Gender equality can never be taken for granted. Feminist struggles must be fought every day and everywhere. That is how we have reached where we are today, and that is how we build a fairer and more equal Sweden. Childcare, special taxation, parental insurance and access to housing are some of the most important building blocks in Swedish gender equality policy. Pointing fingers at others that we consider less equal does not make Sweden more equal. Instead, we must see the role of politics in the destruction of patriarchal patterns and structures. The Left Party takes patriarchal structures and inequality seriously. When they are used as bats in the debate to suspect refugees, it damages both equality and racial currents. With a feminist migration policy we can ensure a dignified and inclusive reception, where all people have the same opportunities to get to Sweden and the same opportunities to establish themselves here. Mr President, I would like to The Finnish Immigration Service has established that the heterosexual man is the norm in their efforts. We see that the files are drawn up on the men when the families come, as well as the men receiving the credit cards and being contact persons. Arbetsförmedlingen's analyses show that women take part in the agency's establishment assignments to a lower extent than men. It is therefore important that the activities of these authorities are analysed and examined in order to ensure a more equal reception. Mr President, I would like to What distinguishes the Left Party from the other parties in this House is that we see the importance of what is great and what is small in collaboration, how migration policy, racism, gender equality, welfare and inequalities in society work together in terms of the opportunity for people who come to Sweden to establish themselves in the new home country. That is why we sometimes reach different conclusions and answers to the questions than the other parties. In right-wing Sweden, the richest should never have to pay to improve the lives of the most vulnerable. Tax cuts are always more important than investments in welfare – investments in all of us. Private companies' opportunities to profit from our common property must never be hindered by the ambition to create an equal and fairer Sweden. That is basically why the Right cannot pursue a humane and welcoming refugee policy. If you do not want to invest in a strong welfare in the major integration policy, the reception will not be as strong and comprehensive or the society fair, equal and inclusive. As long as the Red-Green Government refuses to do anything about the tax system that the Right has rigged to benefit the richest, the major improvements to the reception system will be avoided and the gaps in society will persist. Despite the fact that the Social Democrats have identified the gaps in Sweden as the biggest problem we have today, the major economic proposals to do something about it are missing. That is why the Left Party will continue to push for an economy that benefits us all and can give us the freedom we want and not just the richest. Mr President, I would like to With this, I support all the reservations of the Left Party, with a certain amount of clout, but for the spirit of time I only ask for the approval of reservation No 3.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-118	Mr President, I would like to It is always interesting to hear the cooperation party of the cooperation government The Left Party be so critical of the government with which it cooperates. In fact, it is you who are laying the foundations for this government to be a government. I have some comments on what was said. There was much talk about welfare. Both the Moderates and the Alliance believe much in welfare. But the welfare is built by something. It is normally built by companies and their employees, what they produce and the surplus. Some of it is paid in as taxes from both our wages and from our companies. That is the basis for our prosperity. You can't start building welfare without something to build it off. Therefore, when you see what kind of politics Christina Höj Larsen and the Left Party want to drive, it arouses a certain amount of surprise. It is not exactly job-creating policy. This discussion is also about integration and the new arrivals in our country. From the Moderates' side, we say we want a first job. This means lowering the thresholds to the labour market. They are allowed both to work and to train, because it contains training. In addition, we make sure that those who work keep a lot of money before they pay the first crown of tax just to keep the disposable income. In addition, Christina Höja Larsen talks about gender equality. At the same time, we can see that one of the important reforms that has made sure that many women have entered the labour market, many women have started new businesses, and very many of them have come from other countries, the RUT reform, says Christina Höj Larsen no till. We also want to introduce what we call education. It is also an important part of gender equality policy. Then both women and men will have to participate. Christina Höj Larsen also says no to that.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-122	Mr President, I would like to That was a perfectly correct analysis of what I say no to. It's nice and good that the message goes forward. What is interesting about the Moderates when you talk about companies and what is produced is precisely the question of profits in welfare. There is a question in which the state and the taxpayers together have some large sums of money where we have thought together: this is going to the preschools. This is going to the schools. This is going to health care. Then, together with the Alliance government, the Moderates have rigged a system where companies can lower their tabs in our tax chest and take what they want. Is it the type of company we should have, and what is it produced there? For the Left Party, it is absolutely crucial that when we spend money together, they should go exactly to what we said they should go to. It's not for the Moderates. We now see that the Swedish Democrats are also sympathetic to the companies' idea of this. It's absolutely true that I don't think it should be that way. It's important that we do things together. With regard to the RUT deduction – or the RUT grant, as I can honestly call it – which goes to many of the most well-off in society, we would like to give our money a different priority. We know that there are many social tasks that need to be carried out. They can't be executed, precisely because the money goes to the wrong thing. Rather than allowing people to clean in wealthy private homes, we want more hands in care. We want it cleaned up in the hospitals. There are plenty of tasks, and they are the ones to be performed. The fact that the Moderates and we divorce there is no surprise.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-126	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that it is very much about what the Moderates want to do. That's good, because we want to do a lot and do a lot of good. It is an interesting view of all the people who are in and working in the domestic sector with RUT services. It was a sector that went from black to white. This means that those who work there have insurance and better working conditions. They have also had many more colleagues because it has improved. Personally, I have very hard to see that it would be a less nice job to clean someone's living room or kitchen than to clean in a dirty workshop, because that's no problem. I think that all jobs are needed and that everyone is important. When it comes to welfare, it goes without saying that the most important thing is that we have good quality. If someone for the same money manages to do things well and gets something over, I don't see it as a problem. On the other hand, I see it as a major problem and a challenge when we have sectors that in many situations are tax-financed and run in public and which are bleeding money. Of course, they do not deliver profits. It costs money, and they may not deliver quality either. My conclusion is that no matter who runs and controls a business – whether it is private, public, cooperative or whatever – the important thing should be that the policy focus is that the money spent should go to quality and that we should have requirements for what is delivered. When it comes to integration, we need a strong welfare. But we need jobs so that people come to work whether they were born in Sweden or elsewhere. For that reason, we need to lower the thresholds into the labour market. The RUT deductions are part of it.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-131	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that the Moderates immediately begin to talk about which people are fine or not. It would never occur to me to think about who's fine or who's not. What interests me is: How do we prioritise the use of our tax money? There are plenty of things to do in Swedish welfare. We know that cleaning in hospitals and in public environments is substandard. We know that there is a lack of staff in care for the elderly and also in health care. There are plenty of tasks, and we want to choose to prioritise them. The Moderates consistently choose – historically, then as now – to give priority to those who already have. That conflict will always remain. As for the question of whether the sector turned more white than black, that is not the case. We're still seeing a lot of black work in it. It is a question of not wanting to pay for the work done. We think that is important and reasonable. It is precisely because we think that tasks are important and that no one is worse than anyone else that we also think you should pay for what is done.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-134	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I have to relate to the debate we just had on welfare gains, not least because we also had a small boot in some replica shift. I can only say that the Left Party will consider that none of the activities funded by tax revenue should be allowed to make profits whether it is about building roads, supplying equipment or anything like that. It is always tax money that is used. It's a little refreshing to hear someone else stand in the speaker's chair and discuss integration and confirm that it's not just about work and economy, but it's how to connect and make the whole society function that's the important part of integration. The fact that we have very different views on how to achieve this is another thing, but it is nice that there are more of us who can agree that it is about much more than just the economic aspects. In her speech, Christina Höja Larsen stated that you cannot talk about integration without also talking about migration. We have also pointed this out for a long time, but it is a typical issue in which we have completely different views on what needs to be addressed. My question is based on what happened in 2015. At that time, most of the other parties in this House realised that there are limits to what our society can achieve in order to have a well-functioning reception – although we also have differing views there on what a well-functioning reception is. Does the Left Party at all see that there is such a conflict, and does it realise that some kind of regulation is needed? The biggest problem according to Christina Höj Larsen seems to be that there are regulations and that they try to ensure that they are complied with.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-139	Mr President, I would like to Since the Swedish Democrats have clearly shown that they are for sale for little dinners and shareholdings, it may be appropriate to explain why welfare services are not comparable to roads, sheets or something like that. Citizens are not goods. If we buy a road for common tax funds and it is not good, what do we do? Well, let's break it up and create a new one. But if we put our kids in a school and that school prioritises the percentage of teachers and is so eager to get many high-performance students that it raises their grades without foundation, our kids will stand without a good education. The nine years can't be broken up and retaked. It's serious. People in our society are not goods that anyone can trade and profit from. People in our society are citizens to be taken seriously. That is the difference between right and left, and here SD has clearly stood on the side of the elite because, badly hidden, you are a party for the elite.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-143	Mr President, I would like to I didn't get an answer to my questions, so they're still here. Does the Left Party believe that there are any restrictions whatsoever as a result of a large reception in our country? Does the Left Party believe that there should be rules and that these rules should be respected? According to Christina Höj Larsen, the main problem seems to be that we have regulations. I hope to have an answer to that. I hear Christina Höja Larsen's answer about welfare that it is not at all about tax money going to profits but about the quality of what is delivered. Numerous studies show that quality is not determined by whether the performer is public or private. There are both public and private providers who deliver poorly, and there are both public and private providers who deliver well. Before the elections, we agreed to have much clearer quality requirements because the quality and the most efficient use of our tax resources is important. To constantly tear up and build new ones would not be good and would cost much more money than to build a good road from the beginning – to tie in with the first example. If you have to tear it up, it has taken a lot of tax money for nothing. As I said, this is a separate debate. What I want answers to is: Are there limitations? Is integration affected by how many people come to our country? If so, what does the Left Party want to do to keep it at a reasonable level so that we can guarantee a worthy name?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-148	Mr President, I would like to What I was trying to explain is how the big is connected to the small and that people are not the same as goods. I understand that this is a difficult debate for a party that is for sale to the highest bidder. When I listen to the Alliance, and especially when I listen to the SD, I think of a really bad magician who, with one hand, waved the handkerchief and always pointed at those who just arrived while he with the other hand sneaks the coins into his pocket. That's exactly what you're doing, because you're for sale. As everyone knows, the Left Party is in favour of regulated immigration. We have laws and rules. The Swedish democrats have long made it sound like they have been open doors. That is not the case. People have been forced to return for many years. A lot of people have been turned down. The Left Party is behind this, too. The question is how do we do it? Are we going to do that by chasing people? Are we going to do that by removing their compensation? We know it doesn't work. It does not create a secure society or security for those who are to return. For me, it is important that we have a legal and good system. If I see that the government adopts laws that make integration worse, through, for example, family fragmentation and temporary residence permits, I and the Left Party will protest, because these laws worsen the whole situation. The fact that we then need a completely different responsibility internationally and within the EU is another issue. But you are not interested in discussing this, because you want to let people stay in Lebanon and so on.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-154	Mr President, I would like to I noted that the Left Party, in a previous change of line with empas, accused other parties of being for sale. It really comes from the right party. The Left Party was for decades for sale and sold itself to the Communist International and was even a section of the Communist Party in Moscow. Enough about that. Mr President, I would like to Our country faces enormous challenges. We can have a hard polemic in the Parliament's pulpit, but we must be humbled by the fact that our country is facing a number of great difficulties. Liberals welcome immigration. We think it is important that Sweden takes responsibility and stands up for people in need. We also think it is important that people can come here and work – just as we expect to be able to go to other countries and work there. At the same time, Sweden is a small country, and in order for us to have the capacity to have a functioning society, we also need to have a labour market, a housing supply, a social service, a justice system and so on that keeps up with and copes with large refugee flows when it burns around the world. Autumn 2015 showed with the desired clarity that in many parts of Sweden it was possible to do so, but in a number of places it was a very great strain. This means that we have a number of major challenges in the labour market, in education and elsewhere that we have to deal with in the coming years. A challenge is the increasingly two-way labour market. We get a more two-way labour market between native and foreign born. We will have a more two-way labour market between women and men. We also have a more two-way unemployment between those who are unemployed for a short time and those who are unemployed for a long time. One reason for this is that we have built our labour market on the idea that we should not have so many so-called simple jobs with low qualification requirements. Such jobs we think we do not need in Sweden. Instead, we want to channel the workforce into more productive and efficient sectors of the economy. This has guided Swedish labour market policy for decades. Basically, it's been good. It is just that we now have a situation where we have more and more people in the country who are unemployed and who do not have basic educational qualifications that make them employable in Sweden. We simply have a large group of people who do not have education. At the same time, we have a labour market that focuses mainly on those who are educated. One solution to this is that people study more. That's good. That's what we're gonna do. We will improve our adult education, our supplementary education and our Swedish education, and we will introduce vocational education and much more. But that will not be enough because many people will not be able to sit on the school bench for ten to fifteen years when they have come to Sweden or maybe have several children and are in their 30s to 35s. We need to open up our labour market to jobs even for those people who do not have much education with them, who do not know the language well and who do not have so many networks in Sweden or qualifications to showcase. These are people who are very fragile and find it much harder to get a place. That is why, Mr President, we in the Liberals have proposed a new form of employment that we call a start-up job. There are other variants of this type of proposal by other alliance parties. We notice very clearly that all the expert bodies – the Economic Institute, the European Commission, the OECD, the IMF, the Financial Policy Council, the SNS Economic Council, the Labour Market Economic Council and so on – who examine Sweden and look at our labour market state the same thing, namely that the high entry wages that we have in Sweden make integration difficult. That is why we need to open up our labour market more so that the large group of people who do not have education is given a chance to enter our labour market. For example, women who have come to Sweden take between nine and eleven years before half of them have entered the labour market – half! For men, the corresponding figure is between three and five years. There are huge differences in the integration process between foreign-born women and men in Sweden, which is not reasonable for a country that has clear ambitions in the field of gender equality. Mr President, I would like to I would like to raise another issue that is important for integration, namely how our schools operate. We have a growing segregation in Sweden – we know that. This segregation is largely a consequence of our residential segregation. This means that in the areas where many newly arrived and born abroad live, the challenges in schools are very great. This means that a larger proportion of the children who come to Sweden – those who have been forced to flee here or as immigrants here of their own free will – end up in schools that already have very heavy challenges. In a class at, let's say, middle school averages 25 to 30 students. If one or two people come from Syria into such a class, that is not a big problem. These young people will learn Swedish and get into it quite quickly. It's hard at first, but it's going to go pretty well. However, if there are five, seven or ten pupils who do not know a word of Swedish and who are almost landed in a Swedish school class, it will be very difficult to manage to give these young people reasonable opportunities to move forward in their studies. This means that many other young people in these schools switch to another school and opt out of these schools. Mr President, I would like to I and my party believe that if we want the school to work in Sweden also for the newly arrived students, we must have a much more even distribution of where the newly arrived children and young people are going to school. There must be a much more even distribution. It is unreasonable for only a few schools to take a major responsibility. We know which municipalities – they are already facing major social challenges. Another thing is that if we have problems of order as great as we have in many of our schools, it affects the newly arrived boys and girls particularly hard. They are in more need of extra support, teacher-led teaching, peace and quiet, and they are in more need of the school being characterized by a safe environment. They have experienced things before, and they have a greater need to learn things because they don't know the language and so on. If we cannot tackle the problems of order in the Swedish school, where there is complete chaos in some places today and where many students feel insecure, we will not be able to meet the integration challenges. It's connected. It's not all about money, someone said before. That is very true – not everything is about money. It is also about the values and attitudes that characterise our education and about giving all these children and young people good opportunities to have a good life in Sweden. I apologise, Mr President, for having oversold my speaking time.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-176	Mr President, I would like to We are debating integration. It is an issue that affects those people who long to become part of our society, not just politicians in Parliament. It is an issue that is discussed extensively at home at the kitchen tables, at the parties I attend, in the sports association and in the queue at Konsum or Ica, if you shop there. It is discussed at the parents' meetings or other meetings you attend. Integration is being discussed everywhere. Here in Parliament, all – no, Mr President, almost all – parties are eager to find proposals and solutions that they believe will lead to better integration. It is a policy that gives people the opportunity to get housing, work and education. The solutions differ depending on ideology, but most of us have solutions that we feel confident about will give people the opportunity to start their lives and become part of our society. These solutions will also help to reduce the contradictions in our country and give people the opportunity to develop society and take responsibility for our common welfare. As I said, there is no common solution for successful integration. This is evident not least when we read motions and reservations today. There are many suggestions and different ideas, thoughts and solutions. Mr President, I would like to There's no answer. Some say that lower taxes and lower wages are the key to successful integration, while we Social Democrats are absolutely convinced that knowledge builds Sweden strongly. Swedish and social studies during the asylum examination period are of course a good start. The key is the Swedish language, and knowledge of society is important and crucial. There are only good experiences of the work that is now being done when the establishment starts from day one. We invest in education, education, education. Knowledge will always be the best prerequisite for getting a job. It's clear in the statistics. Regardless of where you were born, it is the person who has knowledge who has the best prerequisite to enter the labour market and get a job. More people are already setting the clock. You take the bus to work, school or practice. More and more people are on the bus on the road to employment. But more – many more – must and will have the chance. I'm gonna give you a chance to start your life. Of course, everyone who can contribute to the labour market should do so. It is when the door to the labour market opens that the opportunity to start a life opens. It is work and income that gives the opportunity to buy that house or sign that rental contract for the apartment that the family so badly needs. Doors must be opened, and knowledge must be taken care of. Some experiences need to be complemented by training. The conditions differ, and that is why we need a battery of measures adapted to the person. Individual solutions and individual plans are crucial for successful integration. An equal labour market was discussed here last week. The labour market of women and men is not equal, whether in terms of wages, working time measures or career paths. The unequal labour market affects women hard, and not least women in the start-up phase. We have an uneven distribution of labour market interventions in the start-up phase, and women's opportunities really need to be improved. The government has a focus on the problem. Like many other important actors in society, the government focuses on inequality, where women's situation in the labour market needs to be strengthened. We have a job to do, Mr President. There are also good examples. There are fast tracks for teachers and fast tracks for health professionals, which are going on around our country. It is a fantastic method that takes advantage of people's skills, equips them with sufficient knowledge, takes advantage of their experiences and takes advantage of the desire people have. At the same time, workers are being acquired for the shortages that we have in society. Fast track is a successful model. I am sure that all of you, like me, meet many people with a huge drive, who are doing a good job of successful integration. Last Monday, for example, it was fantastic employers in Landskrona who told us about their work. I also met entrepreneurs in Landskrona who contributed in various ways to give their picture of both solutions and challenges when it comes to integration. Last week I was in Härnösand. There was an impressive team of volunteers who contributed in various ways to better integration and to help people become established in society. That's what it looks like around our society. Like I said, you all see it for sure. It is amazing to see the love, knowledge and experience that people so much want to share, both in their professional roles and as volunteers in civil society. It is a pity that this good work is not given the same space in the media as a lot of other things. That's a real shame. But one thing is certain: these are not alternative facts. Since many new arrivals are of working age and have both education and experience, it is important that we map out what people carry with them. The use of asylum time is, of course, important. As I said before, it is not only important for people to learn the language and learn how society works. It is also important to map people's experience and knowledge and to map what people have with them. We have many shortages in our country, and if we take care of the people who come to us, we can actually deal with some of the labour shortages with the help of these people. Education and better matching are crucial for successful integration. More people need to move on to regular education; that is necessary. Some need to supplement their education, while others need longer education. Some people have more access to the labour market than others; we all know that. Some people need wage subsidies, others don't need them. But one thing is common to all of us, namely that it should be possible to live on a salary and that the gaps in society must be reduced. I support the proposal in the report.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-199	Mr President, I would like to I asked some questions in my speech, and I repeat them. Getting out and getting a grip on working life as soon as possible and starting to make contacts and get a network is extremely important. Annelie Karlsson said in her speech that more people will get the chance and that a battery of measures is required. Something that has been an important part is the possibility of internships initially. Now the government has chosen to remove the possibility of an internship during the asylum period, which I find strange. I feel like it's going in the wrong direction. We would like to see the possibility of getting an internship reintroduced, but also the possibility of working from day one. If otherwise, derogations should be made in a different direction from what is being done today. We think that you should make sure that people can use either the card that the Migration Agency puts in compensation or find a way that makes it possible to pay salary. These are the practical things that are needed. On the part of the Center Party, we would rather do something about the practical problems than make it even more difficult. How has one reason been made when choosing to make it more difficult for the new arrivals to get into practice during the asylum period?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-203	Mr President, I would like to Annika Qarlsson asked why we have removed the possibility of an internship during the asylum examination period. I don't really think it's that hard to understand. The government is investing in those who have been granted a residence permit and says that asylum trials must be shortened. Once you have received a residence permit and are placed in a municipality, you should be equipped as quickly as possible to enter the labour market. There's a challenge. We have many people who have come to us, and we have many people waiting to become part of society. They wait to get the key to their apartment and get the opportunity to start their life and get out to work. We have limited resources to ensure that this process is shortened. Then I think it is reasonable that those who have been granted a residence permit should also be the ones who are given the key to the labour market in the first place. It is those who have been granted a residence permit and who will start their life in Sweden who also have the key to the workplace. It is these people who are going to make their living. However, unlike the government that Annika Qarlsson's party was part of, this government has begun to give people the opportunity to teach Swedish and social studies from day one. I think that's a really good start. It is a start which then creates the conditions for people to go into the labour market quite quickly, once they have their residence permit, and get their first internship and start their way to get a livelihood through a job. Nevertheless, I think that this government – unlike the former, which is investing in equipping people and preparing them for the life that comes when they have been told, while, despite the great burden, doing everything to shorten the processing times – shows that it is taking this seriously. It is better that we equip people with knowledge of society and with knowledge of the Swedish language than that we allow them to be employed.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-207	Mr President, I would like to I very much appreciate that people have the opportunity to learn both Swedish and social studies. I am not opposed to this, but I think it is very good and welcome it. However, I must say that I find it strange that the possibility of an internship is being removed. Based on the fact that each of those who come here seeking asylum has its history, its background, its needs and various things with it, I think it is wrong to close this possibility. When you have opened up to other parts, I wonder why you had to close this one. But there are differences of opinion. My second question concerns the actions of the Migration Agency. They empty a variety of refugee homes and gather people in other places. It creates a very great turbulence. We see kids who get to leave their football team, their class and their school and move to the other end of Sweden. We also see the non-profit forces that with wool and hair have gone in and spent many hours tying bands. This could involve renovating a house or making other efforts to create opportunities and conditions to start creating lifelong ties. This whole action puts both the places where people are snatched away and the places where people are forced in – municipalities that have a very heavy load, have a very precarious situation and have a huge challenge – on the edge of the pot. I was in Hultsfred on Monday. There they have the largest share of new arrivals, in relation to their population, with the 688 that came last year. There you now break the law and say you can't help more people. But the Migration Agency continues to move people there, even though the municipality would need the housing. All this action is counterproductive at both ends. My question to government representatives is therefore: is this good, and what are you doing?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-212	Mr President, I would like to I share the problem picture that Annika Qarlsson gives. I also don't think it feels good when we tear up people who have started an establishment in society and move them to another place. On the other hand, I fully support the fact that all municipalities have to shoulder their responsibilities, because that is a completely different matter. That is an issue that we must continue to discuss. I welcome the fact that the Center Party is prepared to continue that discussion. Ensuring that all municipalities take their share of the responsibility and that you make sure to create the conditions for people to come to a municipality and start their lives is one thing. But it is not good when you have started an establishment and then forced to break it up. Just like Annika Qarlsson, I meet this problem description when I'm out in different municipalities. That is an issue that we can continue to discuss. I have no other opinion than that I see the problem. But I also welcome the fact that we can continue to discuss it.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-214	Mr President, I would like to Annelie Karlsson spoke a lot about education in her speech. She even said that it invests in, education, education and training. We on the Moderate side have nothing against investing in education, but we think it is good. At the same time, we know that many people come to Sweden without education. It is even the case that some people can neither read nor write nor even speak our language. It can be people of adult age, perhaps not infrequently at the same age as me and Annelie Karlsson. The question then is: if this is lacking, is education through an entire school system the best solution? We will have training, but we also propose a first job position. It is a new form of employment where you both work and have elements of education in the meantime. If you come to Sweden as an adult you have probably done a lot of things in your life that makes you have knowledge, even if they do not come from education, which you should be able to use in your professional life. In the situation we have today, half of those who come here do not have a job after eight years, while Annelie Karlsson and the government say that they will have a job within two years. This has been said for two and a half years now, and we see that this is not the case. The government has made proposals and said things, but there will not be much workshop. How will the Social Democrats and Annelie Karlsson ensure that people actually get to work faster than they do today? I hear many words, but I see very few proposals – and even fewer legislative proposals that we actually vote on in the commar – that make a real difference to those concerned.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-218	Mr President, I would like to You can say that you hear many words from the present government parties, but I hear even more words from those who had government power for eight years and who now say to us – who have government power for more than two years – that it takes far too long. It has not begun to take longer since we took over government power, even though we have a reception that is infinitely greater than in the eight bourgeois years, but it is now clear that it takes a long time. It doesn't take much longer now than it did when Christian Holm Barenfeld's party had government power. The solutions we come up with now – with education, education, education – are right, but it's not that we're just going to train academics. Sometimes I hear bourgeois representatives say that not everyone can have conditions and that you can learn the job at work. We have a battery of different training courses. The fact that people should have knowledge and be able to do a job does not mean that everyone should become an academic; there are jobs that require much less education, but knowledge is needed to stay strong in the labour market. I believe that this is what separates our parties most. I think that you should have enough knowledge to be strong in the labour market when you go into it. You should be able to get a job that is safe, you should get a salary to live off and you should be able to start your life. You should be able to sign your rental contract. However, Christian Holm Barenfeld is more interested in how we can be involved in financing so that employers can get cheaper labour with the help of unskilled people who are far from the labour market. We have two completely different ways of solving the problem, and I think we should respect that. You and I think very different about how the labour market should work, Christian Holm Barenfeld. That's it!
i-4d46c44ff974b017-222	Mr President, I would like to I think we can agree that we think quite differently, and we should respect that. At the same time, I think it is important that we focus on what we are actually talking about, namely integration, how to increase jobs and how to get more people into work. I find it hard to see that it would not be to invest in those who come here if you got them working with education – for example, first job employment, where you get both work and education. Being in work is part of integration and something that equips the person. I don't mind Annelie Karlsson saying a lot about education, education and training, but I think it's a problem when the government forgets jobs, jobs and jobs. As far as many of the proposals put forward are concerned, studies show that they are estimated to lead to fewer jobs. Now we see that the jobs are growing, because we are in a boom. Over a period of six seven years ago, we were in an international financial crisis, and that also affects us. We know that when a country is doing well, it is easier for those who are far from the labour market to enter – and we know that as soon as the economic cycle turns around, it is precisely those people who are affected. We are now in a boom, and we have had a huge inflow to Sweden. We also know that a boom does not last forever. This means that we need to equip ourselves with education, but we also need to make sure that we take other measures to enable people to get to work. The current government is very happy to return to the previous government. We Moderates have been clear that we did a lot that was very good but that we had to do more when it comes to integration. That is why we Moderates have gone through and reviewed our policies. Now we deliver many proposals – new and sharp proposals – that are adapted to today's Sweden.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-226	Mr President, I would like to I hear quite a lot of the old proposals, namely: make it cheaper, reduce taxes, make sure you get 60% of your salary when you work. It should therefore be made cheaper for the individual. Then we have the usual mantra that it will pay off to work. It's always paid off to work! With our proposals, it pays off every day. Seven days a week it pays to work, Christian Holm Barenfeld. It always pays to work before having compensation; it is never full coverage of the benefits we propose. On the other hand, they create the conditions for you not to walk from home if you suffer unemployment or do not get a foothold in the labour market. There is also a difference in how we look at the Swedish labour market and how it should work, Mr President. It is said that it will pay off to work and that it has proposals on this. Our proposals are to equip people to enter the labour market and then have government subsidies for those who are not strong enough to enter on their own. There will always be a need for state subsidies on the labour market for people in society, I would think – whether it is people in start-ups or people born here. People have different conditions. On the other hand, you should be able to live on your salary. That's where we differ, too. What will it look like on the labour market? We say that people should be strong in the labour market, and then we share the risk if they cannot come in on their own. It is also equipping people for the labour market. We have two completely different ways of looking at this and what it should look like, but never come and smudge the Social Democrats' opinion that people should not go to work! That is why we are equipping people in a boom, so that they will be strong when the recession comes. Education, education, education! We stand by that.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-231	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I think we are quite in agreement on the problem picture. We have a larger group of people who are far removed from the labour market. We have a large group of people who have come to our country in recent years and who have a low level of education, a lack of language skills – which is quite natural – and so on. The question is how we can open up the labour market to that group. Approximately every other person who is now in start-up operations, i.e. about 30 000 out of 60 000, lacks a level of education corresponding to Swedish upper secondary education. Many of these people want to work. They may not be able, able or able to sit on the school bench in Sweden for another ten years. We also already have quite a few immigrants in Sweden who have education but not jobs that correspond to their level of education. We should not forget that; we have quite a lot of highly trained drivers and other things in Sweden that might want to work as engineers instead. My question to the Social Democrats, Mr President, is as follows. The Economic Institute, the European Commission, the OECD, the IMF, the Financial Policy Council, the SNS Economic Council and the Labour Market Economic Council – all these different bodies have looked at the Swedish economy and the Swedish labour market, and they basically state the same thing. They go a little differently and have different proposals, but basically they state the same thing: The high entry wages in Sweden are problematic for integration. The question to the Social Democrats is whether all these bodies are wrong. Is it your assessment that everyone else is wrong? Only the Social Democrats are right; everyone else is always wrong – right?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-235	Mr President, I would like to You could play back the lines of previous debates, because I do not think that those who sit at home listening to us would hear if it were today, last autumn, in the spring or autumn before. It is the same mantra that is repeated – Fredrik Malm sounds about the same. There is talk of the high entry wages. There are problems with wages being too high, and we need to reduce wages in the Swedish labour market. This is the key! I am pleased that Fredrik Malm says that we agree on the problem picture – that is a step along the way. However, I soon have no faith left that we could agree on the rest, because I come with a fool's stubbornness to claim that it is the parties who are going to set entry wages. We shall not discuss this in Parliament's Chamber. It is not a matter for politics to discuss what wage formation in society should look like – we have left that to the parties. I have said it before, and I say it again: this is a model that has served us well. I am not prepared to say, like Fredrik Malm, that it would be better if we took over and set minimum wages in Sweden. This must be Fredrik Malm's model. How much too high are entrance salaries, and who have too high entry wages? There is not only a starting salary in Sweden. The union that I come from, Trade Workers, has entry wages that I think are quite low. Municipal has a different starting salary. In the construction industry, you have a percentage salary when you are an apprentice, until you have received your professional certificate. According to the industrial agreement, there is another starting salary. Which of these entrance salaries are too high? Who's to be lowered? Which parties have signed agreements with too high entry wages, according to Fredrik Malm, should he now take over the wage formation from the parties? I am not prepared to take that discussion, but apparently Fredrik Malm is prepared to do so.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-240	Mr President, I would like to I think my name was mentioned 10 – 15 times in the previous speech – Fredrik Malm repeats the same mantra and so on. But, Mr President, it is not me who repeats a mantra here. What I asked Annelie Karlsson and the Social Democrats relates to what a number of different bodies say about Sweden's economy and labour market. It is about the Economic Institute, the European Commission, the OECD, the IMF, the Financial Policy Council, the SNS Economic Council and the Labour Market Economic Council. Not all of them say the same thing, and not all of them have the same proposal, but the problem picture that they all state is basically the same. Today in Sweden we have a labour market that does not allow a large group of the new arrivals. One problem with this is that high entry wages make integration more difficult. Is it better for people to live on subsidies instead? The Social Democrats speak warmly in favour of people being able to live on their wages, but a salary is higher than a contribution. Is it better, then, for people to live on subsidies? I don't think so. Mr President, I would like to I see this issue with a great deal of humility. As the Moderates stated earlier, we did much that was good during the alliance years, but we could have gone even further. We also had a financial crisis in 2011 that took out as many jobs in Sweden as there were asylum seekers in 2015, i.e. about 160 000. We have a transformational pressure on the economy, with increased outsourcing. We have digitalization. We have got people who have been on sick leave to enter the labour force and become active job seekers again. We in Sweden have a need to create a boom with new jobs. Then the question to the Social Democrats is: are all these expert bodies wrong? Is it only the Social Democrats who are right, and everyone else is always wrong? If it is the attitude of the Social Democrats, this does not show much humility in the face of the challenges we face.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-247	Mr President, I would like to I will not mention Fredrik Malm by name so many times. What I intend to mention, however, is that the ideology that we Social Democrats stand for – which includes the Swedish model, which has served us well – will continue to exist no matter what happens. We will not ask what anyone else thinks of our ideological conviction. The parties may discuss entry-level salaries. We do not need to discuss this any more, because this is my firm opinion. Nor will I take a different view when we leave here – this is the task of the parties. It is interesting to discuss the importance of wages. I also believe that wages are important. It is not possible to ask for a person to pay full pay when hiring a person who has not been tested in the labour market – a person who for one reason or another has an obstacle to employment. That is why we have subsidies. That is why we say: Follow the collective agreement, but get subsidies from the state! That's why we pay part of the salary. We share that risk together rather than letting the individual pay. I think it's a much smarter model. The Alliance parties do not find it any wonder that we are discussing subsidies when we talk about, for example, ROT and RUT. However, they think so when we talk about subsidising for the individual, and I think this is ugly. Subsidising in connection with ROT and RUT is apparently a successful labour market model. It is clearly a successful model for getting people into employment. But when we subsidise the individual, they think that people should have a driving force – if you only get a salary, you should learn to live on it! A lower wage is better than no wage at all! When we talk about other groups in society, one should instead stimulate and subsidise so that there is not so much undeclared work, and one should – with regard to RUT and ROT – ensure that one gets a decent labour market. This is weird. Whether to stimulate or use carrots and whips depends on the people we're talking about.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-255	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party wants Sweden to be a humanitarian and welcoming country where everyone can participate on their own terms. In 2015, historically many asylum seekers arrived in Sweden in a short time. Each of the 162,877 persons seeking asylum is a human being of flesh and blood — a person who carries memories and dreams, who has a history and a longing for a future. Every single one is a person whose right to life and freedom is absolute. Sweden did more than any other EU country in 2015 to help people seeking protection. We did what the rest of Europe should have done – we took responsibility. The efforts of municipalities, county councils and civil society have been both crucial and invaluable. Last autumn's experience shows, however, that we need to work more to strengthen the capacity of the reception system, so that it works well both in times when there are many and in times when it will get. We also need to continue to push for a system in Europe in which all Member States take joint responsibility for receiving asylum seekers. The Green Party and the Government are working hard to streamline reception, improve establishment and shorten the way to work and studies for new arrivals. Early intervention is a key element of this work. Many efforts are already being made to ensure that the people who have come to Sweden can learn Swedish, educate themselves or get their previous education validated and enter the labour market. It is not a common history, skin colour, religion or ethnicity that unites us in Sweden, but it is our common future. The Green Party stands by our belief in an open Sweden that welcomes people here. That is why it is our duty to build a society in which systems can cope with our visions. Sweden is now better equipped to cope with the establishment of those who have come to Sweden in recent years and those who will come to the future. The government has implemented many measures to improve the establishment and reception capacity, and we also have the strongest labour market across the EU. More people who come here on the run should be able to learn Swedish from day one and be able to work from day one. The earlier we make it easier for people to learn Swedish and to get their qualifications and grades validated, the earlier we provide opportunities to create industry contacts within the person's profession and to establish private contacts and networks. This means that people also come to work earlier or start businesses. Historically, Sweden has managed to grow well. Two decades after the Balkan war, we see that those who sought refuge in Sweden and made it their new home country have established themselves to such an extent that there are more of them who read further at the university than native Swedes. Sweden grew and created opportunities from a major challenge. Today we also see how unaccompanied minors succeed very well and actually even better than refugee children who have come here with their families. Long processing times in the asylum process are, and have been, a major problem in recent years, especially for the individual who is forced to live in uncertainty about his or her future for a long time, which in turn can have a negative impact on his or her health and establishment. The fact that waiting for asylum decisions is made as short as possible is the single most important thing for a good start in Sweden. Reducing processing times has been an important priority for the government. In 2016, the Government increased funding to the Finnish Immigration Service to deal with the large number of asylum seekers. It was about increased housing costs but also that the agency could increase its capacity to register and examine asylum applications and hire more staff to shorten processing times. One of the biggest reforms we have made during this parliamentary term, also in terms of the budget, is that all Swedish municipalities should now take responsibility and help with the reception of refugees. We have contributed SEK 10 billion annually to municipalities and county councils in general state grants. The purpose of the settlement law now in place is precisely to ensure a more even distribution of the reception of new arrivals between the municipalities of the country and to ensure that municipalities that are well placed for establishment receive new arrivals to a slightly greater extent than before. Everyone's here to help. The government has also increased the compensation to municipalities for newly arrived immigrants who have special needs, such as the need for an accessible home or proximity to specific healthcare. One way to quickly get more housing, as the Green Party has run, is to make it easier for individuals to rent out existing rooms or housing. In the 2016 spring change budget, the Government contributed SEK 10 million to the county administrative boards to create conditions to convey or otherwise facilitate the rental of private homes. In the future, this effort will double. We have also invested in trauma care. The occurrence of diseases requiring care when people arrive in Sweden has been affected to a large extent by experiences, traumas and risks to which the asylum seeker has been exposed during the flight. This, together with separation from family members, entails an increased risk of mental illness. It is something that affects the individual very strongly and that also impairs the establishment. At the Green Party's initiative, the government has therefore decided to invest in healthcare and treatment for traumatized asylum seekers and new arrivals with 40 million annually in 2017 – 2020. In 2015, 35 000 unaccompanied children came to Sweden. Sweden made a huge effort when so many asylum seekers arrived for a short time. People stood up and became good men for unaccompanied minors and engaged in sports associations that arranged activities at asylum homes, and residents and teachers have done their utmost to welcome the young lonely guys, as it often is, into society. Now, however, we see how the concern is spread among those who have come to Sweden as unaccompanied minors and among those who work with unaccompanied minors in different ways. Age write-ups seem to be arbitrary according to many. The rejections come on an ongoing basis, as many who came in 2015 and waited for decisions are now starting to get the decisions. The readmission agreement with Afghanistan concerns, including the movement of schools and municipalities, and makes the situation very difficult. That is why, in recent weeks and months, we have received reports of an increase in the number of suicide attempts among unaccompanied minors and an increase in mental illness. It is therefore positive that several important changes for this group are now being implemented. Age assessments should be more legally secure, take place earlier in the asylum process and be subject to appeal. A new legislation, which will soon be submitted to the Riksdag, will enable unaccompanied minors to complete upper secondary school in Sweden, then have a time to seek employment and then have the opportunity to obtain a permanent residence permit or then apply for a residence permit on some other basis. This is something that has been important for the Green Party and which we have been strongly instigating in order to be able to implement. The Government has also decided to establish a national knowledge centre for unaccompanied minors. The aim is to spread up-to-date knowledge, successful methods and effective processes to the municipalities, county councils and responsible authorities that implement actions for these children. We are constantly working on measures that can improve the situation of severely vulnerable groups, as unaccompanied minors. During this term of office, the government has strengthened the reception of municipalities by increasing the school column for asylum seekers by 50%, by establishing the housing form of support housing and by providing a lot of resources to civil society organisations, which are doing an extremely important job during the asylum period. We will continue to work to improve the situation, not least for unaccompanied children, in terms of mental illness and the stress of being constantly relocated between housing, schools and municipalities. Finding a job is the key to a good and fast establishment in society. It is therefore positive that the question of how more asylum seekers can be allowed to work from day one is being prepared at the Government Office. The Swedish Tax Agency has also been commissioned by the Government to make proposals that give the Finnish Immigration Service the opportunity to requisition so-called coordination numbers for all asylum seekers. The amended rules, which will enter into force on 1 July 2017, will probably significantly facilitate the work of the Employment Service with asylum seekers. It is important that more asylum seekers have the right and the opportunity to work and that obstacles to this are removed. It is therefore a good thing that the question of asylum seekers' access to employment services is reviewed and that a review of the rules for obtaining AT-UND is carried out. The Swedish labour market is doing very well now. Sweden's economy is also doing very well. The fact that so many people have come here in a short time is a challenge, but it is also a historic opportunity to make Sweden an even better country for more people.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-280	Mr President, I would like to Much needs to be done about integration. Some things have been done and some things we agree on. In my previous line shift with Annelie Karlsson there was talk about the fast track. They think we're all good. On the other hand, they have so far not been successful and successful, for there is a very small proportion of those enrolled who have been given access to them at all. That's where I think we all need to work so that what hasn't been successful can be successful. When it comes to getting the person who has come to work here, I have highlighted the RUT deduction on several occasions in the debate, which I know the Green Party has expressed positive views on in the past. But at the same time you are in the government and make sure to tighten it up. The government will halve it while we want to triple it. We also want the first job, which is about people working and being educated at the same time. At the same time, we say that you should not pay taxes on income until you have earned 12 000 SEK. This makes it a good substitute. We know that the Green Party on this issue must cooperate with the Left Party, so what is the Green Party's concrete proposal for the low-education party that has come to Sweden to work? As far as labour migration is concerned, the LO unions and other social democrats have been out saying that one should not look in the same way at a cleaner as at an IT technician, but the IT technician is more welcome. How does Maria Ferm view this and the integration aspect of sending out people who have worked here for several years because some previous employer has made some mistake? What are Maria Ferms's views on labour migration, both on the s proposal and on those who have to return?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-284	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Christian, for a lot of different questions, which are all interesting! When it comes to our view of what is needed in terms of both the labour market and education for people to get into work, the answer is that a great many different measures are needed, because people who come to Sweden have very many different backgrounds. Some come here with a high education, and others come here with some training. Still others who come here have not studied at all before and are perhaps in middle age. Then one may not expect them to be able to educate themselves through this. We therefore need to ensure that there are also fast ways into the labour market. Already today we have different ways, such as trainee services, extra services in welfare and modern preparedness jobs. It is simply a question of measures of various kinds. Christian Holm Barenfeld himself mentioned the fast track. There are about 20 fast tracks to the shortage professions. We have also ensured the creation of a fast track for entrepreneurship. Many who come here have a business background and have run their own company in their home country. We cannot expect everyone to become employees, but there must be different ways to start up here in Sweden. We have also made a historic investment in education. This is very important for many of those who come here. They also need to be able to validate their training and their actual knowledge. It's about a little bit of everything. I think it would be good if we could make the change that will allow more asylum seekers to work from day one. I believe that the Moderates have been in favour of this in the past. I will return to the question of labour immigration in my next line.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-291	Mr President, I would like to As Maria Ferm says, some come to Sweden with high education, others come with a slightly lower education and a large amount also comes largely without education. I share Maria Ferms's analysis that we need to make different efforts here. The problem is that the biggest government party says we should invest in education, training and education. If you do not have an education when you come here and are middle-aged or older youth, we need to look at what people have done in the past and what knowledge we can take advantage of. Trainee services, auxiliary services and state preparedness jobs are addressed. As I said in my speech, Stefan Löfven and the government have promised 85 000 in total, but not even 5 000 have arrived. For those with higher education, the fast track is a good and important part in enabling us to take advantage of skills and validate their knowledge. The problem is that about 4% of those involved – the reporting of figures is poor – are in the fast track. So we still have 96% left. In addition, we know that many who have not yet received a residence permit will receive it. So the situation can get even worse. What can we do to ensure that those who have very low levels of education still get into work without having to wait for a lot of years and go through the entire Swedish education system in adulthood? I also look forward to getting answers to how Maria Ferm views labour migration. This applies partly to the Social Democrats' proposal that you are not welcome to Sweden as a labour immigrant if you are not well educated, because LO members should first get jobs, and also that those who have been here for many years are sent out even though they have had jobs.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-295	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with the immigration of labour. For a long time, the Green Party has felt that the regulatory framework we have is good and valuable. People who are offered a job here should be able to come here and work, provided that they have the same good conditions as other people who work in Sweden. It is companies that can best assess the need for labour, but of course they must first advertise it in Sweden and in the EU before seeking outside labour. We still have this position, and we believe that the regulatory framework is important. The fact that many people who have worked here for a long time are being sent out or get rid of their residence permits because, for example, the employer has made minor mistakes, missing out on any insurance a number of years earlier or similar is a huge problem. We want to correct this, because this too is an important issue. It will be very strange if individuals are to suffer for a minor mistake from the employer that may have happened a long time ago. I do not share the view that the government's education and labour market policy consists only of education, training and education. On the contrary, it consists of a whole palette of different measures. It is about trying to make it easier for people to enter the labour market quickly. This also applies to those who do not have training and who may need fast-quality services rather than education. But we will also invest in education. It is a combination of these two things. The key is to see that everyone is individuals and that different efforts are needed because it is about different people.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-299	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Ferm, for a good speech! I felt like you were trying to answer some questions right from the start, but I'd like to get a little deeper to see if I got you right. What often unites the Green Party and the Center Party is the view of immigration, and this applies to both opportunities and challenges that naturally accompany. We see a great need for reform in the labour market and residential area and in terms of responsibility for reception. Let us talk about practical issues, because these are things that are happening here and now that we need to do something about right away. After all, we agree that it is good that people come in early and can establish themselves in the labour market and start to get contacts and networks that make them get that job. But why does the government choose to remove the opportunity to get an internship right from the start? Views have been made, and I myself have asked questions from the speaker's office about this. One thing that is linked to being able to work is that you have to ask for exceptions. On the contrary, we think that from day one we should have the opportunity to work. There are some practical problems in this, such as the need to have the last four figures in order to be able to get pay and the like. But if I understood Maria Ferm correctly, this is happening and will come in 2017. I would also like to hear something about the last part which is also related to this package. We would like to see the possibility of a change of track. If you have come here and are looking for asylum but are hooking in somewhere and have the opportunity to stay under other conditions, you should be able to change tracks to become labour immigrants to a greater extent. Is any work going on to change the right direction in this regard?
i-6d2s8L3USoz8ftVNSw4PQc	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Annika Qarlsson, for the questions! As far as asylum seekers are concerned, we are experiencing quite major changes. When, just a few years ago, very many people arrived for a short time, the processing times became long, and it became even more central that people had employment during the asylum period and did not go idle and ended up in passivity. Otherwise, the road to the labour market would have been even longer. There were also other contributions such as Swedish education at the asylum accommodation. Now we see that the processing times will be considerably shortened. The possibility of a traineeship or that the Migration Agency is in charge of this will change in the next six months. True, it was also a change at the turn of the year. This summer, however, this opportunity will expire. We estimate that the processing times at the Migration Agency will be much shorter after that. Then the need to practice is not as important, but instead it is quickly entering into the mission of establishment. Rather, we have invested in how to make it easier for more asylum seekers to work directly. For example, it is a question of reviewing the calculations against the daily allowance, which means that it is not profitable to work. We will also review the coordination numbers in order to improve the opening of bank accounts. We are reviewing the right to receive AT-UND and the requirements for this. However, I do not know if the right solution is to completely remove it, but we need to see how we can make it easier for as many people as possible to work directly during the period of asylum. So our focus has been on this. With regard to the change of track, the time was reduced from six to four months during the previous term of office. It's easier to change tracks now. The proposals are interesting, but I do not know that any such work is going on.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-309	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answers to all my questions. I would like to mention one more area, namely the relocations that are taking place at the moment. The Finnish Immigration Service is emptying accommodations, and they are collected elsewhere. I have a brilliant example from Kroppefjäll in the municipality of Mellerud. There really is civil society around there. You have good business, and it has worked very well. But the nest must be empty by May 31st. It creates concern among all the people who are now being forced away and to be moved elsewhere. But it also creates frustration among all the forces of civil society, which have gone in and committed themselves to a great deal. That's one part. The second part concerns Hultsfred, where I was on Monday. There you continue to pick up even more, although Hultsfred's municipality is now even breaking the law and saying: We have more than we can handle, and we cannot accept more! We don't have accommodations! We don't have anything! Other municipalities must be involved in helping! Hultsfred has stopped. You beg and pray at the Migration Board: Can't we get some of these apartments? Then we would be able to help those who are here and have no place to live! But you can't hear. This creates tremendous frustration at both ends. One might think it would be good if we could resolve this at some point in the future with a different system. The Center Party would like us to give the municipalities responsibility right from the start, with a more even distribution. But the situation is urgent now, and the government must do something about the emergency situation. I would like to hear what the signals to the Migration Agency are on these issues.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-316	Mr President, I would like to The fact that people are forced to move to new accommodations and that people are shutting down accommodation around Sweden means a big change. That's a very big question. It is to a large extent a matter of an enormous number of people coming in a short time in 2015. Many accommodations, including emergency accommodations, had to be opened up and people crammed into accommodations that were not very good, but do so quickly, so that people could have a roof over their heads. The Migration Board also managed to give all people a roof over their heads in the difficult situation that prevailed. The number of asylum seekers has now fallen sharply in Sweden and Europe. Then we cannot from the state have a lot of empty accommodations around Sweden. It costs money, and there's no way to defend it. In addition, there is the Act on Public Procurement, which governs which accommodations to close depending on which accommodation you have procured and when. What the Migration Agency is trying to do is to close accommodation between the semesters, so that you don't pick up the children in the middle of the semester when they go to school. Emergency accommodation has been closed and the accommodations where people had to crowd in the past. But just like Annika Qarlsson, I am worried about what this is doing, and about the people who need to move – it is desirable that they should be able to live as much as possible in the same municipalities, not have to move so far and so on – partly with civil society. There were so many who gave their everything during that autumn and felt that the state was not really there and who perhaps also now feel that the state does not take responsibility. I really think you need to take it seriously and see what you can do to not have that feeling and to be able to take care of that commitment, so that it does not go away.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-320	Mr President, I would like to As far as immigration, reception and asylum legislation are concerned, we have a system that is quite complicated already as it is. What the Green Party has contributed over the past year is to make it a big mess. It is absolutely bizarre, Mr President, how we have managed to mess this up. First, the Green Party and the government come up with legislation to reduce temporary residence permits to only 13 months, creating a big mess in parts of the integration process. Now the Green Party is trying to parry this, or somehow patch it up and fix it, by bringing forward a new bill that will involve some sort of special upper secondary school TUT, a temporary residence permit for upper secondary school studies, for those people who have been in trouble because of the legislation that the Environmental Party has previously pushed through. This proposal should, as I understand it, cover, on the one hand, persons who have temporary residence permits and, on the other hand, persons who have expulsion decisions. The Swedish Parliament must therefore take a decision that requires a review of the decision of the Finnish Immigration Service. Then these people will be granted a four-year temporary residence permit to study in upper secondary school. But the possibility to then establish oneself in Sweden is linked to obtaining a diploma. This means that you are moving the entire burden on principals, social security officers and school staff. You are reviewing the Finnish Immigration Service's decision on rejection and say that the person should remain for a few more years. Then you can stay if you have a final grade. This means that you are transferring the burden from the Migration Agency, which is the authority responsible for this, to the country's principals and social security secretary. It doesn't make sense. I would like an explanation from the Green Party on how to look at this.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-323	Mr President, I would like to Many thanks, Fredrik Malm, for giving me the opportunity to sort out some things that you have misunderstood about this legislation! First of all, it doesn't depend on final grades. It's just that you're supposed to be in high school. You don't need to have approved on all subjects. You should simply have gone to high school, according to this new legislation. Secondly, the legislation that we come to Parliament in the spring is something that we announced even when the temporary law was passed. It is stated in that bill that we will return to the Riksdag with additional provisions regarding the rules for upper secondary school. The temporary law allows you to obtain a permanent residence permit if you get a job. We were worried that it would lead to children and young people dropping out of high school in panic because they wanted to find a job and get a permanent residence permit. We did not see mass dropouts from high school as something particularly positive, but rather wanted young people to go to high school. Therefore, this supplementary legislation, which ensures that a large group of young people will be able to go to high school and feel confident that they will be allowed to stay in Sweden during that time and afterwards be given the opportunity to establish themselves in the labour market and in that case be granted permanent residence permits. This is also linked to the fact that the Migration Agency came up with a new interpretation of the legislation this summer. The law we adopted last spring said that all children and families with children who arrived before 24 November would be granted a permanent residence permit and tested against the old legislation, i.e. if they were granted a residence permit at all. This interpretation was repeated this summer by the Finnish Immigration Service, so that children between 16 and 18 who did not have an arranged reception would instead receive temporary residence permits and be rejected on the 18th anniversary. Those who were 17 1⁄2 and were rejected were to be postponed. It is also changed, so that the unaccompanied children will be able to stay just as before. They will not be granted a permanent residence permit, but they will be able to complete high school and then establish themselves.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-328	Mr President, I would like to Now it gets even messier. This means that the Environmental Party has contributed to the enforcement of legislation in Sweden that means that a person who is 15 years and 11 months of age probably gets a different length of his or her permit than a person who is 17 years of age and comes here. A person who is 17 1⁄2 receives so-called deferred execution and then is rejected when he reaches the age of 18. But regardless of whether a person has protection reasons or not, you should now have special legislation that means going to high school. This, in turn, must be conditional upon obtaining a diploma or equivalent. Mr President, I would like to I take this as meaning that what the government is trying to achieve is to correct the huge mess that the new Temporary Asylum Act has created. But when the government tries to patch up and fix this, it creates a new, amazing mess that you should try to interpret. In addition, responsibility is transferred from the Migration Agency, which is the responsible authority, and enormous pressure is placed on principals, school staff, social security secretaries and other people close to these young people. Mr President, I would like to It would have been better if we had kept to what we came up with in the migration agreement. A little longer temporary residence permits would have been better. Then there would have been a planning horizon and an opportunity for integration to work, instead of you constantly looking at the clock and wondering what day you might have to leave Sweden. It would have given you a fair chance to establish yourself. For some young people, protection reasons will remain. That means they're in some kind of squirrel wheel where they get renewed residence permits for a few years at a time and so on. Unfortunately, it will create even more confusion.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-332	Mr President, I would like to No one else gets a residence permit. It is still the case that you receive a residence permit as either a refugee or a person in need of protection, or you may stay because of the lack of an arranged reception in your home country. It may be that there is no one who can take care of a child and that it is uncertain to reject a child there. Those basics now exist, and they will be in the future. There won't be any change there. The difference is that people will be able to complete high school and then establish themselves in the labour market. Fredrik Malm calls it to correct problems in the legislation. Maybe that's how you can look at it. In that case, I very much hope that the Liberals will support the correction of the problems that you clearly see with the legislation. It's not about putting more responsibility on teachers and principals. Fredrik Malm tried to say in his first reply that responsibility would be transferred from the Migration Agency to the teachers and principals. It's not about passing grades, it's about going to high school. That is probably why the organisations and persons working with unaccompanied minors are also in favour of the change. I look forward to the change, and I hope that it can contribute to a little more security and stability, especially at a time when we see that many are beginning to lose hope of the authorities and feel a great deal of uncertainty about the future, with the mental ill-health that it has led to. It is extremely important to get the proposal in place during the spring. If there are other things that can be sorted out with the proposal, I will be happy to sit down and do it afterwards. I hope that you will be positive when the proposal is due to be discussed in plenary soon.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-336	Mr President, I would like to It is frustrating to represent the smallest party. You get the last on the list of speakers. It's not good-- we have to change that. Not only that, but you must not ask for a reply until you have given your main speech. You can't ask for a reply even though you have a lot of opinions about what has been said before. It's a pain in the ass! In addition, all my requests in the area of integration have been dealt with in other reports, so I have no reservations to ask for approval, Mr President. It's not a good day! However, I have several specific opinions on the report, which at least tells me where the Christian Democrats stand in terms of integration policy. That's good. I will try to talk a little about what proposals we have in the area of integration. For us, the starting point is that integration policy should enable people to take responsibility for their own lives. Those who come as refugees or labour immigrants should be given the tools to participate in the community as quickly as possible. Those seeking asylum today often end up in a long time of waiting and passivity. There's something we've been talking about today. That's not good. We need to get people into working life, into activity and into community. We believe that in this way we provide the conditions for a good establishment in the Swedish labour market. Those who receive a residence permit, including those who only receive temporary residence permits, must be given the opportunity to have a meaningful everyday life. It's supposed to be from day one. You should know both your rights and your obligations in Swedish society. Sweden has received about a quarter of a million people for a short time. The integration of all these people is a major challenge. The municipalities and civil society have made enormous efforts, but we from the state will also do ours. Mr President, I would like to If we look at the costs of migration, we can say that the Migration Agency has around 60 billion in costs. On integration, about 30 billion are spent. These are huge sums of money, about 90 billion for migration and integration policies. If society spends so much resources from our common tax money on integration, the labour market must function so that people can become part of Swedish society as quickly as possible. The Christian Democrats, in particular, have three issues that we have raised in the budget motions that were discussed in the autumn. It is an asylum programme, that is to speed up integration from day one, introductions, to which I shall return, and housing issues. These are the three important issues. With the asylum programme, we believe that it is necessary to start much earlier with the establishment. There is the possibility of language teaching, but it has been civil society that has come in there. It's been a little different in different accommodations. There has been no common structure. We believe that the asylum programme should be mandatory regardless of whether you live in asylum accommodation or in EBO, your own accommodation. There are three things to be included in the asylum programme, namely professional SFI from day one, social orientation and jobs and employment. We believe it is important to bring Swedish forward for immigrants. You have more time when you've come here than later when you're in the job search phase. We imagine about 15 hours a week sfi and then about nine hours a week social orientation about rights and obligations, about the conditions of democracy, gender equality, how the labour market works and so on. There is one more thing I would like to mention, Mr President, about integration. Women who come here to Sweden should know all their rights as early as possible. We women who live in Sweden today have all rights, and we know what gender equality is and that we have a lot of rights. However, parallel societies are created where women do not enjoy these rights. There are women who live with different conditions, and women suffer from honorary standards. It must be clear from day to day what applies to the rights of the women who come here. This also applies to those men who do not intend to contribute to upholding the rights we have succeeded in achieving in Sweden after a long time. When it comes to jobs and employment, it is a pity, as was Annika Qarlsson, that the practice has disappeared. Even if there are shorter asylum procedures – not one to one and a half years – we will still need to invest more in some form of work or employment for the first time. The asylum seeker can find a job in the regular labour market, get a traineeship in an association, organisation or municipality, or get engaged in helping out in housing. People need to do something. Many of the people we meet in asylum homes say that they are going crazy because they have nothing to do. We have to put something in our hands, whatever it is. Employment is extremely important for strengthening people's confidence and for them to enter a community in Swedish society. The question of the level of education of many of those who come here has been raised. We know from Arbetsförmedlingen that 49 per cent lack upper secondary school competence and 34 per cent do not even have education that reaches primary school level. I know that the Employment Service somewhere has written that it does not even believe that everyone will be able to take on education. I respect and think it is good that the Social Democrats are raising the issue of education, but it is not really in all situations that it is the solution. It depends a little on the age of the person who comes here and how much he can absorb from education. Sweden today has poor results to lean on when it comes to creating the conditions for new arrivals to get to work. After eight years in Sweden, 25 per cent of those who have arrived in Sweden are employed or entrepreneurs, according to the Swedish Parliament's investigation service. The share that after 15 years in Sweden has full-year employment is 34 per cent. It's very little. That is why I believe that we must put the great resources we spend on this on the right things, and we must give the right incentives to work. I do not think that the creation of state preparedness jobs, trainee jobs and extra services is the solution, but we need to get the whole community involved. We cannot just have the targeted measures, where we talk from politics about exactly where people are going to work. We have to get all the companies with us. All employers must be part of the reception of new arrivals, especially now that we have such a large group of new arrivals without training. Our second proposal, in addition to the asylum programme, is introductions. There has been a lot of discussion about the fact that we are setting wages from politics. But our proposal is not about us politicians going into wage setting. This is a new form of employment we are talking about. We think it's a better introduction. We see today that the Public Employment Service is busy. A lot of resources are spent on Arbetsförmedlingen. They will look at how long a person has been unemployed to qualify for different interventions, if you have the right age, if you have been ill or unemployed for enough time and so on. There are many demands that make people either fall into or out of the system at Arbetsförmedlingen. It takes a lot of administration. This allows the individual to feel that he is suddenly too old or too young to enter a certain program. There is also no job security in these jobs. That is why we have put forward a proposal on introductory employment, in which we want to shorten the way to working life for those with a little lower education. We believe that a good relationship can still be established in this respect. We have selected those who earn less than SEK 22 000, because according to the Institute of Mediation's statistics, it is in principle a matter of education that does not require upper secondary school competence. You then get 75 per cent of the collective agreement level and get to learn the job under 25 per cent. During the introductory period you may not know Swedish so well, you may not understand the working life so well and you may not have as easy to take in education and knowledge at the new job. We believe that this is a way of creating incentives for the whole labour market to offer opportunities for employment with a slightly lower starting salary. In order to provide incentives for employers to invest in the person in question, you then enter the regular LAS and get job security within a fairly short period of time. It is therefore a question of reducing the regulatory burden and of not having to interfere in wage setting. It is about giving entrepreneurs the opportunity to hire people as they wish but perhaps with a slightly lower starting salary because you know that it takes time to train a particular person. It is about reducing the hassle and removing the workload of Arbetsförmedlingen in this area. These are some of the proposals that we have on the side of the housing issue, which I believe I can now hand over to the housing debaters in my party.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-358	Mr President, I would like to I will not make any sulfurous attack on anyone else, but I will simply say that I forgot to agree to the Liberals' reservation 11 in paragraph 3. Instead, I am doing so now, because we do not want to take away the opportunity for the House to vote on this proposal. The ability to change opinion sets the wise man apart from the stubborn one, as someone said.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-360	Mr President, I would like to Today, the Education Committee is here to discuss and debate the proposal relating to trials with grades in grades 4 and 5. This is an agreement which has been reached between the government parties and the alliance parties and which we are debating today. There is a reservation from the alliance parties because we unfortunately see that the government has done its very best to sabotage the conditions for the agreement and thus the result. Well, during autumn and winter we have had a number of positive things in the Swedish education debate. We received results from Timss and PISA, among other things, which show that some kind of trend break has occurred in Swedish schools. The Swedish results are rising. We also received, fortunately, an evaluation of the grades in Year 6, which the Alliance Government introduced. It showed, among other things, that 80 percent of the students reported that they felt increased motivation. Half of the teachers reported that the grades made it easier to understand and to demonstrate the students' knowledge development and to point to pupils in need of special support and with special needs. For the alliance government, the focus has always been on knowledge. Our focus is on being able to target measures that provide support and provide good conditions for continuing to improve students' knowledge results. We Moderates always want to contribute there, and we are prepared to take on a great deal of responsibility. The grading agreement is one such example. It was concluded almost two years ago between the government parties and the Alliance. It contained several parts, of which perhaps the most important was the assessment support in Swedish and mathematics for grade 1. It will be of great importance for no child to fall between the chairs after finishing the first grade when it comes to learning to read, write and count. Mr President, I would like to When we Moderates enter into agreements, we can be trusted to do our utmost to live up to what we have promised. In a deal, you take and give. You even sometimes have to slaughter some sacred cow. But when you put your foot down in an agreement and you shake your hand, you agree, and you stand for it. I'm afraid this isn't about the government. The government that has called itself a cooperative government has shown that it is difficult to trust when it comes to agreements. This applies to the free-school agreement, which unfortunately also applies to this agreement. From day one, when the agreement was presented, the government has delayed and hampered the implementation of this part of the agreement. Even when the press conference came out, leading representatives of the Social Democrats in the large and strong Social Democratic municipalities in particular went out and said that under no circumstances would any experimental activity be carried out in their municipalities – although it is clearly stated in the agreement that this would be the decision of the schools. The only reasonable political decision is that it should be the decisions of schools. I now hope that there are a number of courageous schools that want to defy those politicians who have effectively stopped their opportunities to be involved in the experiment. This has made the whole experiment more difficult, which has obviously been the intention. I would also like to highlight another part of the agreement that points to how it has lived up to this. This applies to the national tests in SO and NO in grade 6, which, according to the agreement, would be voluntary. In Social Democratic Congress papers we can now read that the Social Democratic-led government decided to abolish the national tests in SO and NO in grade 6. That, my friends, is quite different from doing the tests volunteer and giving an opportunity to participate in them voluntarily. But at least that's plain language. It has also been a situation where one of the Ministry of Education's closest employees wrote on Twitter: I think it is quite serious that leading representatives who have been involved in concluding this agreement so clearly demonstrate their view and lack of respect for their political opponents and for politically agreed agreements. Do social democrats and environmentalists not share the view that if you want to get new agreements, it is some kind of minimum that you live up to the agreements you have already reached? I would like to state clearly here and now that we Moderates always have the best interests of the students in mind when we make proposals. Our focus is that all students, regardless of background, wallet, geographic location, gender or any other individual condition, will succeed in Swedish school, and we want to take our responsibility in helping to provide better conditions for it. Once the bill arrived, it was not quite what we had agreed on. Aesthetic learning processes were never part of an agreement concluded with the alliance parties. When you look at the government's previous way of dealing with agreements, it is at hand to think that this is about making it more difficult to draw any conclusions from this and even to actually push the whole attempt in mind. Happily, a number of referrals have questioned this by comparing apples and pears. Among these consultation bodies are both the National Agency for Education and the two teaching unions. Mr President, I would like to My hope is that, at some point, it will turn out that it is possible to rely on social democrats when concluding agreements. We are currently having a positive moment in Swedish education. Timss, PISA and the evaluation of grades in grade 6 show not least this. Now it's important that we take care of all those parts. We must continue along this path and continue to focus on knowledge and a good school for our students and teachers. It requires focus, it requires ideas, it requires commitment and it actually also requires political integrity.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-375	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for reservation 1 on the subject. I have worked many years in school and seen how oral reviews work. They're working very badly. Parents hear what they want to hear. Not all teachers dare say unpleasant things about students with special problems or about students who may even work too little. This means that parents and students do not get the information they need. That's not how it's supposed to happen. We need to have some form of assessment that provides accurate information to both parents and students. Written reviews are of course much better, especially if it happens based on a template in any way. Then we are on the other hand very close to grades anyway. If we introduce grades from grade 4 our thought and our firm belief is that we increase the opportunities to put in support efforts for students with special needs. In the vast majority of cases, the student may work too little and perhaps read too little. There has not been much in the debate, but I think that is the most common reason. Here we have the tendency for boys' grades to fall across the entire education system compared to girls'. It may be that boys actually need clearer signals than girls to sharpen up and read or work more. If there are any problems, special support measures should of course be put in place. It's obvious. When I was in school, we had grades from grade 1, and I think that many in this House also did. I didn't have the best grades on all subjects. I came home to my mom and dad. Dad didn't say much. My mother muttered and got a little pissed, and I got a little better, read a little more and raised my grades. That's how grades should work in most cases. Most children who have too low grades – and this is especially true for boys – work and read too little. They must be given a clear signal, quite simply. I have read some articles on the subject. Most of them are negative to grades of low age. But most of these articles – most of them that come up early when you google on the subject – are based on a single source, and it is an interview with Christian Lundahl, professor of pedagogy. He thinks that we in Parliament should make decisions on scientific, evidence-based, grounds. But the interview with him was not evidence-based at all. If you go closer to the text, you can see that he says what he thinks about the issue in many ways. I've checked the sources, and they're extremely flawed sources. What we can see is that the countries that are high in international surveys, PISA surveys etc., have grades from previous years. It must mean something, even if there is no direct connection, as is often pointed out. We have done something wrong in the last 20 years because we have collapsed in these international investigations. Yes, in the last exams the curve has turned upwards. It's really exciting, but for 20 years we've slipped down. And during these 20 years we have perhaps made evidence-based decisions here in the Riksdag, as Professor Lundahl requested. Grading will not solve the problems in Swedish schools on its own. No one has claimed it, no one will say it, and we do not claim it either, but grades should be seen as a piece in a larger puzzle. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say a few words about the experimental activities that the majority will push through. I have nothing against experimentation, and perhaps we should have it more often than we have today. But this experimental activity is not good because it is based on voluntary activity. Schools should participate voluntarily in the experimental activities, which means that there is a strong selection and the results of the experimental activities can be very strongly questioned. If you are going to have this type of experiment, the government or other authority will of course select a cross section of schools that participate. Then you get a much more realistic result. It is even possible that my position will benefit from this type of experimentation, I should say. Right should be right.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-386	Mr President, I would like to No one will argue with me when I say that school is important. Nor does anyone argue that it is super important that students achieve good results. What, then, brings good results? There are, of course, many different reasons and aspects to it. However, we know that early follow-up, high expectations and the need for support are extremely central. As previous speaker Camilla Waltersson Grönvall has said, the proposal we are discussing today on trial with grades 4 is based on a settlement between the four alliance parties and the two government parties. The proposal is that it should be possible for those schools that want to see whether they can improve results more and more with previous grades, for example. The school has undergone many reforms that have been important and, as one might say, have been the basis for the improvements that we see in both PISA and Timss. For the Center Party it is not the most important in which grade you start to give grades but that you work in such a way that you reach as far as possible. I hope and believe that the schools that want to be part of this experiment – there is a limitation of 100 schools in the base – believe that this is a good way to provide early follow-up to the students you have in order to also provide a previous support to the students who need it. Camilla Waltersson Grönvall mentioned the evaluation of grades in grade 6 where you can see that many teachers feel that they have gained more clarity and that they previously discover students who need different forms of special support. Unfortunately, the evaluation also showed that students did not always receive the support they considered necessary to reach further. Since every year is equally important throughout the school period, my hope is for early follow-ups. Assessment aid from year 1 has been mentioned. But you should also have the opportunity to use grades from grade 4 for clearer follow-up towards the knowledge goals that exist. I think we should be careful not to compare too much with the rating that many of us have been subjected to, with the rating scale 1 – 5 that was considered relative and so on. Today there are clear knowledge goals that are linked to each grade step. I remember a boy in Uganda whom I met a number of years ago. He had just finished grade 4 and proudly presented his grade to me. It didn't look at all like our grades, where it says a letter. His grades were similar to what we have in another text, namely the goals that have been achieved for example grade C. It is possible for us to develop the grades in different ways so that they can provide the feedback the student wants and needs. When the Swedish school had grades from grade 8, too many students felt that it was only after the autumn semester of grade 8 that they were told clearly that the effort they had made and the results they had achieved were not enough for a grade that matched the picture they had received from earlier encouraging development discussions and so on. I would like to question what has been mentioned in the bill about comparisons with schools that use more physical activity or aesthetic learning processes. It shouldn't be one or the other. It is when the school provides a mix of good physical activity, many different ways of working and early follow-up that you can achieve the very best result. It should not be one either or in the Swedish school. You should do the things that are important. I hope that the National Board of Education, in its wisdom, does not begin to over-tangle with this. The National Agency for Education has itself stated that it is not possible to compare it in this way. This, as I see it, is not an experiment. It is experimental work where you in different ways should ensure that you follow up an improvement work and a development work that the Swedish school needs. Mr President, I would like to There are few questions at school that are easy to be either for or against. I do not think that the question of grades is useful either for or against, or for hitting each other in the head with different forms of more or less well-founded articles or opinions. Give the Swedish school the opportunity to have this as a step in improving the results! Stand up for those schools that want to be involved in experimental activities and who seriously want to improve results! The Center Party and the alliance parties think it is important that we raise teachers' competence in this area. It is teachers and principals, not various forms of political ideological positions, who have the opportunity to do so. You have to be able to compare with yourself. A school has a fairly long delivery time, for most pupils at least nine years in comprehensive school. It is clear that continuous monitoring is extremely important. But we can also see that a school that works with active development work compares itself to itself and can see that you are on the right track and developing this. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 3.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-402	Mr President, Members of Parliament and audiences! In 2015, the Swedish Research Council presented a research report in which the idea of early grades was sawed. Christian Lundahl has been mentioned earlier here in the speaker's chair. He is a professor of pedagogy, unlike the one who mentioned him. Lundahl led the work on the report and concluded with his colleagues that early grades have a negative impact on many students, especially those who have the most difficult in school. On the other hand, pupils perform better if they receive continuous feedback with positive information on how to improve their work. Even teachers and school leaders have expressed their concern and believe that the focus should be on measures that strengthen students' knowledge rather than on creating grade. Nevertheless, both the bourgeois parties and the government parties have chosen to continue with the grading experiment and also turn a blind eye to grading inflation without any support in research. When it comes to the Swedish National Agency for Education's evaluation of grades in grade 6 it is interesting that the Moderates look at it in one way while the researchers and Left Party look at it in another way. Teachers as well as pupils and guardians feel that different groups of students are affected by grades in different ways. High-performance pupils are more motivated than low-performing students. Several teachers describe in open comments that those students who find it difficult to reach the goals risk losing motivation or giving up altogether. As many as 77 percent of teachers say that students are more stressed now than before grades were introduced in grade 6. This picture is confirmed by students in grade 6. They state to a greater extent that they are more stressed now. There is no evidence to suggest that the grade stress in the higher grades is mitigated by getting the students used to grades at an earlier age. Those aren't my words. It is taken from the document where grades in grade 6 are evaluated. The Left Party has repeatedly proposed various measures to create an equivalent school with a focus on knowledge. However, Swedish schools should not go through sloppy hafsacks, even though obvious problems need to be addressed. We believe, for example, that the warnings of the Swedish National Agency for Education, the Swedish Research Council and the profession for early grades must be taken into account. Grades from grade 6 should be phased out within a couple of years, and the planned experiment should be scrapped. Instead, teachers should be given more scope to decide on different support measures to be implemented for children who fail to meet the knowledge objectives. One argument that has been used, mainly by the bourgeois parties, is that grades of lower ages could be an easier way for teachers and schools to put in support efforts. In what way does the Alliance believe that they have faith and confidence in our teaching staff today? Do they mean that our teaching staff today do not know what action should or should not be taken? At least I do not think that teachers and researchers agree with the Alliance on this issue. The problem today is not that teachers do not know what support measures need to be put in place. The problem is that for many years there have been major cuts and that the school does not have the power to take the necessary measures either. Thus, teachers need more influence and power. Grading inflation is a result of the interest in profit and rating and should be stopped as soon as possible. Students' knowledge should not be determined by the parents they have, the residential area in which they live or the competition between schools. It is a competition that has arisen as a result of the market experiment. The interest in profit must therefore be removed from the Swedish school, and the free choice of school must be changed from scratch. I would like to refer to an article on grades in grade 6 in the Teachers' Journal. We have a member of the committee, and also other members, who question one of Sweden's top school researchers, Christian Lundahl. But also Alli Klapp has written a thesis on this. She clearly shows the negative impact ratings have at lower ages. Then the question is: Is it a researcher that the Swedish Democrats and the alliance parties are against, or is it several? Finally, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2. The future of children is not only decided in the future. We can't just wait for results from experiments. It is decided today and on the basis of the decisions we make.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-414	Mr President, I would like to It was a pity that Daniel Riazat did not spend a little more time, because we were probably quite a lot of people thinking about what research references he had in his speech. What research references are there that say that the abolition of grades in grade 6 would mean that more students will receive more support early? What research references are there that say that the abolition of grades in grade 6 would mean that the focus on knowledge is clearer or that motivation becomes greater early in school? We are probably also many people who would like to hear Daniel Riazat think further about whether there is any connection between the absence of grades, evaluation and knowledge focus in Swedish schools for decades and the falling knowledge results that we have seen. It could be a coincidence. It can be a complete coincidence that during a time when we have gradually abolished grades in comprehensive school and removed the focus on knowledge, we have also received falling knowledge results in international comparisons. But it's not certain it's a coincidence. There may be a connection between grades and knowledge focus and early support. Mr President, I would like to I'm not asking for grades to suddenly become the focus and center and to the delight of the red-green. I also do not ask the red-greens to suddenly love grades or knowledge focus in school. But I ask for two things: on the one hand, that you keep the agreements you make with the Alliance, and, on the other hand, that you are at least curious about what it is that can raise the focus of knowledge and the results of knowledge. We need further reforms in Sweden in order to highlight the results. Over the past year, we have seen clear signs that something has happened. At least we are not falling, and some suggest that we have begun to lift a little in international investigations. Both Timss and PISA point to this. There are, of course, no obvious links between this and the reforms carried out by the Alliance, but it cannot be ruled out that the reforms carried out by the Alliance had an impact on those students who then in grade 8 conducted the PISA tests and showed that the results actually take off. Be curious! Sweden needs a policy that stabilizes what has happened but also continues to lift the results and ensures that more are included in this lift. We have heard earlier that grades in grade 6 have produced some effects, at least in the estimates that are now being made and the surveys that have been carried out. This has led to a clearer focus on knowledge. I think that's good. I want more of that. This has led to the detection of children in the past who need special support. I think that's good. I think we should continue to do that, but I think we should also ensure that the principals give the support that is really needed so that more people can succeed in school. It has given more motivation among the students. Eighty percent of students say that they are more motivated in school today when they receive grades in grade 6. A majority of teachers say that they notice that students are more motivated. Even parents find that the students are more motivated. I want more of this. I don't want any less of it. I want more of it. I don't understand how you can come to the conclusion that you should abolish grades in grade 6 when you see that it increases motivation, increases the focus of knowledge and increases the chances of discovering students who need more support. How can we conclude that we do not need more of this and propose less? That also applies, Mr President, to keeping the agreements that are being made. Otherwise, it will be more difficult for us to think about further agreements. Sometimes we need cross-block agreements. But when the government in this way quite clearly opposes the agreement we made on grades in grade 4, at least as a trial, it becomes difficult to evaluate it. It was quite clear that the agreement was opposed from ministerial to municipal level and said: we do not want to implement it. We are not going to do it, and we think it is stupid if schools in our municipality do it. That, of course, reduces interest. This reduces the ability to evaluate properly, and it reduces the chance to see the positive effects in schools that introduce grades earlier. Not only in the general debate, Mr President, but also in the bill, the agreement is abandoned. It's upsetting. You bring in things that are completely irrelevant. The evaluations that would give us the research support we need and information if we are to have early grades or not to be cheated when the government adds completely different criteria and completely different comparison material than it would in what is to be evaluated, i.e. if grades earlier will mean that more people will receive support earlier, that more people will get better knowledge results and that more people will be motivated. The opportunity to evaluate this is missing when the government suddenly adds other criteria for how to evaluate. It's very strange, it's very boring and it's actually quite upsetting. Mr President, I would like to The fact that we now get an attempt with grades in grade 4 I think can create opportunities. Above all, I hope that we will see some schools which, despite being opposed by red-green local politicians and rich politicians, are carrying out this experiment. Then we could see if it is that previous grades, for example in grade 4, provide additional motivation, additional ways to discover those students who need more support and further focus on knowledge. If we get that information, we know how to make sure that Swedish students' knowledge results continue to be taken up in international surveys. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-432	Mr President, I would like to The question I am going to put to Christer Nylander concerns the priority given to this issue. Christer says that this is not a priority issue, that it is not what will solve everything. Then it's strange that you're pushing it through. No matter how much you suggest that you disagree on this issue, this experiment is being carried out because of the agreement you made with the government. Researchers say that students who are having a tough time at school will get even tougher. As I said, it is not one or two researchers but, in principle, all the researchers who have spoken out on the matter. The teachers say the same thing and give the same picture. At the same time, we know that pupils' results depend very much on the socio-economic class they belong to and their parents' educational background. How can this be seen at all as a measure to change that situation? Weak-performing students, students who come from home conditions that simply don't contribute to the students' knowledge growth– in what way will this rating lead to something different for them? Another question I have is which scientists Christer Nylander, the Liberals, have talked to. The research that Jan Björklund referred to last year was from 1935 if I am not completely wrong. My question is: have you found any research that is at least from the late 90s or 80s, that is, a little closer in time?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-435	Mr President, I would like to I can start by referring to modern brain research. I think that Daniel Riazat should also read it and not just educational research. There is modern brain research that shows the need for structure and order in school. I also think that Daniel Riazat should look not only at research from the 1930s but also at proven activities. What is it in internationally proven activities that suggests that you should abolish grades and get higher knowledge results from it? That's my question to him. Mr President, I would like to Tell them it's the case that grades in grade 6 increase motivation. Eighty percent of the students felt that they were more motivated. Parents and teachers agreed that more were motivated. Is the conclusion, then, that one should ensure that no one is motivated by removing grades in grade 6? Is that better? Or should you use your strength to give extra support to those who do not feel motivated and think about how they will be motivated? Say that it is the case that at this early stage you discover students who need extra support, that grades in grade 6 means that you previously discover students who need special support. Is the conclusion, then, that you should remove the grades in grade 6 in order not to discover them, or is the conclusion that you should put effort into providing support to those who really need it?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-439	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Christer Nylander, even if you chose to talk about something completely different! Modern research and not only pedagogical research – absolutely, but here the research has a comprehensive picture that deals with pupils' health at school due to the impact of grade and grade on the results in school. There the overall research and profession agree that grades in grade 4 will not contribute to the development of knowledge, except for those students who already today have a very easy time in school. They don't get much better, but they get better. When it comes to special support, it is strange to stand here and say that teachers must have grades to know what needs the students have. That is not exactly what it looks like today. I believe that Mr Christer, like me, has met teachers who testify to the situation that has arisen, partly because of the competition that arises between schools and because of the grade, but also because the teachers feel that they do not have enough space, power and resources to put in the necessary efforts. Teachers today do not have problems evaluating what initiatives are needed for different students, but it is about giving them the tools. The grades will not affect at all whether a teacher is better in his profession or not. Instead, this will create more administration, more stress for the students – as the report from the Swedish National Agency for Education says – and even greater differences among Sweden's students. This concerns only 100 schools, but I think it is 100 schools too many. We will do everything we can to put an end to it.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-444	Mr President, I would like to It's a shame Daniel Riazat doesn't have any more lines. One gets a little puzzled: Does he have any alternative facts that show that the Swedish National Agency for Education is wrong when they say that grades in grade 6 have actually made those students who need special support discovered earlier? My conclusion is not that the grades in grade 6 should be removed so that these students are not discovered, but my message is that we should invest resources so that there is extra support for those who need it and more succeed in Swedish school. I think you should be curious about and follow research. In the report referred to by Daniel Riazat – I think it is on p. 124, but I do not remember, because it was two years ago that I read it – it is also clear that there are major problems with educational research; we do not know exactly. According to the researchers who have compiled this, the studies on which the conclusion is based are flawed, which makes it difficult to draw clear conclusions. I think you should be a little curious about historical research. I believe that in pedagogy, 17th-century philosophers like John Locke are still being studied and probably also modern psychology research from the 20th century and some brain research from the 21st century. There are many different research reports that show a little different things. Let us take everything into this, but let us not turn a blind eye to the empirical reality. The Swedish National Agency for Education has conducted a study of the effects of grades in grade 6. It showed that 80 percent of the students felt more motivated. The teachers and parents agreed. Previously, those who needed extra support were discovered. Unfortunately, it was not inserted; I think it should be done. It can also be seen that there was a clearer focus on knowledge. My conclusion, Mr President, is: let us have more of this, not less!
i-4d46c44ff974b017-448	Mr President, I would like to Let's move back ten years. It is in the middle of the semester at a school in Sweden, perhaps in Skövde. It's time for development talks in grade 7. The parents are curious and anxious to know how they are doing at school. The class teacher has received some support from the different teaching teachers in order to give a picture of the student's/child's knowledge development. It is best to know how well the goals are met and what is needed for the student to develop further. But it could also be that the message during the conversation is: You may be having a bit of a problem with math, but I think it'll be okay if you make a little more effort next semester. ..................................................... Now let's move a year ahead of time, to the autumn semester of grade 8. Suddenly, both the student and the guardian, for the first time in black and white, fail to achieve the goals of approval, as it was then called. Suddenly something comes up to the student: I may not get into that desirable high school program. Not infrequently, the motivation increases significantly in order to devote more time to school work. What I describe is not alternative facts but a true, self-perceived reality. Mr President, I would like to Against this background, it is very good that the academic year 2012/ 13 introduced grades in grade 6. Rating is an important tool for providing pupils and parents with information on how the student relates to the school's learning goals. The grades should be clear and contribute to continuous follow-up and evaluation of students' knowledge, communication of the results with homes and early deployment of support. That is the main reason for giving grades earlier: to be able to put in support earlier during schooling for those who do not pass certain parts. Again, we can look at Finland, which is a good example. It is not stigmatising to need the help of a specialist teacher from time to time, and it is applied for shorter or longer periods of need. Mr President, I would like to Today we will decide on a trial with grades in grade 4. The aim is to gain a better knowledge base on the effects of grades on students' learning and knowledge outcomes. Experimental activities shall be based on voluntary activity. School policy should be based on a scientific basis, and the Christian Democrats' line has always been to carefully evaluate the grades in grade 6 to see if they have an effect on the knowledge results. I see no problem with the schools that so wish being included in a trial with grades from grade 4. This may be done if there is interest in the school's principal and teacher, and in consultation with the parents. The results will be studied, and we will have double evaluations. But I would like to point out from the Christian Democrats in this context that there are many more important issues to address in order to raise the results in Swedish schools, such as the regulation of the hourly plan so that students are guaranteed the teaching time they are entitled to, the upgrading of the teaching profession and the recruitment of the right people to the teacher education. With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 3.
i-Lq7yzK6eBsFdC6MvdiBWrV	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the UbU10 report on a limited experimental activity with grades from grade 4 and rejection of all reservations. Up to 100 schools may participate in the proposed experimental activities. In the bill you can read that a principal should only be allowed to participate if there is an interest in this with the relevant headmaster and teacher. The principal should have consulted parents by giving them the opportunity to speak, and the students should also have the opportunity to speak. No principal can participate with more than 25% of his schools. The participant in the trial activities is not subject to the requirement to draw up written individual development plans. But it is of course possible to draw up plans if the school principal judges that the students need this. Mr President, I would like to Several parties have now stood before me in the speaker's seat. Two of them do not like the agreement between the government and the four bourgeois parties, for diametrically different reasons. Four bourgeois representatives might have wanted a little different, but for various reasons they have nevertheless chosen to make a broad agreement with the government instead of changing the grading system by the small margin that the majority with SD would mean. I hope they made the agreement for the same reasons as the government: that school needs long-term rules of play and focus on reforms and changes that really give students better opportunities to improve their performance and raise the level of knowledge. Mr President, I would like to Although I and the Social Democrats are behind the agreement, regardless of what some have said here in the speaker's chair, it feels important to say in the speaker's chair that our attitude towards early grades in primary school has not fundamentally changed. The reasons are several because we take a restrictive stance and actually think that grades in grade 6 are sufficient – an opinion that was, incidentally, shared by both the Center Party and the Christian Democrats just before the end of 2013/14, less than a year before the elections. First of all, there is no research showing the positive impact of early grades in other ways than that it may benefit already strong students and disadvantage the weak in a way where the profit is no greater than the loss. Another drawback is that grades train students to be driven by external rewards and an external motivation rather than developing their own driving forces, which are probably so important in a future working life and social commitment. Grading researcher Alli Klapp at the University of Gothenburg examined the effects of grades in grade 6. Among other things, she found that low-performing students who received grades in grade 6 received worse grades in seventh grade than low-performing students who did not receive grades in grade 6. In an interview in the Teacher's newspaper, Klapp also says that young children find it difficult to distinguish between person and performance. The risk is that they experience it as double punishment, and when the grade shows the failure black and white, it risks affecting self-image and learning. Here I think Ulrika Carlsson in the Center Party wise reflections that grades can look very different comes in handy. We have a very rigid view that grades are a letter or a number. Now we have letters, but earlier we had numbers. In many of the countries that have early grades, especially in grades 1 to 3, the grades look more like Swedish written reviews. This is a perspective to have with you when we discuss grades. Of course we should have knowledge monitoring, and of course it should be done with regularity. But the discussion on how best to do this must continue, not least in dialogue with the profession. Now we in committee, and hopefully eventually in this House too, have agreed on a read-write-count guarantee and also on individual development plans and discussions, which are described in a slightly different way here in the speaker chair but basically are about giving students and parents a greater understanding of how close they have come to the knowledge goals they are expected to achieve. Mr President, I would like to Often grades are described as the way to know how a student is located and as the way to get extra support. However, there is rather little evidence that this is true. In the Swedish National Agency for Education's evaluation of introduced grades in grade 6, a majority felt that they knew already before the grade what shortcomings and needs the students had. Afterwards they said that you knew even more than you knew before, but I can still feel: If it is already clear to a teacher, can it become even clearer? It should also be said that almost half said that those with grades knew more, but yet we cannot see that more people have been given access to support. It is an image that is reinforced by the fact that in other countries it is unusual that the grades are aimed at identifying pupils in need of support. Instead, the teacher is expected to discover in his teaching what needs the students have and who need extra support. Let me also take this opportunity to say that it sometimes sounds like all countries except Sweden have early grades. But in international comparison it may be worth recalling that both Finland and Estonia, which are among the top ten in PISA, have compulsory grades only from grade 8. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by saying that we Social Democrats thought that we constructively invited when grades were introduced in grade 6 in 2012, firmly convinced that the grade debate would be toned down in favour of other incentives, tools, proposals and methods. I feel a little fooled in that respect. The bourgeoisie, now eagerly encouraged by the Swedish democrats, apparently saw only grades from grade 6 as a partial victory, without any will to cease fire. I therefore hope that this agreement and proposal will give the school a sense of confidence on the issue of grades, at least for some time to come. Above all, we must ensure that all students receive the support they need to reach even further than they think is possible.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-470	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I am not sure whether I was just talking about the reservation we had or whether I was also in favour of it. I didn't, no. Then I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. Thank you, Lena Hallengren, for your speech on the bill! I think we agree on a number of things. One thing is very certain: If Sweden is to continue to grow and compete with knowledge, our students must learn more in school. Therefore, we need more skilled teachers who have more time with our students. We need more teaching time in primary school, and we need more mathematics and sport. At the same time, one cannot turn a blind eye to the impact of grades on students' learning. The most important thing we can see in the evaluation of grades in grade 6 is that 80 percent of students report increased motivation. This means that most of the students see that there is an effect of increased motivation in grades. Both Lena Hallengren and I are now trained teachers. After several hours in the classroom, I can say that there are a number of different things that we need to work on. It is not that grades are in focus or a goal in itself, as it was described. But we need to work with a lot of things where grades should be a certificate of knowledge for our students. Therefore, I would like to ask Lena Hallengren: Do you see that grades are part of this, as a certificate of knowledge and support for students' knowledge development at all?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-474	Mr President, I would like to I abstained from mentioning various types of efforts and reforms that the government has made to try to highlight the results in school. Just as Camilla Waltersson Grönvall says, it is absolutely necessary to achieve not only that students reach a little further but that all students reach as far as possible. I hope that in my speech, however, it emerged that we need to have knowledge follow-up in different ways. I think, however, that we lock ourselves a little too much in that it should be just grades and that grades in turn should be a number or a letter. I think it would be wise, when we still have experiments in place and of course we should continue with knowledge follow-up discussions politically and within the framework of the profession, to think about how we even better follow-up knowledge. This should not only be done at national level on the basis of national tests, but also on how each student should be able to understand and have a way of knowing how they are located and can improve their knowledge goals. But above all, the evaluation of grades in sixth grade black and white showed that students do not get the support they need. If the teachers already knew this, they now know even better that the students have needs. Yet students do not get the support they need. Why is this, and what can we do to correct this? I think we should try to broaden the discussion to focus on what follow-up is, what grades are and how this could actually be met. It is important to see that it looks different at different levels. It is not a social democrat who has proposed that we remove any grades in either high school or high school. But when you crawl down into the ages and the children are smaller, you get a different approach to grades and numbers and the results they show.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-477	Mr President, I would like to I can share Lena Hallengren's concern that we can clearly see that the students do not get the support they need, but we may draw some different conclusions. I note that it is even more important for the grades to show this clearly. After all, the problem is not the grades but that we do not have sufficient support functions to meet those students who do not get the support they need, which in itself is serious and, at least at the moment, ultimately the responsibility of the government. You often speak warmly of broad agreements and also call yourself the cooperation government. We in the Moderates and the Alliance sitting here have been very keen to find solutions to the problems and challenges we face. We have also participated in discussions and deliberations to find broad agreements. Unfortunately, I have to say that the government has not always been interested in keeping its promises and commitments. In my world it is like this: If you are to find new agreements, you must be able to trust that there is trust and that you live up to the agreements that already exist. This applies whether it is about the requirements of free schools, to facilitate new arrivals or to broaden the knowledge base in the case of previous grades, for example. In fact, the Social Democrats have failed the agreements on which we have shaken hands. Therefore, my final question to Lena Hallengren is – and I would really like to appeal to you to take it seriously: what is an agreement really worth to the Social Democrats, and can we trust that you will live up to the agreements that we conclude if we now sit at the negotiating table?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-481	Mr President, I would like to It is good if we have a common ambition to find solutions to common challenges. I am sure that the professional federations are pleased about this. As far as newcomers are concerned, I have to say that I do not understand what Camilla Waltersson Grönvall is talking about – if someone has failed some kind of agreement. We will have to talk about this outside the Chamber, because Camilla is not entitled to any more reply. I thought, however, that the question of aesthetic learning processes would come. Because it didn't, I'm gonna take it. When it comes to the evaluation of the experimental activities themselves, there was a lot of criticism in the consultation round. If you have a voluntary attempt, the question is: How should you really understand those results? What is the comparison group like? Should it be a group that you choose based on that it has chosen to work with something else or with some other model? For example, I would like to emphasise that. It feels important to say. I would also like to say that the mission to the Swedish National Agency for Education will not be designed in any way that makes an evaluation impossible, but this has been a way of trying to meet the criticism of referrals that says that voluntary experimentation does not provide the right comparison. Then it's about trusting agreements. I find it difficult to see what other agreements Camilla Waltersson Grönvall is talking about. I myself mentioned in conclusion in my speech that we made an agreement on grades in grade 6. We thought we'd meet. We went beyond what we had in mind. But we hadn't even had time to evaluate grades in sixth grade until we had grades in fourth grade. I think Camilla Waltersson Grönvall and the rest of the Alliance can take it with them. What does it mean that we are actually making changes and deciding to evaluate them? Should we look at those evaluations before we take the next step or not?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-486	Mr President, I would like to What motivates children to seek knowledge? My absolute opinion is that it is their curiosity about the environment and their willingness to understand the state of things. Children want to know, and they want an explanation of how things belong. For our educators it is a great challenge to give young people access to the riddles' solution. For our children, tests, assessments, and grades can be the source of curiosity, especially if they confirm that they have not fully understood. That a little more time and other methods may be needed is rarely a comfort to the one who always comes last. It can be difficult to find the motivation to continue working. I do not mean that there should not be a continuous evaluation of knowledge – far from it. However, I believe that it should be communicated in such a way that it benefits the young student's development, stimulates curiosity and provides strategies for how to access the desirable knowledge and move forward. Of course, the guardian must be involved in this process. Many times the educators also need to support the adults in the student's knowledge journey. Sometimes it may be that it is their joint journey – the guardian's and the pupil's. My conviction is that students who go to schools where the classes are not too large, where there are many adults with varying skills around the students, where there are competent teachers and where relevant support is provided when the need arises, feels secure in their knowledge development and wants to learn. The school should promote students' development and learning and give the lifelong desire to continue seeking knowledge. I do not believe that grades are what benefits the development of knowledge, and I am not alone. There is no research at all that shows that previous grades have a positive impact on students' learning. On the other hand, research shows that low-performing and younger students can have negative development and perform worse. This is what Johanna Jaara Åstrand, Chairman of the Teacher Association, says. The National Association of Teachers points out that there is a great scepticism among teachers to previous grades. Mr President, I would like to A compromise was made between the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party and the Alliance Parties. The school law's regulated grade age remains as it is today, i.e. it is from grade 6. A pilot activity is carried out where schools are given the opportunity to give grades from grade 4. The entire new grading system is evaluated and reported in a control station before the Riksdag 2020. In those grades where grades are not given, written individual development plans shall instead be drawn up. In a written individual development plan, the teacher shall give judgements on the student's knowledge development in relation to the knowledge requirements in the subjects in which the student is taught, and summarise what efforts are needed to enable the student to reach the knowledge requirements and otherwise develop as far as possible within the framework of the curriculum. The Swedish National Agency for Education coordinates the experiment with grades from grade 4, and the application for participation is submitted by the school principal to the Swedish National Agency for Education. One condition is that there is interest in the school's management and teachers and that consultation has taken place with the parents. The basic principle is that the applications received shall be granted if they meet the criteria. The Swedish National Agency for Education will work to ensure that the experimental activities are conducted in schools with different student compositions and that an appropriate geographical spread takes place. The National Agency for Education may grant participation in the experimental activities for a maximum of one quarter of the schools within one applicant school head and for a maximum of 100 participating schools in total throughout the country. In the grades where grades are given, the obligation to issue IUPs – written reviews – is waived. The trial will begin in 2017 at the latest. The experimental activities are monitored and evaluated on an ongoing basis by the Swedish National Agency for Education or another authority. Special budgetary resources are allocated to the experiment. Now it remains to be seen how the experimental activity develops and what conclusions can be drawn from it. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-495	Mr President, I would like to I requested a reply for a single reason. I would like to hear the representative of the Minister for Education's party in this debate engaged and, with leadership, call on environmentalists around the country to ensure that this experiment is successful. Mr President, I would like to I wonder if we can hear the environmental party stone in this debate say encouraging and encouraging words to the environmental partners around the country: take part in this study! Take part in this experiment! Make sure that it is a trial that is successful and from which we can draw conclusions!
i-4d46c44ff974b017-497	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Christer Nylander, for the question or for the call! What I say to everyone who is around the schools is: if there are teachers and parents who want to and if there is a basis for wanting to participate in the experiment, it is possible. It's voluntary. Everyone has the opportunity to participate – if you want. I have no reason as a representative and as a Member of Parliament to call on someone to do this or that, but my job is to be good at explaining what that means. Then it's voluntary. Everyone in the schools has to draw that conclusion.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-499	Mr President, I would like to Sing out, Elisabet Knutsson! Tell me! Tell your environmental friends around the country: I want this study to succeed. I want the experiment to succeed, because I want to be able to draw conclusions from it. It is therefore important that there are 100 schools divided between different parts of the country and with different challenges involved in this. If you have entered into an agreement, you must want it to be successful and can be carried out so that you can draw conclusions from the evaluation you then make. Sing out!
i-4d46c44ff974b017-501	Mr President, I would like to That is a problem, because I do not believe that the agreement is toned down.
i-eb3e5ecdca32f12e-0	Let's do it together. ) Yeah, but I don't know what tone it's in. What I'm thinking is that we've made a deal, and we stand for it. What is then the task in the country is to take it to heart, and it is for you and us that we should give people that freedom. It is voluntary, and it is in the discussions that are held in the teacher's room, in the headmaster's colleges and among parents that that decision should be made. It is they who should have the right to do so from their own perspective.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-504	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask some further question to Elisabet Knutsson on the basis of the possibility of early follow-up. In the agreement between the government and the alliance parties it is both about assessment support in grade 1 when it comes to Swedish and math and the opportunity to give previous grades. As it becomes clearer in grade 6 that there is a greater need for special support and also a greater opportunity for parents to use that knowledge of their child to wish the school to meet this need for special support, does not Elisabet Knutsson believe that it is important for both children and parents to be given the opportunity even earlier to actually ask for the support needed? We see today that many schools in principle require a diagnosis in order to have access to specific support. This would also be possible on the basis of a knowledge base. Elisabet Knutsson raised many questions at the beginning of her speech, such as what drives children to know and that sometimes you may need a little more time. However, one does not really have time to wait a number of years, but what is needed is perhaps a little more time each week, and therefore the trial activity with grades from grade 4 would actually benefit early follow-ups with a greater clarity towards children and parents about what needs actually exist so that parents have more opportunity towards school to basically demand increased support for one's children to achieve, for example, grade E.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-507	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Ulrika Carlsson! I'm a teacher, too. I have also been in the school world and met students who haven't really followed and parents who have been disappointed and talk about extra support and so on. I think that it is somehow a little overrated, because if there are no resources to put in for special needs, it will not help anyway. There are schools where you require diagnosis, and then you make a diagnosis, but then there are still no resources to put in. So I think that if you grade and there are still not enough special educators or people around in the business, it does not matter so much with grades or not. Whether students are in need of more support, we do not need grades to know, because educators have known that for a long time. So I'm thinking it's not about grades, it's about resources to support the students.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-511	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Knutsson, for that answer! This gives both students and parents an opportunity to find out very early how they need to support their child. Annika Eclund mentioned a real situation in which they did not really know what they had achieved. Instead, you've been told, so to speak, with happy calls and a pat on your shoulder, that it'll probably be all right, little buddy, as long as you get your act together. It is not a response that helps our children to perform better and understand what they need to do. In the best of worlds we can surely feel that children are driven to knowledge and only need further encouragement and so on, but when you look at reality, as also mentioned by Elisabet Knutsson, we see that there are no resources to put in for special support. However, if it becomes clearer what kind of support needs to be put in place to help children reach the targets, does it not also become clearer what redistribution of resources can be made? In this way, this experimental activity could really help to focus on the need to redistribute resources. We know that the issue is not only about children who do not have such good abilities but also about some high-performance children whose opportunities are not really visible in school. If grading takes place earlier, it also gives another opportunity to follow up the work carried out in different classrooms in order to be able to focus on quality issues so that you can set up the business in such a way that students really reach as far as possible. In this way, the grades could be one of the pieces of the puzzle to actually strengthen the quality of the Swedish school. What does Elisabet Knutsson think about this?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-516	Mr President, I would like to I think that the grade can also be a piece of the puzzle in turning off some students at an early age, and then it's not so good. When it comes to grades, I think that there is also something called grade inflation. Grades are not an exact science. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that I am proud that the government is making a substantial effort towards more adults in school as well as more special education. Together with this experiment, we will be able to evaluate it in a few years' time and see where we land.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-519	Mr President, I would like to Several in this debate have mentioned the evaluation of grades from grade 6 that the Swedish National Agency for Education did in 2016. It was 2 000 teachers who responded to that survey, and an important result of it was that half of the teachers actually said that it is easier to detect students in need of support. In my world, if so many teachers find it easier to identify students in need of special support, it is enough that one should at least be curious if grades in grade 4 can actually lead to us discovering more children earlier. More than half of the teachers also indicated that they can see that high-performance students have improved knowledge development. I find it a little strange that, for example, Daniel Riazat dismisses it as something negative. In my world, all students have the right to a good knowledge development and challenges, and here we see that high-performance students, according to teachers' judgement, actually get a better knowledge development. Both of these results I think weigh very heavily for us to make a serious evaluation of grades from grade 4. As I said, we have a cooperation government, which we call ourselves. If you have cooperation and make agreements, you should also keep them, which is something that many have lifted, and so I think that the government's handling of this experimental activity is extremely strange. When the agreement was announced, government representatives began to talk for themselves about the stamping of children and all sorts of things and they did not express themselves positively about grades at all. On the other hand, local representatives of government parties go out and say more or less that they will ban the principals of their municipalities from being involved in this experimental activity. I have not heard a representative of the government parties reply to whether it is considered a serious way of dealing with agreements entered into that the representatives of the government party immediately when the agreement is signed and announced go out in such harsh terms. This applies both to ministers but above all to local representatives. I find it extremely strange. It is very sad that considering the evaluation of grades in grade 6 you do not want to do a proper, serious trial with grades from grade 4. What if we can find more students? The fact that students do not receive the support they need is a completely different matter. It's a common problem we have. It's more about knowledge than resources. But it is clear that more resources may also be needed. It is a lot about the knowledge of teachers and principals about how to provide support in a good way. But that is a completely different question. What is important in order to be able to deploy support at all is to know which students are in need of it. When the evaluation of grades from grade 6 so clearly shows that there are more students who are being identified, I hope that despite the fact that the government parties have so actively tried to counteract the experimental activities, we can still get a serious evaluation of grades from grade 4 on trials at the 100 schools that are now in place.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-528	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing an issue that concerns many changes that are important in terms of country-by-country reporting in the field of taxation. I would like to start by saying that the Left Party essentially thinks that the proposal is good and that the development that is taking place in this area is a positive development. The tax evasion causes enormous damage and leads to major problems both for the population of the poor part of the world and for the population of the richer parts of the world, where tax evasion is hundreds of billions. One of the important things that could be done and that is underway in EU cooperation is to work on public country-by-country reporting in the tax field. The Left Party has on many occasions argued for the public country-by-country reporting but unfortunately sees that the Swedish Government is not acting in favour of a public country-by-country reporting but in the EU is acting contrary to that approach. That is why it has been important for us, also on the basis of some other issues that we have raised in our reservation, to reserve ourselves against the decision. Getting to grips with tax evasion is important not just on the basis of the money that disappears. It is also important to maintain legitimacy and tax morality. It has turned out that the systems currently in place are not enough to stop the massive tax evasion that affects all of us. The biggest villains in the drama are the big companies that with aggressive tax planning, which is helped by the absence of a public country-by-country reporting, combs multibillion-dollar profits by successfully reducing their taxes. Public country-by-country reporting would allow many more people to learn the results that will now come with the automatic exchange of information. It could also put pressure on both politicians and companies to correct the systemic errors that exist. I therefore support the Left Party's reservation on this issue.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-533	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating SCU14 transfer pricing documentation and country-by-country reporting in the tax area. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. The bill proposes the implementation of the OECD Standard for Transfer Pricing Documentation and Country-by-Country Reporting. The proposal introduces provisions on country-by-country reports in the field of taxation and the automatic exchange of such reports between tax authorities of EU Member States and between tax authorities of the States and jurisdictions that have signed the multilateral agreement on the exchange of country-by-country reports. The proposal means that multinational groups with a turnover of more than SEK 7 billion for each tax jurisdiction in which they operate shall submit country-by-country reports that shall include, among other things, income, profit before income tax, paid and accumulated income tax and the number of employees. The proposals also bring transfer pricing documentation rules into line with the OECD's new standard. The provisions are proposed to enter into force on 1 April 2017. Mr President, I would like to The fact that the large groups do not pay the tax they should morally do is a problem. Avoiding tax becomes an unjustifiable competitive advantage, and smaller and nation-based companies wonder why they should pay more tax than their larger competitors or companies to which they are subcontractors. As a social democrat, it is gratifying to be part of the world-wide work against tax evasion and tax evasion that is currently taking place. We do not have to go far back in time to get to a time where greedy forces seemed to be overpowering and tax havens unthreated. The world order is now another. After Luxleaks, Swissleaks and Panama documents, along with a series of other revelations, the extent of tax evasion has been revealed among the public. The response to these perpetrators is equally obedient worldwide: Your days are over. Now is the time for order and justice.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-536	Mr President, I would like to I have an important question for Erik in my view. The government puts in the proposal a limit value that is very high for one to be included in the reporting. This is about SEK 7 billion. The EU limit value for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), which are those that one might want to access, is significantly less than SEK 7 billion. Why does the government think that level is reasonable? As a result, a very large proportion of companies – up to 80%, 90% – will not be subject to the automatic reporting obligation.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-537	Mr President, I would like to I would say that what is now being proposed for country-by-country reporting and transfer pricing is a rather pioneering breakthrough for a new and global tax regime characterised by increased fairness. The Left Party has a number of additional requirements for country-by-country reporting, and several of them are not wrong. It certainly gives many applause to various aid and solidarity organisations that have engaged in the fight against global tax evasion. The problem, however, is that it is never enough and there is always something more. I would like to ask the Left: are you prepared to defend compromises and accept a slightly lower standard precisely because it is difficult to gather a majority or unanimity for something else?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-540	Mr President, I would like to Now you did not really answer the question why it is reasonable to have a limit of 7 billion that lets over 90% of companies. It may be that you perceive this as a trick to satisfy aid organizations. I would like to remind Erik Ezelius that, in the run-up to the elections, his own party, the Social Democrats, in the survey that Diakonia sent out to the Social Democrats, felt that a great deal of the demands that the Left Party is currently pursuing were reasonable. Was it only whale freckles on your part to answer the survey in this way? I think you should stand by what you have said in election times. Then there are a number of different requirements that are crucial. This applies, for example, to the fact that many companies are subject to this in order not to be able to use tax avoidance methods. 7 billion is a totally unreasonable level. The second issue is public country-by-country reporting. Let me remind Erik that the survey already felt that public country-by-country reporting was an extremely important and good requirement. Now you're backing away from it. It is even the case that the Swedish Government is one of the governments most opposed to public country-by-country reporting in the EU. Other countries are contacting us today and wondering: What does the Swedish government really do? If you really want to put an end to the tax evasion that exists, you must want to do something that is more than what is in the proposal.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-544	Mr President, I would like to There is an answer that is quite consistent with the questions raised by Daniel Sestrajc. It is necessary to strive for as much a level playing field as possible in the implementation of anti-avoidance and anti-avoidance measures. It is true that derogations may need to be made on the basis of different conditions. Most obviously for Sweden and 27 other European countries is the fact that we are members of the European Union. It is a question of balancing, on the one hand, between following the OECD BEPS recommendations and, on the other hand, adapting implementation to our own circumstances, such as the internal market. My assessment is that the government in its negotiations with the other Member States has nevertheless succeeded well. However, we know that we have more to wait in the field of tax evasion, and that is why it is important to follow closely the proposals that will also come forward. The open country-by-country reporting has Daniel and I debated earlier. The issue is currently being dealt with by the Council. Let us not anticipate this discussion but come back to this at a later date.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-547	Mr President, I would like to When the new Cash Register Act was introduced on 1 January 2010, it required a certified cash register – this in order to protect serious cash traders against illegal competition. It is important that this work progresses, but the conditions for using cash registers vary. Even when the Cash Register Act was adopted, it was stated that exceptions would be made in a generous way. That has not been the case. The latest information I have said that only 5 out of 1 800 applications have received a yes. The idea of the legislation was never that activities that have no practical opportunity to comply with the cash register requirement would be forced to close. From a societal perspective, it is important that control activities are not allowed to take over and control which economic activities may exist. Madam President, I would like Let me highlight a small industry in both the agricultural sector and the tourism industry. A recent report from the Swedish Parliament's investigation service shows that the Swedish farm is very much alive. Fäbodbruk is important in animal husbandry as well as tourism and cultural heritage activities. By a judgment given, farmers are now granted an exemption from the use of cash registers. It is a welcome decision that means that the decision-making power has listened to the intentions of the law. Tin Gumun in Vikarbyn, Dalarna, has waged a long fight against the Swedish Tax Agency and the demands that her farm operations have a digital register even though she lacks both electricity and 4G coverage. Last summer there was a judgment in the Administrative Court of Appeal that gave Tin Gumun's right against the Swedish Tax Agency. She thus received an exemption from the requirement for a digital cash register until 31 December 2018. Madam President, I would like My basic position is that farmhouses with live pasture production should generally be exempt from the requirement of register. Madam President, I would like In a new proposal, the Government proposes an amendment to the rules on cash register obligations. The amendment means that traders without a permanent establishment shall no longer be exempt from the obligation to use cash registers if the sale is made against cash payment or payment by credit card. I think it's good, and it should be said. However, one problem with the proposal is that, according to the expert body, it does not meet the requirements for regulatory impact assessment. Moreover, the government has failed to first evaluate the contested rules before proposing that the same rules be extended. The legislation introduced in 2010 has been developed both through legislation and through interpretation and practice. All in all, this points to the need for a fundamental evaluation of legislation. Madam President, I would like I request approval of the Alliance's reservation signed by the Center Party, the Moderates, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-557	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for our common alliance reservation to be approved. This proposal takes another step towards more equal competition in the cash industry. This means that a trader without a permanent establishment in Sweden should no longer be exempted from the obligation to use certified cash registers if sales are made through cash payments or payment by credit card. Accepted cash registers purchased in another EEA country may be used. Companies that operate in Sweden without having a permanent establishment are mainly market and market stores, but also sales that take place in temporary rented premises. It is a welcome step in strengthening competition on equal terms, and we share the intentions of the bill. But it would have been appropriate first to evaluate how the existing law works in practice. Madam President, I would like The background is that anyone selling goods or services for cash payment since 1 January 2010 must have a certified cash register. Cash payments also include payment by credit card. Exemptions apply, among other things, to taxis, distance and home sales, the sale of goods or services against payment in automatic and automatic games. Furthermore, the law does not apply to those who sell only insignificantly goods or services for cash payment. It is clear from the work of the Act that the scope of the act is insignificant for two different situations. One is whether it is doubtful whether the costs incurred by requiring a certified cash register are proportionate to the social benefits of improved tax control for the smallest companies. The second situation concerns companies where cash sales only occur in exceptional cases. Madam President, I would like A clarification was then made in the Tax Procedure Act, which states that, from 1 January 2012, when assessing whether sales are insignificant, special consideration shall be given to whether the sale normally amounts to, or is likely to amount to, a maximum of four price base amounts in a tax year. The general exemption in the Tax Procedure Act from the obligation to use cash registers for market and market trade was abolished on 1 January 2014. At the same time, the Swedish Tax Agency was given more opportunity to grant exemptions from various obligations relating to cash registers in individual cases. Exemptions from obligations relating to cash registers were extended to non-technical reasons where a certain obligation may be considered unfair. Per Åsling illustrated an example of such problems. There have been and are technical problems with electronics due to coverage and weather conditions. But the equipment has become safer and more reliable, and on the Swedish Tax Agency's website you can clearly read about and when exceptions can be granted in full or in part. Some obligation regarding cash registers can be considered unfair. However, there must be very clear cases if derogations are to be granted. It is not enough for sales to take place outdoors and under difficult weather conditions. It is therefore very difficult to obtain exceptions. Nor is it enough that there is no electricity at the point of sale, just as Per Åsling told us in his example. If the entrepreneur has both store sales and sales in squares, cash registers should be used in both locations even if the sale in the square is less than four price base amounts.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-570	In connection with the expansion to market and market trade, the Government stated that the evidence presented by the Swedish Tax Agency indicates that the legislation on cash registers has been successful and that more companies compete on equal terms. However, since the introduction of the legislation, criticism has been levelled at the exemption for market and market trade, which includes exceptions for so-called temporary trade. The comments can be summed up by the fact that the exemption distorts competition and penalises fixed trade, which is subject to the requirement of registers. The criticism also referred to the fact that the special powers of the Tax Agency during verification visits apply only to companies which are or may be presumed to be subject to the legislation on cash registers. Those who sell goods in stores must have cash registers, and so, of course, should those who sell similar goods outdoors, perhaps on the sidewalk, also have. Today, the Swedish Tax Agency cannot carry out an adequate review of cash sales in companies that do not use cash registers, as there is no information in the accounts on individual sales. The Swedish Tax Agency has made the conservative estimate that there are a dark number of foreign companies that are not registered for VAT but that are trading in squares, markets and fairs. Madam President, I would like The majority of the consultation bodies support the proposal or have no objections to it, and that is a good thing. For example, the National Association of the Flower Industry writes that if there is to be a serious flower trade in Sweden, it is important that the exception for foreign ambulant entrepreneurs is removed. On the other hand, several consultation bodies have argued that an independent evaluation should have been carried out on the effects of the cash registers introduced to date. That's exactly what we think-- that's a flaw in the bill. An evaluation should be carried out of the actual impact of the previously introduced cash register obligation as well as a thorough impact assessment on the impact of the proposal on the entrepreneurs concerned. The Council is clear that the impact assessment is inadequate. Among other things, it is noted that the government does not present any alternatives other than the only one contained in the bill. It must be in the interest of politics that inadequate impact assessments be improved before the Riksdag decides on new rules for companies. The decisions risk becoming more costly for companies and, moreover, do not have the effect at a lower cost that we want to see.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-577	Madam President, I would like The Tax Committee's report on increased competition on equal terms in the cash industry is based on a government proposal aimed at creating the same conditions for foreign traders operating in Sweden, without having a permanent establishment here, as for Swedish traders. This is achieved by including these operators in the requirement to use a certified cash register. In essence, it can be said that the proposal meets with foreign operators who travel around and engage in trade on markets and similar events. It is important to create competition neutrality in trade, both between traders with a permanent establishment and those without a permanent establishment, and between different categories of traders who do not have a permanent establishment in Sweden. The purpose of the bill is therefore well-lawed, and we support the basic ideas in it. Both the fixed and the market and market- and market-trade sectors, the so-called cash sector, are at risk of being disadvantaged by rogue traders who do not pay VAT and tax on their revenues. That is the basic reason why the Cash Register Act has come into being, and we think that is a good thing. But, Madam President, the so-called cash business is a bit special. It has turned out that it is so special that the government does not understand how it works. That is the background to this bill which, if implemented, risks damaging Sweden's international reputation. One reason for this lack of insight by the government is likely that the trade is taking place in a bit odd places. It can be in a Christmas market or out in a Christmas market in snowstorms, cold or sun. It can be in Kivik's market with fine sand that dizzy around the market stalls or in the spring market in Vimmerby a rainy May weekend. Trade can take place on Jokkmokk's market in half-dark and minus 34 degrees cold. It can be a salt-stained brew market in Lysekil or a hot late summer day with 28 degrees heat and 90 percent humidity on Skänninge market. All these conditions and many other variations on the theme make the Cash Register Act impossible to follow in very many situations. The reason why it is not possible to comply with the law is that there is not a sufficient range of cash registers that can cope with these, technically, difficult conditions. This in turn is because cash registers are not built for outdoor use and are not classified according to IP44 or higher, which is a requirement for that particular situation. If the equipment is not, it must not be used outside if it is too cold, too hot, too damp or too dry or anything else that makes it impractical or incorrect. The risks here are about electrical safety, that is, there is a danger to life and health if you do wrong. This also means that warranty conditions are eliminated and business insurance does not apply. This puts traders in a very difficult position. Problems arising from these special conditions may, for example, be displays that cannot be read, receipt printers that do not work or do not deliver sufficiently readable receipts, fine mechanics and keypads such as sheaves and much more. There may also, as I said before, be a danger to life and health due to electrical failure. To sum up, these conditions make it illegal in many cases to comply with the Cash Register Act as soon as the trade takes place outdoors. Since the cash registers are not designed for outdoor use and therefore do not comply with the requirements for electrical safety, there is a risk of breaching the regulations on electrical safety and high penalty payments are imposed by the Swedish Work Environment Authority. It's actually happened. This undermines the whole purpose of the law. Madam President, I would like What this has to do with the current proposal is questionable. With today's situation, we have put the cash industry in an almost impossible position. They cannot act correctly according to the laws and rules they must follow. And now, quite correctly in essence, we are going to force foreign players in the Swedish cash market to get into the same boat. This means that a cheese merchant from France who comes to a market in Skåne to sell his cheeses must obtain a certified cash register to be used when selling his products at a number of market times. If he doesn't, he risks a juicy inspection fee from the IRS. If he buys a cash register that is not IP44 classified and then uses it, he risks, as I said earlier, being sentenced to pay a high penalty payment to the Swedish Work Environment Authority because the register is not good enough. In this situation, it is of course cheaper for the cheese merchant from France not to come to Sweden and sell their cheeses, and that is not what we wanted to achieve. Madam President, I would like How can this be interpreted in any other way than the fact that Swedish legislation has failed? Sweden will almost be made a laughing stock if we introduce this law before the technical issues have been satisfactorily resolved so that there is a sufficiently wide range of certified cash registers that are classified for outdoor use, i.e. at least IP44. I therefore support our reservation, No 1, in the report. It essentially means that the introduction of the report's legislative proposal will be postponed until 1 January 2019, which we consider to be sufficient time for the cash register industry to be able to produce cash register equipment that is classified for outdoor use, so that the kind of problems that I have related will not have to arise. In the meantime, the Tax Agency should also have time to check any foreign cash registers with approval from other countries, so that they meet the same requirements. The government must also take responsibility for monitoring developments and take the necessary measures to ensure that the development of properly classified cash registers takes off. It must be the case that we, as legislators, ensure that a function is practicable before forcing someone to use it. It seems self-evident, but the government has obviously not paid any attention to this problem. When the Cash Register Act is now extended to traders who do not have a permanent place of business in Sweden, i.e. foreign traders, it becomes particularly aggravating. The Government should therefore ensure that the Tax Agency issues a general exemption from the Cash Register Act for the so-called cash industry and take measures to develop a sufficiently diversified range of IP44-classified cash register equipment, including control boxes, and then re-include the cash industry among those hit by the Act. This also applies, of course, to foreign traders without a permanent establishment in Sweden. Madam President, I would like We have nothing against the substance of the law, on the contrary. We should have a high tailings when it comes to creating good and functioning competition neutrality and combating tax evasion. But before the law comes into force, it must be reasonably possible to comply with it.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-597	Madam President, I would like I think the vast majority of us are visiting one of all the markets around the country. For my part, I have a market that is quite close to my home and is called Norvalla market. It is a welcome element that brings with it many positive things for the countryside. It is perhaps a sports association that gets some extra money for helping to take care of parking and other things. But there will also be cohesion in society. When we as citizens visit traders in market markets, we expect everyone who is there and who competes for our money right there, and at the same time do so on exactly the same terms. But, as we in this House know, that is not the case. Traders without a permanent establishment in Sweden have an exception in the Cash Register Act which means that they do not need to use certified cash registers. This part of the law, which causes quite a lot of problems for our Swedish market dealers, is therefore currently being ignored by international market dealers. Today's proposal means putting everyone on an equal footing. Everyone has to deal with the same conditions, which, of course, we Christian Democrats think is good. On the other hand, today's cash register law contains further problems. Not all markets are kept in crowded areas, but some are kept far out in rural areas. Maybe there's no electricity or the Internet. Weather and wind are not always with us either. It is not always sunshine, and the wind and rain do not always stay away. This and many other things can gild our lives when we're outside. In situations where both the infrastructure and the weather are against our market vendors, it may not be possible to maintain all parts of the cash register law. That is why we Christian Democrats believe that the cash register law should be revised to make it softer at the edges. We care about market dealers and the cultural act and tradition that they create. We should not force some market dealers to stop with complicated and rigid laws, which is actually a fact. It is also important for us who visit markets that there is a variety of offerings and that it is filled with new traders that can increase our interest in the markets. At present, I believe that this road has been strangled. What we may not think about is that 70 – 80% of transactions in the markets are made with cash. Then I would like to remind you of the increasingly difficult situation that arises in Sweden when it comes to being able to obtain cash but also to have cash deposited in their account again. The digitalisation of money management is here to stay; I realise that. Many of us find it convenient and rational to use only digital money. But there are a lot of people who want and should be able to use cash if they so wish. It's supposed to be a choice that the individual man makes. We must ensure that, in future, the banks receive cash, even if it is a little more expensive handling of it. In conclusion, the proposal is good, but with too little impact, as is customary from our government. Let's put all the marketers on an equal footing. But in the future, there must be a change in the register law that means that you can follow the rules even if there is no electricity, even if there is no internet and even if it is bad weather. We must find a system that is manageable for our market dealers. It is a pity that we cannot legislate on common sense. But sometimes I would like to have it included in this law. At the same time, we must ensure that anyone who goes to markets can still use cash if they so wish. It should be up to the individual to decide whether to take care of everything digitally or have money in hand. I'm in favour of reservation 2 from the Alliance.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-608	Madam President, I would like It is beautiful in Jönköping, the pearl of southern Sweden. Once Jönköping was outpost to the Dane. In Jönköping, you should go to the Western Square and meet the cloth merchants from Västergötland and the seasonal changes. The Christmas tree eventually meets the tulip, chanterelles, lingonberries and lard bands from Vaggeryd. There's a big popular movement in the square. Before leaving the square you should of course also buy lottery tickets to support Jönköpings Södra's ambitions to win Allsvenskan. It is just as beautiful to visit Kivik's market, not far from my summer dispute. In fact, I think that Kiviks' market is very good compared to Almedalen. It's a market with class and a lot of crackers. A few years ago there was a lot of discussion about the introduction of cash registers. My field studies in these two markets suggest that the irritation and anxiety among traders has changed to the beautiful words: It should be a receipt, right? Now more and more people feel that cheating with taxes, some of which were involved, leads to unsound competition and knocks out the stationary fish merchant, florist and others. That is why it was welcome when in 2010 we got a good law on cash registers, which means that those who sell goods in cash or with credit cards are obliged to have a register. There is also a objectively justified exception for those who do not engage in such extensive trade. My egg merchant in the fine village of Örnahusen can therefore continue to sell eggs without being plagued by any technical devices. I trust his integrity. An exception was made for companies that did not have a permanent establishment in Sweden. The bill, which was preceded by a memorandum, which the government has produced, has broad support among the consultative bodies. It is considered reasonable that those who come across the lake to the Western Square in Jönköping or to Kivik's market should also be covered by the Cash Register Act. That's reasonable. I also think that we from the government parties have shown a common humility towards the opposition when we move forward to 1 May. May Day is a particularly nice day with clear blue skies and many people in streets and squares. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-616	Madam President, I would like With regard to the humility mentioned by Peter Persson, it is not about humility towards the opposition but about the traders. It would have been very difficult to do this by 1 April. We also agreed on that. As Peter Persson knows, we in the Alliance have a follow-up motion, which is that we want to see a review of the legislation to see what difficulties traders have encountered with the creation of the Cash Register Act. When I read about why the majority believes that the accompanying motion should not be approved, I can see that it is very thin. It says that the government has the opportunity to return with the necessary follow-up, implementation and evaluation measures if necessary. My question is therefore why the Social Democrats and Peter Persson do not believe that an independent review should be carried out. We all know that there have been and still are difficulties for some traders in the country, depending on the seasons and so on, even though the technology has become much better. Why are Peter Persson and his party not interested in how the companies are doing in their everyday lives?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-619	Madam President, I would like Of course we are. However, I note that the existing legislation has only been in operation for a few years and that there is now supplementary legislation. You must also share my view when I say that the frequent criticism that existed initially now has basically subsided, Lotta Finstorp. Trade associations think that it is good to have extended legislation that reinforces the possibility of combating tax evasion. In fact, technological developments have progressed significantly. I think it is becoming a habit – or a habit – on the part of the opposition to demand evaluations before laws come into being. You may well do so; I will evaluate that question myself.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-621	Madam President, I would like The evaluation does not concern the legislation we are now getting in place, but the one that has been operating for a few years. In view of the difficulties we have heard from the speaker's chair, it would have been appropriate to do an independent review, because the Tax Agency has done for itself – there has been some visual inspection in marketplaces and so on. What's needed is something else. You know that we received a lot of emails from crackers when this was introduced a few years ago. They were worried about not being able to cope with seasonal changes and so on outdoors with the technology available. So it would certainly have been appropriate to carry out a review. According to the referral from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Visita, this is exactly what they are asking for. There are still difficulties; we cannot fail to do that. It is very unfortunate that there is no humility on the part of the government towards traders in Sweden. I have another question, too. The Council is often very critical of the weak impact assessments in the proposals. Even with regard to this proposal, the Regulatory Council says that the investigation into the impact of the proposal on companies is inadequate. There are no alternative solutions and the size of companies is not included in the impact assessment. Does Peter Persson think it is a problem that the impact assessment is inadequate?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-624	Madam President, I would like You have to choose your position. In her speech, Lotta Finstorp said that it is an exceptionally good piece of legislation, but then she takes a step in the Rules Council which says that this is too complicated. I assume that Lotta Finstorp stands by the initial position, namely that it is good that we get the supplementary law. I know Lotta Finstorp can't answer any questions, but in 2016 and 2017 I haven't received any e-mails or phone calls at all, which we received a few years ago. But that's because this has been settled. I recommend you to go to the square in Nyköping and conduct a field study on Saturday, Lotta Finstorp. Then you can call and report!
i-4d46c44ff974b017-626	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. This proposal for a change of law is important in order for us to achieve the level playing field required in the cash industry. It is about time that we did this, because otherwise the activities that are subject to other rules could be excluded in favour of the activities that occasionally come here from outside. At the same time, the legislation as a whole is very important. Although it deals with a rather low level compared to what we were talking about earlier, that is to say large companies engaged in aggressive tax planning, it is about tax fraud and thus unfair competition. It can also be said, as Peter Persson does, that more and more people accept this and think it is good because it benefits the serious companies and the serious traders. Although the law is both important and right and good, and although this supplement is also important as well as right and good, one must of course see that there are problems. Peter may not have received any e-mails in the last few years, but I have. I have also talked to various traders and organisations that point to some problems that exist. Several of these problems have now been highlighted in the speaker's chair – it concerns everything from more weatherproof cash registers and approved cash registers to power shortages and so on. These problems exist, and I think the IRS is actually paying attention to them. At least that is what I hear in the discussions that exist. However, from the fact that the problems exist to saying that we need a completely independent evaluation of the legislation, which has only been in place for a few years, the step is too far. I expect, of course, that we have a healthy, healthy and good government operating on the basis of common sense. I expect the government to have regular contact with the Tax Agency and eventually come back to the problems that exist in the legislation – and correct them, so that we eliminate them in reality. In order to get to that situation, the government needs to have the space that all governments need in their contacts with authorities without being subjected to evaluation after evaluation solely in order to question the government. What I hear from all the parties in the speaker's chair is that we agree that the proposal is a good one. That's good. Then we must take that step further and hope that the government will come back and remedy the shortcomings that exist. I support the committee's proposal.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-632	Madam President, I would like It is very interesting to listen to the Left Party in this. As an opposition, we can agree with a lot. We share the view that there is a problem in many market dealers; we have also received emails in recent years. It is a pity that the Social Democrats have been missed in that e-mail conversation, and we must try to tell the marketers that they are going to take the Social Democrats into the mails. However, the fact that, as the Left Party does, it lands in a discussion that it does not want to review at the moment is quite strange. After all, the law has existed since 2010. It has changed on some occasions, but the requirement to have a certified cash register has been in place since 2010. I do not think it is too few years to be able to review a cash register law that actually creates problems. I would therefore like to know how the Left Party really thinks when it says 'no' to the motions that are on Parliament's table and that we are going to take a decision on in March. In fact, we agree on the substance of this.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-635	Madam President, I would like This part of the opposition, that is, we on the left, nevertheless think that the government we have is a good government, which acts with common sense. It has ensured that several parts of this type of legislation have been improved and in this way strikes against unsound competition, for the benefit of all serious entrepreneurs. We believe, just as we have written in the committee response, that the contact between the government and the Swedish Tax Agency is fully sufficient to remedy the shortcomings that have been highlighted by traders. It is a small group, but it is important and has a problem. We therefore simply trust that the government will follow the matter and come back to remedy the shortcomings I believe many of us see. After all, the part of the opposition that Larry belongs to wants to try to attack the government in every situation, and sometimes it gets a little ridiculous. For it becomes a bit unwieldy, and it does not stand up for the Left Party.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-638	Madam President, I would like I would say that the market dealers and the organisations representing the market dealers who have discussed with me say that it is unwieldy for us to raise this discussion. I still do not quite understand how one can say that the government has this under its roof and makes the necessary changes. The government that is now sitting has made only one change in this regard since it took office. This change had to make sure that the international traders go under the same cash register law as the Swedish ones, which is of course good. However, nothing has been done to solve the problems of market outlets that are far beyond the usual urban areas, in places where weather, wind, electricity and the internet may record in a way that actually prevents them from complying with the Cash Register Act. Many of these people testify to the fact that they have received a fine from the Tax Agency in connection with this, which means that they receive additional costs for not complying with a law that they are practically unable to comply with in the situation in which they are located. So I cannot quite understand how the Left Party can have such confidence in the government in this regard. We all understand that you support the government in the budget, but you can actually go against the government in some parts. There are motions on the table of the Riksdag that the Left Party can support. It would make many market dealers happy if we could create a majority around them. Can we – the Left Party, the Christian Democrats, the Moderates, the Liberals and the Center Party – take care of trying to get the government pushed before us in this case?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-643	Madam President, I would like It is not unknown to Larry Söder or others that the Left Party in the parts where it is necessary goes against the government, for example, as we did together on the issue of non-profit second hand a number of years ago. What we are talking about – this bill is about – everyone agrees. You yourself say in speeches that we agree on what the proposal is about, and that is what the debate should reasonably be about. However, you are trying to steer things into something else, and you are trying to get an independent evaluation. I would argue that an independent evaluation is not needed to see the shortcomings that exist, but what is needed is changes to remedy the shortcomings that exist. I have confidence that this government will make sure to come back to remedy these shortcomings. Otherwise, I would not believe that this government is doing the right thing, but now I believe that the government can see these shortcomings and that it will come back to Parliament. Then there is no need for an independent evaluation, which would essentially be done in order for the right side of the opposition to find ways of criticising the government.
i-X396ZpztdEVNsDqwaqrrbt	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the Sku20 report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to be approved. Some amendments to the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. I am pleased that all parties, regardless of colour, agree on this important issue, or rather on part of a very important issue. The proposal and the report are about order and order in the field of taxation. Everyone in Sweden, citizens and entrepreneurs, should give warm thanks to the OECD economic cooperation organisation, which has pushed this development forward. The OECD seized on the tax fraud that had been going on for too long at international level under the auspices of neoliberal economists, politicians and debaters. We have had whole states and so-called jurisdictions – not full states but territories with varying degrees of self-determination – which have been built up entirely around tax evasion and which have been called tax havens. The Cayman Islands, the Channel Islands, and the Bahamas are examples of paradise islands where money has been hidden and converted for modern - day pirates and bandits. These range from fired dictators, terrorists and various global criminal syndicates, such as Italian and Russian mafia, to ordinary Swedish tax fraudsters and tax-planning Swedish companies. An army of tax lawyers and tax consultants have been fed and thrived by the fiffry. Deeply corrupt banks and bank managers have provided the crime tools and stood there with the shame associated with Luxleaks, Panamaleaks etc. Madam President, I would like Tax evasion is the slush and the mourning of an unregulated market economy, and if it is allowed to grow, it will also be a threat to healthy, normal competition and to honest businesses and entrepreneurship. Tax evasion creates a sick financial world where greed becomes the driving force, goals and means. Welfare systems, housing markets and pension systems are being beaten to bits. The potential of developing countries to offer a better life to their citizens is being crushed. We Social Democrats therefore welcome and embrace the OECD BEPS project, the project against tax base erosion and profit transformation. Greed and predatory will now be put into place. All other parties should also welcome BEPS, for the sake of Sweden and its citizens. Our economy and our companies are not well off living in a world of bribery, corruption and tax evasion, where criminals and dictators, in cooperation with the financial princes, can do whatever they want. Madam President, I would like The ECOFIN Council meeting in December 2014 adopted the Council Directive on mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, called DAC 2. The Directive on Administrative Cooperation introduces into EU law the OECD Global Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information. The multilateral agreement between competent authorities on the automatic exchange of financial account information, abbreviated MCAA, requires the OECD standard for such exchange of information to be implemented and applied in Sweden. The agreement was signed by 87 countries and jurisdictions on 2 November 2016. Some of these, including Sweden and almost all other EU Member States, undertook to have implemented the agreement by 1 January 2016 and to start the exchange in 2017. Madam President, I would like Discussions have also taken place between companies and authorities in Sweden and between authorities in Sweden and authorities in other countries, not least between the Nordic countries. All of this has resulted in the identification of certain areas where there is a need for adjustments in Swedish legislation regarding the global standard for automatic exchange of financial account information. This is, therefore, a matter of, among other things, these adjustments, the more precise meaning of which is to be read in the report by the audience. For time winning, I don't go through them. Madam President, I would like Another step has been taken in order to improve taxation internationally. It feels good that the red-green government has been given the privilege of leading this process in Sweden. Justice taxes without cheating are part of the Swedish model.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-657	Madam President, I would like Value recovery when investing in transport infrastructure is a heading that possibly scratches the surface of what this really means. This means that municipalities have the opportunity to use exploitation agreements with developers, which will build on previous municipal land, to impose a fee which can then be channelled through the municipality into various infrastructure projects. This is, of course, something that can help to increase the development of the necessary infrastructure in areas where major exploitation is taking place. Of course, it can also contribute to the growth and development of our country's housing building and infrastructure if it is done properly. But it is very important that this does not happen at the expense of the rate of expansion. Increased charges on developers who are going to build more homes in a country with a housing crisis are in danger of doing just that. We highlight this, together with the alliance parties, in our joint reservation No 3, which I would like to call for. It is important that this is done in a responsible manner and that the government takes the necessary measures to prevent the pace of construction from falling. Now that we have finally, after many years of efforts by both alliance governments and now in the run-up to the red-green government, got up the pace of construction in Sweden, it is something that needs to be protected. It is also important that this does not have distortive consequences for competition, because it is inevitable that when an additional economic burden comes on an exploiter, smaller developers and less exploiters risk having a more difficult situation and less opportunity to bid for this form of exploitation. It risks distorting competition from smaller companies to larger companies, and this is not what the Swedish construction market is currently demanding. The Swedish building market is a fragile market that needs to be properly stimulated and where the smaller players also have an important role to play. We are clarifying the Moderates in reservation No 6, and I would also like to support this.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-662	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 1. Sweden needs infrastructure, a lot of infrastructure. Building infrastructure is expensive, and it is difficult to calculate the costs of major infrastructure investments. In Sweden's negotiations on the construction of a high-speed railway between Sweden's major cities Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö, the numbers around the construction have swung well, and it is difficult, not to say impossible, to calculate what this massive building's final bill will be. The Minister for Infrastructure has said that the railway should be built according to the economy you have, which will result in a patchwork that may never be finished. The obvious thing should be to build more railways where both freight and passenger transport can be combined, so that there is more use of the tracks. Madam President, I would like Building infrastructure out of this magnitude requires capital, lots of capital, while existing railways need to be upgraded to cope with the traffic that already exists. And there's more goods you'd like to go track-bound. The Swedish negotiators HG Wessberg and Catharina Håkansson Boman have in their mission to see how to finance the construction of the high-speed railway. There has been talk of selling state shareholdings in companies and introducing a temporary infrastructure tax, which is in fact an additional property tax on existing property tax. It will then be placed on the properties that are considered to benefit from the high-speed rail, even if this is not the case. Most recently, a proposal has been made for municipalities to be able to collect part or all of the municipality's co-financing for the construction of railways, metros, trams or fairways built by the state and county councils through exploitation agreements. The government has stated that at least 700 000 homes need to be built, and with the Swedish negotiations it could build around 100 000 homes. There is a great housing shortage in most cities, and there is absolutely no doubt that there is a massive need to build housing. Building new tenant-ownerships and rental apartments is expensive. Buying a right-of-occupancy apartment today is expensive, and the fee is sky-high on new flats. Rental rights are no exception. Of course, the builders are keen to make money from the properties they build. Today we have a municipal property tax, which is a government tax on small houses, owner-occupied apartments and dwellings in apartment blocks. It is a fixed amount of 0.75% of the rateable value of buildings and land. If you later sell your house at a higher price than what you bought it for, you also have to pay a profit tax of 22% of the profits. The bill says that the value of the properties that are close to good infrastructure increases. Yeah, that's right. This means that part of the property's increase in value will be used to pay for infrastructure before the property is built and before the infrastructure is built. Tax is already being paid on the increase in the value of the property by increasing the value of the property, which means that the property tax is being increased. The increase in value is likely to also result in a profit on sales that leads to higher profit tax. In addition, in connection with the implementation of detailed plans, municipalities shall be given the opportunity to negotiate through the exploitation agreement a co-financing payment by the developer or property owner for the part of the municipal cost that the state or county councils are responsible for. Tax on taxes does not favour housing construction. In addition, the bill states that municipalities may not charge more compensation in exploitation agreements than the ones co-financed by the municipalities themselves. The municipalities can decide for themselves whether the exploitation agreement with co-financing should cover all or part of the municipality, and it can look very different around the country. What happens then, for example, if the municipality has strong growth and in the exploitation agreement it has concluded has received the cost that the municipality has paid for the co-financing of infrastructure? Is it not possible, therefore, with the forthcoming development agreements, to take out a single crown and benefit those who have chosen to build the properties later? There are many questions in the referrals from municipalities. We Swedish democrats share these question marks, which should be exclamation marks, and believe that more investigation and guidance is needed for the municipalities before the proposed legislation enters into force.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-677	Madam President, I would like The Left Party is not in principle opposed to co-financing but sees great risks that the financing method can change the order of priority for national infrastructure projects. Infrastructure funding should be made as economical as possible, as infrastructure is the basis of the entire economic system. We do not have as much resources as we would need to expand sustainable infrastructure and must therefore think about the resources being sufficient. There is a risk that the value-return proposal will give priority to investments with limited social benefits over items that are more cost-effective. The proposal may have adverse effects on the housing market, as has been pointed out by several consultation bodies. There is a risk that housing construction will decline, especially in the case of rental apartments. We need wise and economic approaches when investing in infrastructure. As with OPS solutions, we see problems here. The whole package has also looked at OPS solutions to manage to invest in high-speed lines and other infrastructure right now. Therefore, I would like briefly to highlight the problem of precisely OPS solutions. The National Audit Office, the UK's counterpart to the National Audit Office, has pointed out that OPS solutions have not proved to be socially beneficial in the UK but have been very expensive. The costs have gone away. Therefore, they do not want to recommend OPS solutions in the UK. I think that Sweden should listen to this. Even Anders Borg pointed out when he was Minister of Finance that the cost of OPS solutions could increase significantly. Let me get back to value recovery. We have problems with this because, among other things, rents are expected to rise because property owners pay more part-financing. Real estate companies are so strong today that there is a great risk that they will make even greater profits. Citizens will then be those who pay in the form of higher rents. This will take place in central locations close to infrastructure. When we build infrastructure, we build society to a large extent. It is important to plan the infrastructure so that society is not torn apart. Instead, the Left Party would like to see the state constantly putting its efforts on the basis that the most favourable investments can be made with the help of the National Debt Office. We have a great responsibility not to build for segregation. In France there is now a return of value. There is an infrastructure tax, called taxe locale d 中 équipement, which applies when building permits and building permits are granted. It shall not exceed 5 % of an increase in value. France is an extremely segregated country. There have been reports that extremism and terrorist crimes have increased in precisely hard-segregated countries. France is one such example here. Probably this is just part of the whole thing. However, when planning society, we must be aware and think beyond our noses to see what the consequences are of the measures we take. Like several consultation bodies, the Left Party is also concerned that value recovery may lead to an increase in the trend we have seen in recent years. Exclusive urban areas have been built where not all citizens have felt welcome. We must look to the whole and build an inclusive society. That's our job. We must ensure that the objective of including everyone is achieved. With sadness in my heart, I have seen environments built up in recent years where people who do not have a high income are excluded. Nyköping municipality writes in its consultation on this proposal that the municipality sees the risk that the proposal will have negative social consequences and increased segregation by increasing housing prices creating difficulties in creating the mixed and attractive city. Unfortunately, the proposal will potentially affect those who are asking for a cost-friendly accommodation in a rental agreement. It can contribute to an even more segregated housing market. That is why I would like to support the Left Party's reservation 2 in the report.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-690	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin, for time, by calling for the Liberals' reservation No 10 to be approved, but I naturally support all our reservations in the report. How will new infrastructure be financed? Infrastructure investments are important and necessary throughout the country. The Government's proposal for a return to value, which we are now discussing, aims to enable municipalities to co-finance central or county government transport infrastructure. This is based on voluntary negotiations with a developer or property owner on co-financing payments. We in the Liberals think that volunteering is a good thing. However, it is assumed that infrastructure will increase value, and this increase in value will enable the municipality to take out from property owners and developers to co-finance the infrastructure. We in the Liberals are asking ourselves a number of questions about this. The proposal in the proposal on value-return is just a piece of the puzzle. Why not look at the whole issue of funding opportunities? In what other ways can infrastructure also be financed? We believe that there is a difference and that different models are needed depending on what is being built and where it is being built. Who will pay for the infrastructure? Well, ultimately they're the ones who live. What does this mean for those who are going to live in new production? We also wonder why student housing, for example, is not excluded. There is no answer to that in the report. This could also apply to retirement homes. Does today's rental models fit into the value-return system? The answer in the report is very fuzzy. Sweden needs large infrastructure investments. At the same time, we must be able to maintain what already exists. Tracks need to be equipped, roads need to be fixed, bridges need to be reinforced and cycle paths need to be fixed. Therefore, funding is crucial for how much new infrastructure can be developed in parallel with managing maintenance and reinvestment in existing infrastructure. In this context, I would like to refer to the Liberals' follow-up motion of last autumn on the basis of the Infrastructure for the Future Bill – innovative solutions for strengthening competitiveness and sustainable development. We pointed out at the time that it was important to look at all the possibilities in terms of funding options, because funding is a major issue. Perhaps in many cases it is absolutely crucial. It is therefore a pity that the government does not take a holistic approach. An overall assessment is required of how funding through value recovery, private capital, user charges, public-private collaboration, funding and more can contribute to the development of the necessary infrastructure. But the conditions in the country are very different. It is necessary to assess the impact of value-return on the possibility of starting the construction of new infrastructure compared with other forms of financing. This proposal is based on new production paying for the infrastructure. But this only applies to the homes now planned through new detailed plans. If you are lucky enough to already have a construction right, it will not be covered. We in the Liberals wonder why, as these might benefit equally from the increase in value. Let me take an example of two properties lying next to each other. One of them has an existing design plan with construction rights. The other one gets a new detailed plan. Both will benefit, but only one of the properties will contribute. Many new homes are needed, and there is a major and intense debate on the importance of solving this major challenge. All obstacles need to be reviewed. New barriers should be avoided. The time from idea to completion of the house must be cut. There is therefore a risk that planning processes may be extended by this system. We really want to be vigilant about this. This would be an unfortunate development, because the efficiency of planning processes must continue. The possibility of taking home a real estate investment is limited in many small and medium-sized towns, which should also be taken into account when making proposals. Does everyone get an increase in value? No, it's not safe. It depends on whether the trains stop there and on the distance to a station where they stop. Tracks with trains that you cannot get on may not contribute to an increase in value. We think it is important to enable the construction of rental apartments. We in the Liberals are concerned about the models available for renting. Will they work in this context? We feel a great deal of uncertainty about that. We would also like to emphasise the importance of co-planning between infrastructure and housing. We have previously proposed that the Swedish Transport Administration should contribute here, and we want to repeat that it is important to contribute to co-planning. When it comes to building new infrastructure, we in the Liberals also think that there are important infrastructure that is not mentioned, namely the cycle paths that are needed in the municipalities. Madam President, I would like We in the Liberals have a number of questions. I hope to have some answers here in the debate. The proposal in the proposal on value-return is just a piece of the puzzle. Why is there not a whole? Different financing models will be needed depending on what is being built and where it is being built. Why do we not see a whole? Who will pay for the infrastructure? Well, ultimately the residents. The rules are very different. Why should it be like that? Why do you not want to look at this? Why are student housing not excluded? We know that there is a dilemma in terms of the possibility of paying. Will today's rental models work in this context? The report lacks a response here, Madam President. We hope that we will receive some answers in today's debate.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-713	Madam President, I would like The Government's proposal aims to distribute the cost more evenly between the state, municipality, county council and property owners and to voluntarily return to society parts of the value increase for properties resulting from large investments in the transport infrastructure. That's a good principle. Anyone who benefits from an investment should of course be involved in paying for it. This is particularly true in large projects, such as Sweden's negotiations. In such cases, there may be very clear increases in the value of land that has not previously been considered worthy of exploitation. Thanks to investments made with tax revenue, the value of the property increases. It is therefore reasonable for an developer or property owner to be involved in part-financing projects that are of obvious benefit to them. Madam President, I would like However, the Christian Democrats are concerned that already existing individual property owners can get caught up in the new legislation. Already today we can see examples of how this happens. When a developer is going to build a new residential area and the municipality is obliged to, for example, draw in sewers and build roads, homeowners end up in a pinch. Of course, the developer should be involved in part-financing this. But in many cases it may be that existing property owners, neighbors of the new building, are also charged for a new road, even though they do not get a share of the increase in value until they sell their dwelling. The developer sells or rents out his property and can charge a price to cover the cost. It is therefore reasonable for them to co-finance certain infrastructure investments. But a private person who owns his home only makes money on the day he or she sells it with profit. Madam President, I would like Private housing should not receive a bill for someone else exploiting the neighboring plot. A house is not primarily an investee. It's a home. We Christian Democrats had this in mind when we pushed through the abolition of property tax. You don't make money living there. You only make money when you sell with profit. A return to value risks being based on fictitious increases in value, not realised. No one should be forced from a home you have lived in because of an increase in value you do not take part in. An individual property owner can receive a bill that comes from the municipality on something you have not ordered. It is important for the government to ensure that this does not happen. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats want to include protection for individual property owners in new legislation. It must not be the case that rules help to throw people out of homes in order to bring about infrastructure investments. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats want a better impact assessment of the proposed amendments to the Planning and Construction Act. The effect on individual property owners must be clarified, so that we do not have a situation where people are forced from house and home. Today, similar paragraphs are already used in some ten municipalities, with devastating costs for the individual. In some cases, private property owners with financial resources manage to process and win against municipalities in terms of, for example, street charges. In other cases, you simply have to pay. It is not a reasonable system for citizens to be placed in such situations. That is why we want a better impact assessment and clearer protection for individual property owners. Madam President, I would like With this, I support reservations 3, 5 and 9.
i-4NT27pXsVaGJd99Rbj9Dxp	Madam President, I would like I call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Madam President and all of you who are listening to our debate! In the Committee on Transport and Tourism, we rarely or never deal with housing issues, although it may sound different now. It makes an old construction worker especially happy that this is still there. Otherwise, we are talking mainly about the lack of roads and rails and the lack of time for trains. But neither can we turn a blind eye to the lack of housing. It has doubled among the country's municipalities in three years, which means that 94 per cent of the population lives in a municipality where there is a housing shortage. The Boverket housing market survey speaks clearly. We know how it affects young as well as old people who want their first accommodation or a new accommodation. Investments in infrastructure have always focused on strengthening Sweden as an export nation. When about 150 years ago the construction of the main railway was started, it was the same driving force as now. Where the trains stop, it is worth building housing and infrastructure. Today, however, it is not enough just to build new station buildings or more homes. There is also a need to invest in other infrastructure. The residents and commuters must have good local traffic, so that they do not choose the car over public transport. Public transport must be developed in all parts of our elongated country, and new efforts will be needed in the future. In other words, we need to create infrastructure that enables smooth and climate-smart transport, no matter where we live our lives. Madam President, I would like That is why this proposal has ended up with us in the Committee on Transport and Tourism. Travelling and construction are linked and are among the key factors for achieving the goal of full employment. But it costs, Madam President. Although we Social Democrats are investing a lot in our common infrastructure, 100 billion more than before, it is not always enough to build at the pace that the municipalities want and want. We Social Democrats have always used an active housing policy as a weapon to smooth out the gaps. Housing building creates growth by bringing different occupational groups into work. It is about the forest worker in Värmlandsskogen via the carpenter in Motala to the curtain swimmer at Ludvig Svensson curtain factory in Kinna. All of these got jobs and confidence in the future when society started housing construction on b red front all over the country. It's happening again. A couple of weeks ago we could read that 63 000 apartments were started last year. But we're not content with that. The proposal aims to give more impetus to even more infrastructure and to build even more housing. These are two areas of concern. It is absolutely crucial that we invest in these areas in order for our country to be at the forefront as an export nation. We need to build more housing and more infrastructure that allows smooth and climate-smart transport. As I have said before, municipal advance payments are a way of bringing forward and getting started with infrastructure, which is often a prerequisite for new business start-ups and for people to live where they want to. They should be able to get to and from work, service and cultural events. Madam President, I would like With expanded infrastructure, the value of what is being built increases. It is therefore reasonable that we should now make it possible to return to the municipalities parts of the increase in the value of real estate resulting from investments in transport infrastructure. Remember that what we are now making possible through value restoration should be done through voluntary negotiation between the municipality and the developer or property owner. The impact assessment of the proposal shows that the proposal assumes that both parties will benefit from the conclusion of a value-return agreement. A production cost is weighed up by the fact that the increased availability of the infrastructure investment entails realizable benefits for developers. This could be about enabling exploitation that could not otherwise be done, such as a higher degree of exploitation. It is important to say that municipal co-financing does not entail re-priorities between projects. The legislation allows a municipality that co-finances public or county transport infrastructure to negotiate with a developer or property owner to replace the municipality for part of the co-financing provided by the municipality to the investment under an exploitation agreement. Madam President, I would like This will apply to building infrastructure for traffic on both rubber wheels and iron wheels. Thus, the co-financing agreements may be concluded provided that the road or rail to which the municipality contributes is likely to increase the value of the property or properties covered by the detailed plan. The Moderates wonder whether it is appropriate to impose a fee on construction companies before the benefits are realised. It can only be answered by the fact that there is a voluntary negotiation on both sides. If they do not believe that profitability can be achieved, they will hardly enter into agreements. We have all read the article from the Tenants' Association in Stockholm. There is talk of Stockholm rents. This shows that there is a value in building housing and infrastructure that is adapted to each other and to people's needs. I share the opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs that the proposal can be expected to lead to increased exploitation and to a positive impact on housing construction. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that there will be new opportunities, but as with any new regulation, it is urgent to monitor and evaluate the legislation. Of course, the government returns to the Riksdag if necessary to develop the system of revaluation.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-736	Madam President, I would like I can agree that the Committee on Transport and Tourism talks far too rarely about co-planning for housing. That is an important issue. Let me turn to the questions I asked in the speaker's chair. We Liberals think it is important to see cofinancing as a piece of the puzzle among others. We do not believe that it will solve the challenges that exist because the conditions are so different. In the places where there is an increase in value, there are two dilemmas. The properties that will be built will have different conditions. A property may already have an existing plan with construction rights. It will not be touched. But if a new detailed plan is drawn up, it will be affected. I have a few questions for Lars Mejern Larsson. Firstly, how will the equality of property owners be seen? Isn't there a reason to look at that question? It can have very unimagined consequences, for example two different cases of new production but with completely different conditions. My second question concerns the fact that the conditions are different in the country. If you do not achieve an increase in value, how should you finance the infrastructure? We in the Liberals think there should be a palette of measures. We cannot expect the increase in value to be the foundation of everything. There must also be other measures. What other alternatives to funding do the government and the Social Democrats see? Are there any other pieces of the puzzle that need to be done? If so, when will they be presented?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-741	Madam President! This is exciting. If I remember correctly, it was in 2014 that the directives were put forward. If I read correctly, it was in 2015 that the negotiator came back with proposals on the matter. Now we deliver answers, even if it's not a question of everything. The question is how the Alliance has thought and what the idea was when these parts were presented. Then it was a question of which properties are affected. The proposal is linked to exploitation agreements, which the municipality may require and include in the detailed plan. For land that has increased value in infrastructure investments, municipalities will not develop a detailed plan. Then there is no possibility of exploitation and they will therefore not be affected.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-743	Madam President, I would like This is where we Liberals think the issue needs to be followed up. There will be strange consequences. With two properties right next to each other, and on one there is a building right since before, the other receives a detailed plan change, one property will not contribute anything at all while the other does. It is important to follow up on the consequences. We Liberals think this is an important piece of the puzzle. We should be able to use revaluation in some cases, but it will not solve all the challenges. I also note that Lars Mejern Larsson does not answer the question of what other ways of financing exist. If we do not achieve an increase in value, the infrastructure still needs to be developed. Then you have to look at a palette of solutions. We Liberals have presented a number of options. There we note that we have not received a response from the Social Democrats and the government. I would also like to take up the second question to which I would like an answer. Is it possible to exclude a certain form of housing? We know that students like to live near public transport. It's good for the opportunities to study. They find it difficult to meet any rent costs. That is why we propose to look at excluding a certain type of accommodation from value recovery. I note that there is no answer in the report by the majority of the committees on the subject. As regards student housing and retirement homes, there is no answer. It would be excellent to have an answer today as to why it is not possible to make certain exceptions for accommodation not less in public transport near locations.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-749	Madam President, I would like It is as Nina says: This is an important piece of the puzzle. I will first comment on what concerns the support for public infrastructure and how it can be financed through taxes, charges or other things. There will be an investigation that will provide an answer to this, and I believe – without having put myself into this part – that there will be a partial report today. As far as the others are concerned and which can be excluded, of course we have a task on the part of Parliament to monitor this. Of course, the law must be followed up and evaluated in the future. I'm looking forward to that.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-751	Madam President, I would like I listened to Lars Mejern Larsson's speech and have some supplementary questions a little based on the objections we have had from the Moderates. This is partly true of the risk that this may hamper the construction process. Although there is an element of voluntaryity in this, municipalities still have planning monopolies and may in practice require this from the exploiters with whom they will then sign exploitation agreements. It can have consequences, especially as regards those who are able to take on such an increased risk and who can build at all. I was going to ask Lars Mejern Larsson to describe a little bit how the government parties have intended to avoid the risk of this hampering the construction process. Is it entirely linked to the voluntary element and is it supposed to be what solves the problem and reduces the risk of the retarded build-up? And can he develop something about the risk that this will have a distortion of competition, which means that it is only the larger construction companies that are able to take on such an increased risk and cost that this model of value recovery actually entails?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-753	Madam President, I would like When we deliver, it always shakes and demands the ability to reset and understand. Let us go back to your eight years of government with a minister who said that it had overinvested in the railways and compared with the finance minister we have today, who, unlike the previous one, is actually delivering. We are talking about 100 billion more; that is a considerable sum. We have now put forward an infrastructure proposal with the importance of linking housing and infrastructure for the first time. When it comes to the concern that the building act is slowed down, I read last night or the day before yesterday in the Construction industry, where it is said that the total opening volume has increased by 42 per cent from February 2016 to January this year. Above all, it is housing projects that are starting, so I do not share the concern. Rather, I see this as one of the pieces of the puzzle that will make it continue in this direction.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-756	Madam President, I would like If Lars Mejern Larsson wants to talk about investing in maintenance of the railway, we can only say that it was under the alliance government that we doubled this maintenance. We are also all happy about the 100 million that have come since then, but it is far from doubling railway maintenance. Lars Mejern Larsson says that he is not concerned about the rate of expansion. It is good that he is pleased with all the hard work that the Alliance government has done over eight years to change the conditions in the housing market so that the increased pace of construction we now see is possible. As a curiosity, I can only mention that the last alliance budget ended in principle at the turn of the year 2015/ 16. One can once again ask the question I asked Lars Mejern Larsson: Are there any forms of thinking on how to ensure that this does not have any distortion of competition? Many times the attack comes from the Social Democratic side where they say: It was you who started this, and we are only delivering. It's great that you deliver. However, I think you need to think again if you are living in the delusion that an alliance government, if it had remained, had just let go of its hands and done nothing, but only seen a little where you end up and not taken any further action after directives had been drafted. That is why I again ask the question: will the government now take any steps to ensure that this does not have a distortion of competition where smaller developers and less exploiters are distributed in favour of the larger exploiters and developers?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-761	Madam President, I would like You work with problems and see what solutions you have. I just want to say that it is not 100 million more, it is 100 billion more. So we are talking about such large sums that we are talking about 1 billion per week, which we are now investing in infrastructure. That is a huge amount of money, and it is much more than before. This is where we see the solution. Housing and such things are taking off because we have made simplifications. We are investing, and we are prioritising this. That is what we have been aiming for. I am not at all concerned about the developments that are to take place now.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-763	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report 11 on hunting and game conservation. The report comes from the general period of motion and contains some thirty motions. Most of them have been dealt with in the House before and are therefore being dealt with in a simplistic way, as nothing new has happened in this area since the last debate on these issues. Madam President, I would like Swedish hunting and game management are unique in the world. It is a historically long and well-functioning democracy based on freedom under responsibility. It is a tradition that we must not only defend but also develop. But above all, we shall protect it from populist and ill-considered compromises between red-green parties that do not always agree. Thanks in particular to the voluntary efforts of hunters and landowners for generations, we have viable game tribes all over the country and a good knowledge of our game that can benefit both research and society. Hunters and conservationists help to teach future generations to understand and respect nature. It is efforts that take time and energy and that are made without financial compensation. We Moderates would like to emphasise the importance of a long-term and secure administration in which decisions are of the highest priority not only in this House but also in the European Union. Unfortunately, we are deeply concerned about what is happening within the government in the area of hunting and game conservation right now. On so many different levels and at completely new levels, the government is pursuing a directly anti-rural policy that impairs the daily lives of everyone outside the regions of big cities. The food strategy has been the large part of the rural minister's parade. After a long, long wait, it finally came a few weeks ago. The objectives of the strategy are agreed, and they are really good with an intention to increase production in Sweden. But then the government chooses to change direction, and instead of setting production targets in general, they set production targets and consumption targets for organic, entirely across the board with what Sweden needs. Today, we have seen the proposal for a kilometre tax withdrawn. That was great. But then the message will be that the issue will be further investigated in order to be presented later and in a completely new way. Forest management is another issue that has been treated strangely as it suddenly appears in the cultural budget. In secret, we want to confiscate more forest and make it impossible to use or hunt in, that is to say, that the government takes the back way to abolish the property rights. The Social Democrats will soon have their say. In addition, their own elected representatives from the rural areas of Vansbro have put forward proposals on land taxes. How could such a tax affect wildlife conservation in the long term and make it more accessible to the public? Madam President, I would like A rural-friendly government does not put forward proposals that make everyday life difficult for entrepreneurs, residents and hunters in rural areas. Madam President, I would like Today there are general exceptions for wheelchair users to hunt from stationary motor vehicles. The exceptions are given by the relevant authority, and so far everything is fine, but there are still some important issues of freedom. The exception applies only in specified locations, and a hunter does not always hunt on the same hunting grounds. Permit applications and emergency permits are therefore becoming very complicated for a small group of people who would not have to do so. We therefore want the derogation to be extended and the exemption to apply throughout Sweden. It is a small change of rules that would equate a group with everyone else in society – a hunting equality issue one could say that it is. The minister responsible in this House has also said that women and men with disabilities should have the opportunity to work in everyday life on equal terms in terms of participation and accessibility. The Minister then refers to the question being investigated at the Government Office. The problem with this is that the minister's investigations are many and long, and there will be no decisions. While the Minister is investigating and trying to come up with something and trying to get along with his colleagues in the government, people and animals are out there waiting and waiting. Madam President, I would like Another thing that we have long been waiting for is for the government to strengthen the wildlife management delegations and increase local influence over the decisions taken. Last week there was finally a government statement and a decision on the matter, but that was not the message that we had been waiting for and not the message that would go in line with what the Riksdag has said that the government should do. The decision now taken by the government means in practice that delegations will be extended by two more people, but they will not come from the hunting or game conservation side, but will instead strengthen the conservation side. The possibility for delegations to influence decisions locally shines entirely with their absence, and power goes instead to authorities and governments. We believe that effective management must be based on understanding and knowledge of land and animals. This knowledge does not have organisations that have their membership base in the big cities. The government would rather connect power to itself than to the people. This decision is not just stupid, it is proof of mock democracy. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to endorse reservation 3 on off-road driving and reservation 5 on certain hunting issues.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-777	Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats are behind all their motions, but for time winning, we only ask for reservation 1 on wild boar management, paragraph 1. Long-term, a reasonable legal order and the law of speech are fundamental entrances to the hunting and game policy of the Swedish Democrats. Every year, the state gives the general commission to the Hunters' Association to lead and organize parts of the hunt and game conservation. There is great uncertainty, and after each year there is a concern about what the government thinks about the mission. Is it possible to use sufficient funds again this time, and is it even possible to keep the mission? In this respect, clarity and longer anticipation are needed in order for the League to be able to work without pressure in the way it is doing today. Contracting, which is another option coming from a particular government party, would mean short-termness and broken continuity. Wildlife care is a process that requires long-term planning. Sweden's game management must be based on knowledge-based commitment both to animals and nature and to sustainable hunting. That there is now a new order in which appeals of decisions on hunting for large predators are examined by one and the same court, the Administrative Court of Luleå, is good. It creates continuity. It is also good that decisions on the hunting of wolves may be taken no later than 1 October so that the appeal process can be completed before the hunting period begins on 2 January. The urgent requirement that the government has introduced that appeals against protection and licence hunting should be handled promptly with priority in the court is also good. The question is just how it will work in practice. It has not been that long since it was introduced. In order to avoid, for example, the wolf hunt being cancelled year after year, a supplement should be included in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's regulations that the hunting time should be extended even if the regular hunting time is over – this is what we in the Swedish Democrats have exercised in two consecutive years – as a complement to the urgency requirement if the verdicts are delayed anyway. Madam President, I would like Facebook groups have now recognized the right to appeal, for example, lynx hunting for a decision by the Administrative Court in Luleå. A Facebook group is not a legal person and should therefore not be given a right to speak. Similar networks have tried to act on hunting issues before when the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was the body to which they appealed. Then the networks have been rejected because they were not a legal person. The fact that the government, now changing the composition of the wildlife management delegations, gives environmental and nature conservation interests twice as much influence as hunters' interests in county boards' wildlife management delegations is a very surprising approach to achieving balance, as they say. Some interests have been considered under-represented. Some of the political members have a hunting interest, and it has been considered that it will be excessive for the interest in hunting. The political members are appointed to represent the people and, of course, have their own interests and experiences, whatever they may be. They change, of course, and if a county is represented by an overweight in some direction, it is a consequence of how the county inhabitants have voted in the elections. That is democracy. With this reasoning, the government seems to regard the will of the people and democracy as a minor problem. Otherwise, I cannot interpret the alleged imbalance. Madam President, I would like The wild boar tribe is growing strongly in some parts of Sweden. At the same time, it is a game that is laborious to manage as it is a nocturnal and shy animal. In some places wild boars cause costly damage to agricultural industries, which is why there are good reasons to simplify management by being more permissive in the case of assistive devices. Good wild boar management must be done in agreement with the hunting corps. It's obvious. More means should be allowed without bureaucratic derogations, for example for eel cameras and night vision. More approved wild boar traps also need to be developed. The main purpose of removing the permit requirement for surveillance cameras at wild boar baits and replacing it with a notification obligation is to facilitate wild boar hunting because wild boars are nocturnal animals which are therefore extremely difficult to hunt. Unfortunately, this is opposed by the government parties because it is considered integrity violations with cameras in the forest. The Camera Surveillance Act is initially designed for urban environments where people stay all the time, which cannot be said to be the case around a muddy, raised wild boar plantation far out in the woods or fields. The area shall also be surrounded by information signs indicating that the area is monitored and otherwise clearly marked. Like a majority of the consultation bodies, the Swedish Democrats agree that today's requirement for a permit for camera surveillance of wild boars should be replaced by a requirement for notification and that camera surveillance can then be used from evening to morning. Hunters with disabilities have a great need for motor vehicles in order to hunt. The vehicle needs to be driven in terrain during the hunt, and exemption is required for this. We believe that an exemption granted for hunting with motorised vehicles should apply throughout Sweden for a period of five years. This would make it easier for people with disabilities.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-792	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. Then I note that the report being debated at the moment is a motion for a resolution in the true sense of the word. Virtually all proposals are rejected, on the grounds that someone, preferably the government, intends to set up an investigation into the matter. I mean, the test of courage comes when you're in the minority. The government that we currently have does not have the courage to address the important issues dealt with in the report, for many people and activities. I am also saying this in the light of the fact that there was actually a hunting team investigation that was tasked with looking at many of the issues being dealt with at the moment. The current government decided to phase out, to close, to erase that investigation. It does not indicate much courage in addressing the issues that, as I said, are of great importance to many people and businesses. That suggests a real handshake. What, then, could be the reason for this? My conviction is that the disagreement on the current red-green, messy government is evident on these issues. The current minority cannot and will not agree on how to deal with the issues – hence the carelessness and lack of courage required to address the issues that, as I said, are important to many people and businesses.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-796	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask you to accept reservation 3 in paragraph 3. At the same time, I would like to remind you of the special opinion of the Christian Democrats in paragraph 6 that better support is needed for traders who have suffered from wild boar-related injuries and that this should be announced to the government. This exercise is dealt with in a simplified way in the report. We Christian Democrats have proposed in our budget motion that an additional 20 million per year be allocated to compensation for wild game damage, including for this purpose. Wild boar strain in Sweden is estimated to be, low in count, about 250 000. In 2016, 97,000 wild boars were shot, which is more than the number of felled moose in the country. This large number of wild boars causes damage for millions each year, which is devastating for farmers and other rural traders. The farmers pay the high price when wild boars prune up fields and grasslands with great damage as a result. The farmers receive no support for lost harvest, no money for fences or compensation for time that has to be laid off. Wild boars also account for a large number of wildlife accidents in traffic, some 3,000 a year. In addition, swine fever is now present in our immediate vicinity, and there is a risk that wild boars will transfer it to domestic herds. It would be devastating for the Swedish pig industry. Moreover, too large a herd of pigs does not adequately distance itself from civilization. Many homeowners have witnessed this on their bevelled lawns. The Swedish Parliament now needs to work for a strongly reduced wild boar strain. The Christian Democrats therefore propose that the requirement for game handling facilities be reviewed. Meat from other cloven-hoofed game may in certain circumstances be delivered directly to restaurants, shops or consumers– without intermediate stages. However, this does not apply to wild boar meat which must first pass through a game-handling establishment. We want to change that. We want to follow the German example. There the hunter shoots the boar, takes a sample that is passed on and gets answers after a few days. The meat can then be sold to shops or restaurants. Many hunters today have freezers full of wild boar meat. It takes a carrot to keep them shooting wild boars. Therefore, existing barriers to the resale of meat need to be removed. Madam President, I would like The preferred method for hunting wild boars is hunting at night. Camera monitoring of the bait facilitates the hunt but is currently subject to permit. The removal of the permit requirement would make hunting easier. Even predator attacks on domestic animals and domestic animals can cause considerable economic damage to farmers and lead to insecurity among many living in predatory areas. We Christian Democrats want it to be possible to pursue effective protection hunts combined with compensation for those who get their domestic animals grated and killed by predators. Today's levels of compensation for those who get their domestic animals grated and killed by predators need to be reviewed. The reindeer industry must be protected. It is an important part of Sami culture as well as important for employment and housing in Sweden's northern hinterland and mountain world. The financial compensation paid by the State for domestic animals killed by predators needs to be reviewed in order to provide reasonable compensation. At the same time, other measures are needed to minimise predator damage.
i-15jJuvXWFr6WqBHhg7QLej	Madam President, I would like We are debating, as Åsa Coenraads mentioned, MJU11 Hunting and game conservation. I support the committee's proposal in its entirety. I note that the committee has not submitted proposals for announcements from Parliament to the government this year. The committee notes that the government is working or has delivered results on most of the motions on which the report is concerned. Perhaps that is why Åsa Coenraads chose to address things in her speech that are not part of the report, such as kilometre tax, food production and so on. The report deals with, among other things, wild boar management, hunting times, cross-country hunting, mountain hunting, some other hunting issues, the weapons directive et and c hronic w asting d icese, known as the CWD. Madam President, I would like The number of wild boars has increased sharply in many areas, which has led to major problems with crop damage and an unacceptable increase in traffic accidents involving wild boars – we all know that. In bill 2015/ 16:199 Wild boar and game injuries, the government examined the report of the Hunting Act investigation, SOU 2014:54 Wild boar and game injuries – on feeding, camera surveillance and the hunting rights of tenants. The proposal was dealt with in a report in this House this autumn. We all know that the bourgeois parties, together with the Swedish Democrats, sided with some of the great landowners with regard to the right to continue feeding in uncontrolled quantities. It did not take into account the ownership of the landowners, farmers and tenants who have their farmland destroyed by wild boars or the forest damage that occurs where the feeding has taken place improperly. They chose to turn a blind eye to that. Nevertheless, our proposal for regional delimitation fell. Nevertheless, the government continues its efforts to control and manage our large game tribes. In the current situation, it is crucial that cooperation between hunting organisations and agricultural organisations is developed so that memoranda of understanding, guidelines and agreements can be developed. The Swedish Jägarförbundet has now, in what is called the general assignment, been given in its instructions for 2017 to work to limit the spread of wild boars. It has also been tasked with limiting and developing feeding guidelines, preferably together with voluntary agreements between the hunting teams, landowners and tenants. In order to be able to trap a large number of wild boars – which we believe is very important, while it should be done in an ethically correct way – the bait hunt is very important. The Government and the Ministry of Justice are therefore working on the issue of a review of the Camera Surveillance Act. The investigation that has been set up will analyse how an adaptation of the Camera Surveillance Act can relate to, among other things, wild boar baits, as was provided in the report of the Hunting Act investigation. The assignment shall be reported to the Government on 15 June 2017. We Social Democrats think it is important that it is clarified when and where a bait should be built, how large a bait can be and what a bait should contain. We also think it reasonable that there should be simplifications in the camera surveillance law that can facilitate bait hunting. Another exercise is about cross-country driving. Cross-country driving and hunting don't really belong together. But when the moose is shot, the quad is a fantastic vehicle to use to transport the fallen game. At the same time, it is an issue of accessibility and rights for disabled hunters and disability organisations. We have been informed that the Government is working on the matter and is preparing it and that a decision can come to Parliament's table. Mr President, I would like to We look forward to that message. The disability movement is waiting, and we in Parliament are waiting. Now it's just a matter of putting it forward. Mr President, I would like to An absolute promise from us Social Democrats has been to create order in small game hunting on state land above the cultivation limit. It was a mess created by the former government and by the Minister for Rural Development Eskil Erlandsson, who has now unfortunately chosen to leave the Chamber. The dispute has now been resolved by the government when it decided in the autumn that the right to small hunting in the first paragraph of Section 3 of the reindeer nutrition regulation should be granted to those who are permanently resident in Sweden. There was a certain spread of reputation, and it was speculated whether the responsible authorities, the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the county boards, would comply with the government's decree. Of course they should. All the county administrative boards and the Swedish Board of Agriculture have clarified and determined how to relate to the reindeer industry regulation, while at the same time dealing with free movement and not limiting foreign hunters' opportunities to participate in hunting traditions and the opportunities offered by the tourism industry. This means that the first three weeks the hunt will be folded for Swedish hunters and those EU citizens who have reached closer ties to Sweden, have real estate or other things. After three weeks, you can let others go. It will create less damage to nature, provide better conditions for the tourism industry and provide a longer hunting period. Overall, the government has fulfilled everything that Parliament and we Social Democrats have said we should do. We've been ticking off an election promise. Mr President, I would like to There has been some concern that the EU weapons directive would have negative consequences for Swedish hunters and sportsmen. The Government, under the leadership of Minister for the Interior Anders Ygeman, has done a good job and has received the vast majority of Swedish views in dialogue with the European Commission. Mr President, I would like to The government won't pick up the guns from law-abiding people. When it comes to diseases such as avian flu, mad cow disease and now also chronic wasting disease, it is very important that we are observant. The Swedish Board of Agriculture decided in November 2016 on specific provisions and measures regarding CWD. It is also important that all those who move in forest and land, and not least hunters, are observant and report on whether they see diseases or other things that we should take care of. We see that such diseases can cause considerable harm. I can conclude by stating that the current government has brought order to the predators' administration. We have also now received a judgment from the Supreme Administrative Court that gives the Government's decisions, the Riksdag decisions, the County Administrative Board's decisions and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's decisions right all the way. It has also caused a new calm to lie out in the country. A balanced, selective licence hunt on our large predators and a number of protection hunts have been carried out without concern. We now have a great hope that we have found a management model that most people can accept. Mr President, I would like to Wildlife care is not the valet of populism. We Social Democrats are taking on the major challenges that we see and which will be put in the way ahead of us. We will maintain order and order, and we will help to maintain the confidence of the broad public.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-825	Mr President, I would like to The change in the composition of the game management delegations was a concession to the Green Party as part of a larger settlement involving predatory policy. This has been declared by Isak From himself. Wasn't it a huge concession to give environmental and conservation interests twice as much influence as hunter interests? It has experienced under-representation, which is why it wants a better balance. The County Governor is in the Wildlife Management Delegations. From April 2017, it will be like this: the governor, five members who are political representatives and elected in four years, one member with knowledge of road safety and illegal hunting, one who represents the hunting and wildlife interest, one who represents the outdoor interest, one who represents the owner and user of agricultural land, one who represents local business and tourism, one who represents the nature and ecotourism companies, one who represents the forest industry and two members who represent the conservation interest. That's what you call balance. If it turns out that the five elected politicians in the delegations contribute to overweight in some direction, is that not precisely why they are elected by the people to think things? It is a bad thing to try to correct the voice of elected representatives and reduce it by adding an extra vote through a change of regulation. How does Isak From himself feel about this? Isn't it bad to be doing this in the middle of a term of office?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-828	Mr President, I would like to I can see that when the government took office we did not have order in the predatory administration. We had an appeal circus without its like. This government has created order. The government consists of two parties where the entry values are different. There you have to strike a balance. The government has done that. We have addressed the question of the rights of appeal, the questions of appeal and the question of when decisions are to come. We've moved the chain of decisions to a court and so on. At the same time, we have also had discussions and discussions with the European Commission. We should remember that Sweden had a number of trial cases in the European Commission against us when it came to our wolf management. We've swept that away from the carpet. The European Commission now thinks that this works quite well. Nevertheless, we can see that we made an agreement to review the wildlife management delegations. We can see that in that review it was quite clear that most did not think there would be any politicians in the delegations. We have not removed the politicians. They are still in the majority, and it will be important to find out what the various parties want and think about game management issues locally and regionally. It is not just us at national level who are important in these matters. The membership depends on where you are in the country. Where I come from, the Sami also have a mandate. I may also think that there is a reason why nature farmers come along, as a counterweight to the large forest industry, which is represented. Then we will have to evaluate how it works that the interest in nature has a mandate for.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-832	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Isak! Does the government intend to facilitate wild boar hunting by removing the said permit requirements for surveillance cameras at wild boar baits, or is the intention to continue investigating how to get around the so-called privacy issue? The majority of referrals agree that the current authorisation requirement for monitoring wild boars at baits is replaced by the obligation to notify when a camera is set up. You have said before that the government intends to consider the matter further in the context of the forthcoming review of the Camera Surveillance Act. What is the timetable there?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-835	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my speech, Runar Filer, an investigation will land on the government table on 15 June this year. Then the government will prepare and see how soon you can return here. However, our ambition is that we should be able to present this issue here. We want to get things sorted out so that the necessary balances can be made for ethical reasons: which animals should be shot and which can not be shot? Do they have cults or not? The ambition is absolutely that this should be addressed.
i-SdULVXAw2G8FKEuTCH1uYz	Mr President, I would like to In his speech, Isak From mentioned the proposal on wild boar and feeding that was discussed in this House last autumn. He said it was the partial report of the Hunting Law investigation appointed by the Alliance that became the bill. What Isak From forgets to tell you is that the investigation was turned into a bill by the Government Office. That bill was so bad that we could not deal with it in this House. So we sent it back to the government and asked the government to come back with a new proposal. So we are standing here today and we are still debating the issue. We are quite in agreement, the Social Democrats and the Moderates, that we need to find a policy and a management of wild boars that works. So my question to Isak From is: When does the government intend to come back with a well-written bill on feeding?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-839	Mr President, I would like to In the hunting team report, the government used the previous government's and former rural minister Eskil Erlandsson's investigation as a basis. The views of the consultative bodies were also taken into account as to how this should be organised. It is the governments, Åsa Coenraads, that shape the proposals. Then the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats rejected the whole bill in the first place. After all, we could have made an announcement to steer things up if there were any question marks. But instead this is totally rejected, and that is why the bourgeois parties receive massive criticism out in rural Sweden and from the members of the LRF. What on earth were they thinking? It rejects this, which it has been working on for so long to get things right, in order to be able to make regional balances. Now we're gonna have to work on this. As I said in my speech, we are now trying to work out voluntary agreements. But putting forward such a bill here in Parliament, with this opposition, does not seem feasible.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-842	Mr President, I would like to I think we are dropping the issue of wild boar and feeding completely, because the government renounces all responsibility. There is not much to be included in this House if responsibility is renounced. We will simply have to address this issue again in the next parliamentary term and hope that we will then have a new government that will be able to deal with this. However, I would like to touch on something else that Isak From mentioned in his speech, namely order and order in predator management, particularly in the middle predator management area. I myself come from Västmanland, a county that is part of that area, and I would like to say that there is no order in the predator management in central Sweden. We have poorly functioning game management missions. People are dropping out of delegations because they are completely meaningless. The County Administrative Boards and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency take decisions over the heads of the delegations and in violation of their intentions. So I wonder, Isak From, when you come back on the question of really bringing decisions closer to the people they touch, as was intended with the game management delegations.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-846	Mr President, I would like to The government will probably come back again on this issue too, because it is clear that we also see poor equivalence between county boards. The members of the game management delegations are given different rights and opportunities for training on these important issues and different opportunities for support. I think that this is totally unacceptable and something that must, of course, be corrected. Then, Åsa Coenraads, it gets a little pathetic when it comes to wild boar issues. You have rejected a bill submitted to the Swedish Parliament to create some sort of order and you hold us to account for it. Ask your farmers in the fields and out in the counties and districts! Who is responsible for the farms being fined up, the fields trampled down and the land of the summer stugers destroyed? Who is responsible for destroying the neighbor's forest land? This is because the game administration does not work because someone has abused their property rights. What we can do now is try to create understanding and some kind of agreement, initially anyway, so that we can get away from the very worst of them.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-849	Mr President, I would like to We are here to debate the report on hunting and game conservation, and I would like to begin by calling for approval of the committee's proposal as a whole. As usual, this is a subject that both engages and to some extent polarises; there are strong interests in this. We also see that hunters are often a very committed group. Right now we have a positive trend in terms of the number of people taking the hunter'sxamen: They are getting more and more. It is very nice to see that interest in these issues is increasing. On the other hand, we see a negative trend in the number of active hunters. The number of state hunting cards is falling. So there is a great deal of interest in the questions, but perhaps not in the traditional sense that we are thinking of going out and felling an animal. Many people want to take the hunter's taxamen and perhaps also see other interests, such as wildlife conservation, nature conservation and wildlife tourism. Hunting and wildlife conservation affect far more people than only those who hunt: outdoor life, tourism and the interest of nature and those who are out in the forest and land and pick berries or are out with school classes. It is therefore important that game hunting and management be carried out in such a way that it creates acceptance and is rooted in society. We see today that this is not always the case. There are conflicts of interest, and sometimes they get very infected. It could be tough and polarized. For the Green Party, it is important that hunting is modernised and harmonised with the rest of society and that we have modern, ecosystem-based and adaptive management models in terms of the game we have and the nature conservation that is carried out, as well as that we can have local roots for what is happening and what we are doing. There have been some good things going on there. Isak mentioned much that the government has done. I would also like to highlight, for example, that we have changed the mountain hunt so that the Swedish hunters take precedence for the first three weeks. There will be priority for those of us who are local hunters. However, the carpet is not entirely withdrawn for visitors and hunting tourism, but they will have to wait three more weeks. The government has also announced an amendment to the game management delegations, which has already been raised in the debate here. The government has made an evaluation and concluded that it is actually possible to screw a little here. On the whole, it works pretty well. It is a bit different in different parts of the country, but what has been said in the evaluation is that the composition has not been optimal. There are some interests that have been under-represented in relation to others. This is why, from April onwards, one member from the environmental and nature conservation organisations and another member from the nature and eco-tourism sides have been set up. This is also important for local anchoring. So far, local business and tourism have had a place. Now that ecotourism and nature tourism, which actually uses the forest, have a voice, I think it will be very good. It provides a better overall view, and it is also a modern view of how we use the resource. You don't always have to go out and trap the game to make it a good hunting resource. Sometimes you are out looking at it or have other interests. Finally, as always, I would like to strike a blow for multi-stakeholder management. It is out of fashion to manage one animal species at a time, as we are doing now. Moose administration has been modernised. 2012 came new guidelines. That's good. In some places it has also been combined with the wild boar administration. That's even better. In some other places attempts have also been made with the management of cloven-hoofed game. That's even better. I and the Green Party believe that we cannot see this in reeds. All species interact. We must have ecosystem-based game management. We need to see how the different species interact, how they compete for food and place, and how they sometimes also benefit each other. We now have in central Sweden a sandwich table of various game species: elk, wild boar, deer and dovhjort, except fox, hare and other small game. This must be managed together in order for us to have a sustainable and good game management. We have to think of it as an ecosystem. Last year I talked about SLU's research in the field of multi-stakeholder management and ecosystem-based management, and it turned out that there are results that show that this is quite possible and a good way to go. I believe and hope that we can go that way. In the talks I have had with the Jägarförbundet, I have the impression that they too want to go this way, with multi-stakeholder management. I therefore hope that we can see the whole picture and talk about game farming, game conservation and game management areas rather than individual species. When we have an ecosystem-based management that takes account of what it looks like, a management that goes along with today's knowledge, which is modern and takes account of what it looks like today and what interests there are today, I think we have the key to modern hunting and game conservation. This is something we in the government parties are already working for.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-861	Mr President, I would like to It is a pleasure to debate something in the field of the environment and agriculture that I do not usually debate. It's exciting. I have grown up with the hunt as one of the most important hobbies my father had, and since then it became of course a great interest to me too. I will now briefly summarise some of the report MJU11 Hunting and game conservation. The Left Party does not have its own motions concerning the report, but I will nevertheless comment a little on different headings. Wild boar management is the first heading. Here I can only say that the work on the management of wild boars and how this is to be done is going on and that the importance of local collaboration between hunters and farmers is probably one of the key factors for successful and balanced management of wild boars. Hunting times are the next headline. Here I can only agree with the conclusion that the government is also approaching. This applies, of course, to the start time of the moose hunt, which is close to my heart: Why should it always start on a Monday? I remember the frustration I felt several times when the moose hunt was about to begin and the holiday days were largely spent. Then you had to wait until Saturday before you had to go out on the premiere tour if you did not have holiday days or comp time that you could use. The fact that you can't move the start by two days and to claim that it has to do with burn time or something like that is nonsense, and everyone who hunts knows that. Brunsten can vary a week here or there. Then the start could be moved a week forward or backwards. I look forward to what the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will come up with on the regulation on hunting times. I guess I'll bring up a little bit about the off-road driving, too. I've seen how important the hunt is to the people who have it as their greatest recreational interest. Then I think that those with disabilities should also be able to use the tools at hand, so that the hunt can be made possible for them. That includes off-road vehicles. Of course they should be able to use these, but with clear rules, of course, as with anything else related to hunting. With regard to mountain hunting, I note that I share the government's position when opening the first three weeks to Swedish hunters. I would think that with good rules and controls for how the hunt is conducted, even with hunting guests it can probably work so that anyone who hunts in the mountains can continue to do this without there being conflicts. Here I can't help but tell you about when I got the chance to go hunting in Stockholm's forest management – Domänskog, as it was called then – hunt deer here in the hooks. I think it was 1987 or 1988. Then we had an exchange in Domain to see the differences between how it was in the north and how it was down here in Stockholm. Well, there was a pysch hunt on deer, and I was driven out to a clearing at a pasture. I sat there and watched the edge, where there would be deer, according to the instructions. Suddenly there came a flock of horses passing, and then some cows grazing where I thought deer would appear. I then asked the guide who picked me up if there was any microscopic chance that there would be deer there. He said: Yes, there were some left, but the king with company had hunted there a week before, and they had got decent deer. Here I can draw the parallel that it might not be entirely wrong that those who fight in the mines and make sure that everything works in the interior and the mountain world could also be the first to hunt, as the king in the case of deer hunting in Stockholm. The hunt is important to society in many ways. Reproductive value is administered. But it also has a community mission to maintain a balance in grazing pressure, game management, number of predators and much more. I wasn't going to mention predators, but I'm just saying this: I understand the frustration of the pet owners who suffer from predator attacks. I myself have had grazing animals of the breed highland cattle. The cows gave birth to the calves outside. Most of the time, they were tried to control them to feed in bare - ground times. But it didn't always work out. I remember when a cow gave birth at the beginning of May. The calf was well and made it even though there was snow left on the ground. Then one morning a bear roamed by and took the calf. The bear thought that veal might taste good. The feeling when you see what has happened makes you balanced in discussions about predators. I don't hate predators. I don't even hate the bear who took this calf. But I don't think you should be immune to bringing in these stories either. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I am in favour of the committee's proposal in the report.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-875	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by stating that knowledge is power! Today we are debating the government's research proposal in the field of energy. Research is the key to knowledge about the energy system and its power and challenges. It gives us as a country power over our climate impact and security in the energy system, but not only that. Knowledge and new technology do not only benefit those of us who live in Sweden. If we can develop better and cheaper energy production and delivery, such technologies can be used not only here but actually worldwide. Therefore, research is one of the areas where positive externalities, to use some economic terms, make it worthwhile to be the best in the class. Through both the Energy Agreement and ambitions at European level, we have high climate targets. From this point of view, research is needed on renewable energy production, resource efficiency and security of supply in the system. One goal is, of course, just a wish until the tools are in place to achieve that particular goal. This is why new innovations and new technologies that make it easier but, above all, cheaper to reduce energy emissions are crucial. In the Energy Agreement, we have agreed that the focus of efforts in energy research are areas such as: Given this, we are of the opinion that the bill has largely fallen well out. However, it is an issue in which we clearly differ from the government's position, and it is the question of nuclear research. Today, nuclear power, together with hydropower, accounts for the vast majority of Sweden's electricity production. Although wind and solar power gradually increase in production volume, people require a safe supply of electricity even when the sun does not shine and when the wind does not blow. That is why everything indicates that we will continue to have nuclear power for the foreseeable future. It also rhymes with the objectives of research in the Energy Agreement. Without the security of carbon-free electricity production, which nuclear power currently represents, we, given the weather situation, are not currently able to meet the target of zero or negative net greenhouse gas emissions – provided, of course, that security of supply is safeguarded. Given this, it seems obvious that as long as we have nuclear power plants in Sweden, we want them to be manned with first-class technical competence. We want them to be operated as efficiently as possible and the waste to be stored as safely as possible. All this requires knowledge, which requires research. Unfortunately, the government seems to have ideological blindfolds on this issue. It wants to invest in renewable energy and refers to this also in terms of research funding. Yes, we all agree on investments in renewable energy, but regardless of ideology nuclear energy will remain, at least for the foreseeable future. Is it not in everyone's interest, at least for the time being, to ensure that nuclear power plants are run in the best possible and most efficient way? And is it not in everyone's interest that we store the waste as safely as possible? We believe that nuclear power, as one of our most important types of power, should be treated equally as the rest of Sweden's relevant power teams also in the Swedish Energy Agency's allocation of research grants – this in order to be able to manage the existing Swedish reactors, have the competence to build new ones if you want to or have the competence to dismantle the older reactors in a safe and responsible way if you want to. Let me finish where I started! Knowledge is power. In order to have the power to achieve our climate and energy policy goals, more knowledge is needed – and this within all relevant forces. For time winning, I only ask for the Moderates' reservation 2.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-885	Mr President, I would like to At the outset, I would like to call for the approval of reservation 9 in the report. We are also behind our second reservation, but we are content with this for time winning. The Swedish Democrats take a positive view of large parts of the bill when it comes to horizontal issues, although there are of course some nuances and different opinions. But we believe it is important that the research carried out should ultimately result in products that are viable on the Swedish and international markets. Goods and services emerging from Swedish energy research should contribute to increased exports, real growth and international market shares. The research will aim precisely at Sweden being able to generate products that are competitive and not only designed to stimulate visions that ultimately cannot bear their own costs without endless subsidies. There is therefore a need to distinguish growth through subsidies and real growth generated through healthy competitive conditions. The Swedish Democrats are in favour of a coherent research strategy with targeted efforts to prioritise research areas and actions that result in a good societal benefit, reduced greenhouse gas emissions and reduced carbon leakage. Much of the potential of environmental and energy technologies is not primarily related to energy sources or energy sources, but is more about application and governance. There is a great deal of political agreement on it, which should perhaps be emphasised. But the political, geological and global economic market is constantly changing. This means that the conditions, needs and uses can also change regarding the utility of the Energy Act. The opinion of the Swedish democrats is therefore that research on all fossil-free forms of energy is important in order to achieve the goals of Swedish energy research. It will be right here, Mr President, that the dividing line is the main one. On the environmental side, there are many good thoughts and ideas about fossil-free, but on the energy side, five of the eight parties in the Riksdag have primarily made proposals that it should be spent exclusively on renewables. Fossil-free is set against renewables alone. It becomes problematic with a lock for exports where the starting point is only to meet the needs of Sweden or to have Sweden as a model for goods and services that can be exported. It is understandable to talk at a global and a European level about precisely an energy transition, where a significant proportion of, for example, power generation is fossil fuel and gives rise to large-scale greenhouse gas emissions. But in Sweden the situation is directly opposite. Our power system is for a long time almost completely fossil-free and has very small greenhouse gas emissions. Yet several parties here talk about an energy transition for the Swedish part. It is important to remember, then, that it is not a question of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but, on the contrary, it is prepared to increase these emissions, provided that it reaches 100% renewable for ideological reasons. At the same time, the Swedish Democrats have no objection to our research into renewable energy sources – quite the opposite. A large part of our power and heat production is already renewable and strategically important for the country's energy supply. On the other hand, certain renewable energy sources are severely restricted. For example, wave or solar power will never play a decisive role in the Swedish power system because it does not have a production profile that meets the needs we have in the country. Above all, it is the dark and cold winter months that are the big challenge for Sweden. Even a sufficiently large establishment of solar power would destroy the conditions for other parts of the power system during, for example, the summer months. But just because the potential is less for these energy sources right here does not mean that we should not be researching them. The opportunities globally for solar power, for example, are very good, and in many countries it will probably be the completely dominant power source, which also means that there will be opportunities for Swedish innovations around solar power to create exports and growth. Mr President, I would like to Now that one of the proposed new energy policy objectives for Sweden is to be fully renewable, it forecloses research and innovation on other fossil-free forms of energy. In practice, both during the year of the Alliance in power and under red governments of various nuances for a long time, this has meant that efforts have been effectively withheld from nuclear research, even though nuclear power has for a long time accounted for up to half of our power supply and that Sweden has accommodated 12 nuclear reactors. At the moment, more nuclear power is also being built around the world than for a very long time, and in 2015 the installed power for nuclear power was higher than in over 25 years. In 2016, that level was also exceeded, and the level appears to be well passed in 2017. A future potential for the export of Swedish technology in the field of nuclear fuel and new nuclear energy is fully conceivable. It is mainly around the reactor types popularly known as fourth generation nuclear power that the greatest opportunities exist. These are fast reactors where the nuclear fuel previously used can be reused. These reactor types open up completely new perspectives, as nuclear power can continue to be produced with unabated or increased power for thousands of years to come without having to break any new uranium at all. In 2014, such a research reactor was also available in Sweden. It was applied for state research funding for such conduct in Sweden, and the advanced design had been developed in collaboration with the Swedish steel industry. This was something that the current government chose not to invest in. Instead, there is now such an application from the same researcher to build this research reactor in Canada, where the entire investment cost has been financed by private funds from an Indian company which, in addition, has also bought into the company as a partner. The investment that the Indian company has made and intends to make is greater than the total amount of Sweden's annual funding for energy research, which shows what interest there is globally. This if anything had been well-invested tax funds in Sweden, along with the Swedish steel industry. Sadly, this was not the case. But also in view of the fact that our remaining reactors in Sweden have a technical lifetime ahead in 2045 and that the operation of our intermediate warehouse is decades beyond there is a need to maintain nuclear competence and to attract young people to join the industry. To then completely exclude research in the field and believe that nothing will happen in a few decades is incredibly naive. Looking only at developments on the nuclear fuel side and the degree of combustion of nuclear fuel, a great deal has happened in recent decades, and a great deal is likely to happen in the coming years too. In order to be able to secure the skills for the future, we believe that more efforts must be made and that it is now important to ensure the safe continued operation of the existing reactors. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that it is at least gratifying that there are apparently different interpretations of the Energy Commission's conclusions on what to do with research and that, in this respect, it was not more than two months before parts of the proposals have apparently fallen.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-905	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 7 and for time to be won to leave the others on the record. Research is a cornerstone of development. Progress and ideas can come in many ways, but taking the idea from the drawing board to reality often requires resources– sometimes more, sometimes less. No matter what, we need good structures and a little different ways to go. I am pleased that the government is putting forward an energy research proposal which is very much based on it from the alliance government. It creates long-term sustainability and good conditions to build on a good research tradition. The objectives of research policy also build on the tradition of the Alliance. It is about building scientific and technical knowledge and competence as well as developing technology and services that can become good business in the green transition that we have actually started in Sweden. We will also contribute to and participate in the international discussion in the field of energy, where we can participate in our cutting-edge technology and help with business also internationally. It's amazing to see how the development has been in recent years. The costs of renewable technologies have fallen and efficiency has increased dramatically. It offers good opportunities to continue cutting costs. But there are still some things that I want to lift up that are a little worrying. There is one area in which we in politics are much better than the energy industry. It's about equality. On today's list of speakers – although two people are ill – we are just as many men as women. It's unusual in the energy industry. Here is a big job to do with the skewed gender distribution. It is about increasing interest in this type of training and jobs among women. An initiative like the Power Women I think is fantastic. We in the Center Party want to point out and really emphasise that gender equality must permeate all the institutions' activities, from the recruitment and appointment of boards and management bodies to research efforts and the allocation of resources. It is also important because we have a problem in Sweden: Too few people train themselves as engineers and in vocational training with a focus on energy, among other things. Then we need to take advantage of the interest of all citizens in this, not just of those who happen to be of a certain sex. But just as there are many different people in Sweden, there are also many different types of power with different properties. I often talk about the potential of solar energy, and I have criticised the government's solar tax so much that they had to reduce it radically. Today, however, I would like to devote time to highlighting a force which we do not talk about as much and which we should perhaps also do much more research than we normally talk about. It is our most important energy resource in this transition, the basic bolt for us to complete the entire transition to renewables – hydropower. In the Energy Agreement, we were five parties who agreed that the hydroelectric testing system should be designed in a way that does not become administratively or economically burdensome for the individual. It's gonna be really important. For us in the Center Party it is important to protect property rights and not unnecessarily tear out power plants, especially when we do not have very good knowledge of what happens then. Here is a great research need, a research need that is about how it works when you tear out a power plant dam. What are the effects when, for example, running water, which has not been there for centuries, comes into existence? What happens to poisons in the beach banks? What happens to fish that do not thrive in flowing water? What happens to other wildlife around us? It would also be interesting to discuss and get more research on. Perhaps this is primarily about small hydroelectric power. But there is also a great need for research on large-scale hydropower. Large-scale hydropower will play an increasingly important role. The regulatory need will increase and the role of small hydropower in the energy system will also be important. We need much better knowledge of this. How do we design it? How much effect will we need in the future? How much will water power control be needed? Here the Center Party wants to put in extra research efforts. We are happy to talk about electricity when we talk about energy issues. We need to be able to broaden that discussion, because the major climate challenge is on the transport side when we talk about fuels: the shift from fossil fuels such as coal and oil to renewable fuels such as biodiesel, biogas or electricity. Here we in the Center Party want to highlight the biofuels a little extra. It is about fuels that are made from renewable raw materials – forest, food waste or other – and that also often work in today's engines. Even if we get an energy shift that means that tomorrow we only sell electric cars, we have today's cars left, and they will continue to go for quite a few more years. Then we also need fuels that work in today's engines. On the diesel side there are possibilities. There is something called HVO that works in most of today's engines. But on the petrol side we do not have the same possibilities. Research efforts are needed here. Another area where significantly better production opportunities are needed is aviation fuel. Today, there is a single major manufacturer in the world of renewable fuels for aviation. Then there are some small ones who can make individual contributions. There's a huge potential here. It's about finding new raw materials bases that you can make aviation fuel out of and build up large-scale production in Sweden, because we will need it. We also have the raw material and the expertise to run it. Furthermore, it would of course be much better to replace fossil aviation fuels than to introduce a flight tax. There are many topics to highlight – everything from electric roads to battery storage and how one should be able to charge for electricity grids. All these things are important to continue researching. But there is not infinite time in a speaker's chair. That is why I would like to end by saying that a great deal is happening now. It's really exciting to be in the energy business. That is precisely why research is important – because so much is happening. If we in Sweden are to be on track and be competitive and create jobs, entrepreneurship and a green transition, we also need world-class research. I think that we are basically delivering with this bill. It is my ambition and the Center Party's ambition that we continue to be the world leader in energy research.
i-GWaiENXdA18Sq9NsxC3Rtq	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate on the Enterprise Committee's report No 9 deals first and foremost with the Government's proposal Research and innovation in the energy sector for ecological sustainability, competitiveness and security of supply, but also with a number of related motions. The report also deals with a number of requests for exercise from the general exercise period. I would now like to support the committee's proposal and reject all its reservations. Mr President, I would like to There is something of an energy revolution going on, both here in Sweden and in the rest of the world. More people have access to energy, and an increasing share of the energy we have access to is both renewable and sustainably produced. But much remains to be done, both for more people around the world to have access to electricity and energy and for energy to be both sustainable and renewable. That is the case, but developments are taking place. One of the reasons for this development is undoubtedly the increasing importance and topicality of climate change. The Paris climate agreement was historic, with a broad consensus on the need to limit the effects of global warming. In order to meet this challenge, investments in the energy sector are almost crucial. The energy sector accounts for about two thirds of CO2 emissions in a global context. One of the main tracks must then, of course, be an increased investment in renewable energy in all its forms, but also in other technological developments, such as energy efficiency. A wide range of measures is needed. In order to make the transition, new ideas, innovations and new solutions are also needed, and this calls for proper investment in research and innovation. Energy research and innovation is an important and, in some parts, crucial part of energy policy. It is therefore gratifying to see the increased ambition of the Government proposal, Mr President. It is a bill which represents an approximately 20% increase in the level by 2020. With a success siv increase in 2017 – 2020 we go from a level of approximately 1.3 billion to approximately 1.6 billion SEK per year. It is a real and important increase in ambition. The increase in ambition naturally provides even better conditions for Sweden to continue to be one of the leading countries in this area. In addition to new smart energy solutions on the production side, there are new solutions for distribution and storage, as well as for smart grids, in the extension of energy research and innovation. There are also new digital solutions for energy efficiency, and there are future jobs and jobs. A very clear element of the Government's proposal is that an increased focus should be on areas that provide the conditions for growth and exports. It is both sensible and gratifying that research and innovation can be so clearly reconciled with employment and industrial policy. The challenge in this area lies in being able to combine developments that lead to reduced emissions, better energy efficiency and safer supply of an increasing share of renewable energy. All in all, these developments will lead to ecological sustainability, enhanced competitiveness and increased security of supply. Mr President, I would like to Some of the energy revolution that I mentioned at the outset occurred, as far as its Swedish part was concerned, on 10 June last year, albeit on a small and controlled scale. The energy policy agreement then reached between five of the parliamentary parties was somewhat historic, and it lays an important foundation for our development in this area for a long time to come. I also think that the pragmatism and the joint responsibility required for such a settlement are essential and must characterise energy research in the future. To say the least, it feels natural to focus and concentrate research on the areas that develop the conditions for achieving the goals that we agree on, and this proposal does so in a good way. The proposal on energy research that we are debating here and now is essentially parallel to the government's major research and innovation bill. The balance between free, unbound research and applied research is always an exciting discussion when debating the research proposals of the various governments. To some extent, this is also the case in this area. Of course, it is important that there is a proper space for free and curiosity-driven research. At the same time, a priority of resources is also needed in order to obtain a reasonable exchange of efforts. Mr President, I would like to It is against this background that the priorities set out in the bill, which are based on what is referred to there as the five overall challenges, should be seen. These five overall challenges will then guide the priorities that the Swedish Energy Agency has to make and which will apply during the period 2017 – 2020, namely the nine thematic areas listed in the bill. These thematic areas should then be linked as far as possible to other important efforts made by the government and expressed in the bill as increased ambitions for deployment. Here, the link to the Government's commitment to the strategic cooperation programmes comes into concrete expression. They are five in number: next generation travel and transport, smart cities, circular and bio-based economy, connected industry and new materials, and life science. In at least four of these areas there are very clear links that can and will lead to what the government expresses as having the conditions for growth and exports. Finally, Mr President, I am pleased to note that we are now also focusing on this policy area, energy and energy research, on gender equality issues, and that the Energy Agency is given a clear mandate of this kind. It was about time, to say the least! Another known opportunity for such presentations could be travested by saying: "Sometimes! Finally, once again, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-947	Mr President, I would like to In large part, we agree on this proposal. Much is also in line with the agreement we have reached together. Some of which we do not agree are research into nuclear energy, which I touched upon in my speech. I believe, however, that we on both sides of the block border can endorse the following reality statement: As long as the sun does not shine every day and as long as the wind does not blow every day, nuclear power will have a decisive impact on the energy mix in Sweden for the foreseeable future. Given this, one can think about how it is that the government does not include this as a research area. Regardless of where we stand ideologically on the nuclear issue, we should all want nuclear power to be run as efficiently and safely as possible, that we have first-class expertise in our nuclear power plants in Sweden and that the waste is stored as safely and well as possible. All this knowledge requires research, so my question to Ingemar Nilsson is how it is that you do not want the Swedish Energy Agency to be able to spend a single crown on research on nuclear power.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-951	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Sofia! I noted that in your speech you spoke about knowledge being power, and I share that view. I also share your view that we agree, in essential parts, on the direction of both energy policy and research policy, which is, I hope, logical. The starting point of this research bill is in many respects the agreement we reached last June. As a counter-question, I wonder what has changed in terms of knowledge since the previous government, that is, the alliance government for which you are here to some extent a representative, even if you were not there at the time. I ask the question because the corresponding research proposal that was put forward then also did not include any funding in this area, for nuclear research. What's changed? What's so different? The horizon for nuclear research and for the continued operation of nuclear power is no different, and that is also why the energy deal looks like it does. What is different now from 2012 – 2013, when the previous energy research bill was presented? I haven't found any decisive differences. The government has apparently not found any decisive differences either, so this time the research bill looks like it does.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-956	Mr President, I would like to As a moderate, I can wish that the Social Democrats reasoned this way in more areas – you can actually continue to do something like the previous government did. If that had been the case in more areas, I think we could have got along better on many political issues. Now, however, it is you who are in a position of government, and then it is also you who have to answer why the research bill looks like it does. We have quite clear reservations in this area. We believe that research into nuclear power must also be carried out, because we must have the best possible expertise in our nuclear power plants. We must ensure that waste is stored as safely as possible and that its operation is as efficient as possible. We can stand here forever and talk about governments, from the last and the past to the far back. But I would like answers from the current government. Why shouldn't nuclear power be researched?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-960	Mr President, I would like to It is not true that there is no nuclear research in Sweden – on the contrary, it actually does. The difference is that this bill does not put any money in order for the State Energy Authority to devote itself to nuclear research. You are calling for skills and knowledge about nuclear safety and other things, which you also mentioned in your speech. I would like to point out that both the Swedish National Radiation Safety Authority, SSM, and the Swedish Research Council, Energiforsk and the Swedish Nuclear Centre are engaged in research in the field of nuclear technology. SSM has a clear government mandate to supply the existing nuclear power plants and waste management with nuclear competence. It has an extremely clear mission to do this, both in terms of skills provision and skills development. I believe that what you are calling for is well served, even if it is not in this bill.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-964	Mr President, I would like to Research has been and will continue to be central to the development of our energy system. New technological solutions are constantly being developed, and it is a challenge for a politician to keep up-to-date on technological developments. The Paris Agreement places further focus on developing new solutions for renewable energy and energy efficiency. The current government has increased the funding for energy research compared to the previous government. Much of the focus on energy research remains over mandates, and that is very positive for the long-term and stability. The ambition is to combine ecological sustainability, competitiveness and security of supply. In June 2016, the energy agreement between five parties, where the long-term energy policy was established, was presented with a target of 100 percent renewable electricity generation in 2040. The agreement further states that energy research has a crucial role to play in ensuring that new, innovative technologies can emerge for all renewable energies. Research and innovation will focus on those areas that contribute to achieving climate and energy policy goals and that have the potential for growth and exports for our country. The actions will focus on technology development and demonstration and pilot projects, and I can see that many exciting research projects are under way with this focus. The Swedish Energy Agency is funding a project together with SSAB, LKAB and Vattenfall to reach a carbon-free steel industry. This initiative can be one of the key keys to achieving the government's goal of Sweden being one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. This is a climate offensive. This week the Swedish Energy Agency has decided to finance a four-year research project with SEK 99 million. A 100% conversion of renewable energy and electrification of the fleet of vehicles requires that we can develop battery technology. For several years, Sweden has had a great deal of expertise in research into battery technology. We are now discussing the establishment of a large-scale plant for the production of such batteries in Sweden. Such a plant could support much of Europe's growing need for batteries. In parallel with work on sustainability and how the metals can be recycled, this is a project that the Green Party very much welcomes. Research and development, which is not always as visible as the media, but equally important, are the successive advances made in technology development. Wind power and solar energy are becoming increasingly efficient while costs are falling. Solar cells have fallen in price by 80 percent in five years while the effect has increased. The International Energy Agency (IEA) estimates that offshore wind energy will be cheaper in the future than land-based wind energy, with the rapid technological development taking place there. New options for biofuels are being developed, for example from algae, and more energy efficient products can reduce energy consumption. Mr President, I would like to While there is a very rapid technological development of renewable energy and environmental technology, there are some parties that want to spend government research funding on ideas about new nuclear power. I note that the Moderates do not state clearly what form of nuclear research they want to spend money on. But let me make it clear that there is already research on how to deal with existing waste, how to run nuclear power safely and how to phase out nuclear power. Such research exists and is funded, for example, through the Nuclear Waste Fund. Let me make it clear that research into new nuclear power has never been prohibited in Sweden. There is a tough myth about this. Sweden has had nuclear research since the late 40s, and I can see that it has not produced much results but has cost a lot of money. Even the Swedish Research Council does not support a research initiative on the so-called fourth generation nuclear technology. The Liberals' party leader Jan Björklund experienced this when he submitted such an application as the minister responsible for the previous parliamentary term and received the answer that the situation we are seeing today was very questionable. Mr President, I would like to In the world, renewable energy is growing fastest. For a long time more nuclear reactors have been decommissioned than new ones have been built. When the global market demands renewable energy and Sweden is at the forefront, everything is in favour of investing in renewable energy and not in nuclear energy. You can be last with the old or first with the new. I believe that Sweden has everything to gain globally by investing in renewable energy. It is reasonable that new research funding should focus on reaching the national target of 100% renewable energy. Mr President, I would like to I'm in favour of the bill.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-981	Mr President, I would like to Surely the title of the report, Research and Innovation in the energy sector for ecological sustainability, competitiveness and security of supply, sounds like something that must include everything? Much as the proposal Research and innovation in the energy sector deals with, the Left Party thinks it is good – yes, even most of it. What emerges from the text at least ten times is that efforts in energy research should focus on areas that contribute to achieving climate and energy policy objectives as well as conditions for growth and exports. It also sounds like something that everyone can support. When it comes to these objectives, we in Sweden are far ahead if we compare ourselves with just some of our neighbours, and we should clearly be proud of that. But for that reason we should not sit back and believe that everything that can be improved has been done or that someone else should. I am pleased that the government is setting its foot and notes that research into non-renewable energy sources has no place in the publicly funded research world. As an industry-dependent country, we have many large industries in need of large amounts of electrical energy. We shall, of course, ensure that research that leads to less emissions, and ultimately to fossil independence, will receive the research funding needed for us to continue to be a welfare country with an industrial sector that can sit as world best even in the eyes of the environmental movement. Mr President, I would like to I am not going to be slow this time in defending report NU9, as it is called. But let me say that I am looking forward to a future in which society will have to take a little more responsibility for research and innovation in investments that cannot be counted home in the short term, because market forces efforts tend to turn around when the future playing field feels uncertain or pay-off time feels too long. However, when everything is in place and new technology starts to yield returns, everyone is prepared to enter as owner and be the ones sharing the profits. I really see an exciting future ahead of me with new smart grids, new technology solutions together with production and transmission, business models that we haven't seen before, storage, new solutions for industry, renewable production solutions that exist in small and large plants – not to mention what change the transport sector will face and we will experience. Mr President, I would like to When I had decided what to say in the debate, the news came of the Swedish Energy Agency's investment of 56 million in the company that Vattenfall, LKAB and SSAB are to form. There they themselves enter with 46 million in the project that will end in fossil-free steel production. It really feels like something that we should support and keep our fingers crossed for them to succeed with. As Ingemar was also into it, it feels pretty reasonable that with this plan we will have more than SEK 1.6 billion for research and innovation in 2020. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal for a decision.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-992	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are in favour of cooperation between countries on energy and climate issues where a global perspective is needed. However, we have been critical of the joint European Energy Union that the EU has been launching for some time now and of several of the proposals put forward by the Commission in the so-called winter package. This is mainly due to the fact that the proposals are characterised by a great lack of clarity in terms of both implementation and funding and a lack of realistic commitments. Through the current winter package, the Commission wants to introduce additional legislation to strengthen the Energy Union. The Commission argues that it will reduce the administrative burden on Member States. The question is whether there is anyone who seriously believes in this. At least we are prepared to argue the opposite in view of Europe's ever-growing and cost-driven projects. The proposal for a regulation on the governance of the Energy Union concerns more than 50 actions in the field of energy through legislative measures to ensure that Member States contribute. We believe that Sweden does not need more binding legislative measures as Swedish electricity production is largely free from carbon dioxide emissions. Instead, we want to highlight the importance and importance of global carbon leakage and European competitiveness in future negotiations. In addition, we call for a cost analysis of investment in infrastructure, renewable energy, subsidies and the allocation of European funds. While trade with other countries in the field of energy has considerable advantages, it remains important to safeguard security of supply, as it is primarily in the interests of nations to secure their own electricity generation and diversification. We also recognise the importance of reducing imports of energy from politically unstable states. Security of supply is also about making realistic priorities out of the different types of energy. We see it as unrealistic to want to renounce fossil fuels and to phase out nuclear power in order to replace its a with renewable intermittent energies. With regard to the proposals on energy efficiency, it is important that the differences between Member States are better and more realistic, and the objectives should be set accordingly. We have previously highlighted the problem on behalf of Sweden by setting concrete energy efficiency targets as a percentage because, for example, Swedish building standards are of high quality and our Nordic climate differs from the climate in other parts of Europe. This is something that results in the cost of binding targets for energy efficiency increasing disproportionately between countries, to the detriment of Sweden, among others. We believe it is urgent that the EU's energy efficiency objectives can be achieved in the most cost-effective way possible. In order for this to happen, it needs to be possible for the Member States themselves to design instruments, detailed rules and concrete measures to contribute to the achievement of the EU's objectives. Detailed management at EU level that does not allow solutions adapted to national, regional and local circumstances for the benefit of cost-effective achievement of objectives should therefore not be accepted. These include the Commission's proposed provisions on individual measurement and billing, IMD, for thermal energy. In our opinion, IMD for thermal energy risks reducing the incentives for property owners to implement technical measures for energy efficiency of buildings, which usually involve greater energy savings than behavioural changes can give rise to. We are also strongly critical of the Commission's proposal to require Member States to open up their support schemes for renewable electricity generation in other Member States with at least a specified share of the newly supported renewable generation capacity. We are also critical of the Commission's proposal to harmonise distribution activities, which proposes the right to decide in delegated acts on rules on distribution tariffs, connection charges, technical requirements, data exchange, demand response, aggregators and information security. The regulatory framework limits Member States' ability to put in place capacity mechanisms before all market-based measures have been exhausted, and a capacity mechanism must meet the requirements now proposed. There is also a proposal for a common methodology to be developed to assess the risks of power shortages in the Member States and to provide a basis for assessing the need for capacity mechanisms. We are critical of this as it further limits the Member States' ability to shape their own energy policy as they wish. We believe that vulnerable customers should be protected primarily by social policy measures rather than by including this as part of energy policy. Unfortunately, we can see a certain trend in the Commission's weaving of socio-economic proposals into, among other things, energy and nutrition policy. We see this as an attempt to conceal certain increases in costs rather than being open with the policies pursued and acting accordingly. With this, Madam President, I would like to endorse our reservation of reasons in the opinion.
i-RNbJohTXMgXXAcHW8oscbo	Madam President, I would like So now it is time for the second tense debate of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy for the day, the review report on the communication on clean energy for all in the European Union. In this review opinion, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has delivered its opinion on Commission Communication No 860. It is a comprehensive communication that has become best known as part of the so-called winter package. It is a communication without sharp legislative proposals and sets out forthcoming revisions in a number of areas, including energy efficiency, the Renewables Directive, electricity market design, security of supply and governance systems for the Energy Union. No less than seven different pieces of legislation have been landed and referred to the Committee on Economic Affairs. We have reason to come back to them. The Commission's overall picture is that this will help to speed up the transition to clean energy, boost growth and create new jobs. It also states that the winter package has three main objectives: 中 putting energy efficiency first 中 become a world leader in renewable energy . provide consumers with a level playing field. Madam President, I would like A very broad majority in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is in favour of the Commission's communication, which is the subject of the debate and the opinion. We welcome the ambition to give priority to the Paris Agreement, and we believe it is important for the EU to maintain and increase its level of ambition in relation to the agreement over time. Having said that, however, I would like to point out a few points that we, the majority of the committees, highlight and underline in our opinion. They are important to see in a national context. It is a question of giving EU Member States the opportunity to choose, as far as possible, how to achieve these requirements and of the importance of governance and follow-up in order to achieve the objectives of the Energy Union. It is also about the fact that the proposals on individual measurement and billing, so-called IMD, are as problematic now as when I was involved in debating them in this House a number of years ago. Our criticism and warning of the fact that the proposal is counterproductive remains. It is also about our being pleased with the wording on district heating and its role and potential to achieve the objectives of the EU Energy Union. In particular, we would like to emphasise the central role of sustainable biofuels in a circular and bio-based economy. With regard to sustainability criteria for solid biofuels, we would like to emphasise that sustainable biofuels that replace fossil fuels necessarily provide significant environmental benefits. In this context, it is also particularly important to safeguard and demonstrate the importance of the Member States being and having to remain self-determination in the design and implementation of national forestry policies. With this, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservation.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1014	Madam President, I would like It is fundamentally positive that the EU is taking the climate challenge seriously. The Paris Agreement was not just negotiated. Now there are also a number of proposals on the agenda, which no longer only concern the question of what the objectives should be but also how the objectives should be achieved. Because it is easy to sit on one's chamber and set high targets, but it is quite another thing to bring about measures that map out the way there. Today we are discussing some of the steps along that road. An integrated energy market, or so-called Energy Union, throughout the EU is important for solving the climate challenges we face. By allocating, producing and using energy where it is most efficient, our resources will also be allocated more efficiently. It will be a real internal market for energy with trade between countries. For this to be possible, investments are needed to increase the interconnection of Europe's electricity networks both between countries and within countries, as in Germany, for example. For Sweden, where we move rapidly towards a surplus of energy, the Energy Union opens up better export opportunities that benefit both our economy and our competitiveness. There is also another aspect. The better countries in the EU will be to secure their own electricity supply through cooperation and increased trade with each other, the less dependence on imports from outside the EU. For example, the dependence on Russian gas, which many countries today have, poses a greater and greater threat to security policy as Russia becomes a more aggressive player in world politics. In this spirit and with this background, we support the opinion that the committee has given to the Commission. I will just briefly mention some important points to us in the opinion. It is positive that the Commission attaches great importance to energy efficiency and also increases the level of ambition for this. As I said, we support the interconnection of electricity networks. It is also a good thing that the Commission is lifting the long-term rules of the energy market, where consumer choice is at the heart of the issue. However, we are concerned about those parts where the Commission does not fully safeguard national competence and the possibility of drafting legislation itself. For example, this concerns district heating and forestry policy, as mentioned earlier in the speaker's chair. We, like the committee, are critical of the rules on individual measurement and billing of thermal energy, because the cost of this is not always proportionate to the energy savings, which means that the proposal risks failing. In addition, it is important to avoid detailed EU governance in general where national solutions exist or where innovation is at risk of being hindered. However, all of this is highlighted in the opinion, which is why we are in favour of this and look forward to the Commission hearing our views. With this, I thank you for the floor and would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1021	Madam President, I would like The package of proposals put forward by the European Commission is central to the further development of the energy market in the EU Member States. I therefore welcome the fact that we are having this debate in the Swedish Parliament. This package should be seen in the light of the so-called 2030 targets set by the European Council in 2014. The Swedish government wanted higher ambitions in the targets than those decided on. Unfortunately, a majority in the Riksdag reduced the government's mandate to vote for higher targets. In preparation for the 2014 Summit, the Government sought to push the 50 per cent reduction in climate emissions, 40 per cent renewable energy and 30 per cent energy efficiency. The line that prevailed in the EU Board was that which the alliance parties supported together with the Swedish Democrats and which meant that Sweden went forward at the EU Summit with a line of 40% reduction in climate emissions, 27% renewable energy and 27% energy efficiency – a proposal that is identical to what the European Commission decided, with the exception that the Alliance wanted to allow 10 percent reductions in climate emissions in other countries. Since these targets for climate emissions, renewable energy and energy efficiency were set, world leaders have agreed on the Paris Agreement, which means that all countries must now raise their ambitions for renewable energy and energy efficiency. The EU ETS does not provide the necessary governance. At the moment, major efforts are being made to reform the emissions trading system for the future. I am pleased that Sweden's climate minister Isabella Lövin yesterday made great progress in taking care of some of the surplus that exists and is a problem in the climate system. However, the European Parliament has recently voted against a tightening-up, unfortunately with the support of Swedish MEPs from the Moderates, Christian Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals. With an EU ETS that does not manage enough, all tools are now needed to reduce climate emissions and accelerate the energy transition. Strengthening the target of energy efficiency from 27 per cent to 30 per cent is something that we welcome from Sweden and which is also proposed in the report. That is a step in the right direction. The EU also has the possibility of a higher rate of renewable energy expansion. Given the rapid development of renewable energy technologies, such as wind and solar energy, it is important that the analyses on which the proposals are based are updated. Since the targets were agreed at the European Council in 2014, there have been significant price changes. The cost of offshore wind power in 2014 was estimated in the analyses at SEK 1 – 2 per kilowatt hour. Today we see in various procurement systems in Denmark and Holland, for example, that the real cost is about 50 øre per kilowatt hour of offshore wind power. In just two years, therefore, technological developments have led to prices being more than halved. These calculations will, of course, lead to different conclusions from those drawn today. Therefore, it is very important that the analyses are updated and constantly follow the technology development. Sweden now has a target of 100 percent renewable energy that the parties in the Energy Commission are behind. The EU, too, needs to raise its level of ambition for renewable energy. Step by step, Europe is moving towards a fully renewable energy system. In order to achieve a higher share of renewable energy efficiently, it is important to increase interconnection between countries by building more electricity cables. Temporary variations in electricity generation or consumption can be evened out when a larger geographic network is interconnected. Simplified, you can say that it always blows somewhere. The EU has set a target of 10% interconnection of the electricity market by 2020, with a view to 15% by 2030. This should be seen in the light of the fact that Sweden is already connected to the rest of the world corresponding to approximately 30%. Sweden is thus far ahead, but in order for the transition to continue and more countries to leave dirty coal power, it is important that the EU works for an additional interconnection, with more electricity cables between our countries. Increased interconnection also provides a solution for those countries that are currently dependent on imports from individual countries, such as gas from Russia. This should be seen from Russia's plans to build Nord Stream 2. An increased share of renewable energy, energy efficiency measures and small-scale solutions combined with the interconnection of more countries' electricity systems are the way forward towards greater sustainability and reduced vulnerability. Sweden must be a driving force in the EU for a more ambitious climate and energy policy when there are countries that are stuck in coal power and old solutions. In order to achieve the objectives, governance is also needed. As the EU 2030 targets are binding on Member States only in the climate reduction part, governance is needed to achieve the common targets for the share of renewable energy and energy efficiency. However, it is now unclear how the EU can punish those countries that do not contribute to the objectives. It is now very important to clarify how the EU will ensure that the objectives are achieved. Madam President, I am very pleased that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has unanimously highlighted the importance of governance and governance in achieving the common objectives.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1029	Madam President, I would like This debate will be about the Commission's communication on clean energy for all. But I'm going to start by agreeing with Sofia Fölster from the Moderates. I also think it is great that we have interconnections in Europe so that we do not become dependent on Russian gas, for example. What I find sad is that you are not consistent. You say nothing about a nuclear facility that the Russians are building in Pyhäjoki, Finland, and which will have Russian uranium in it. The Russians will, so to speak, provide the service of the facility. It's quiet from the Moderates, but it's energy, too. When the Germans were about to phase out nuclear power, the Left Party brought up this coal thing. We wanted them to so called woolly phase it out too. No, why should we interfere in German energy policy? That's what we were told. And maybe there's a little bit of truth in that. Then why should we interfere when they want to buy Russian gas? I agree with Sofia Fölster that we should try to avoid imports and avoid this coming from other countries. But it is the same with the nuclear plant that the Russians are building in Pyhäjoki. The Russians drive the uranium there, but there it is silent from the Moderates. This was a speech that I had not planned, Madam President. When the Committee took note of the winter package in the form of a consultation with the government on the EU and its objectives for energy efficiency, I reported a different opinion on IMD, individual measurement and billing, which many have touched upon. The left-wing view is that the Commission goes beyond what is necessary in order to achieve the overall objectives of energy efficiency in buildings, which were the subject of this case. I have now seen that the government has backed up a little and made a text that I can approve. It feels very safe. But in general, I think that the European Union is interfering in a lot that they should not have any views on at all. Or excuse me – they can of course have views, but they should certainly not be able to decide on things that we master better and can handle better without them interfering in. Here, of course, I can highlight forestry policy as a clear example. It is a policy area from which they should definitely stay away. I am pleased that everyone agrees on the tours concerning the forest and biomass. I cannot ignore Ronny Eriksson's example of placing the thermostat in Brussels and then believing that the temperature is pleasant for everyone throughout the EU. It feels like you've missed something important. I shall, of course, address the things that I think are good about the work of the European Union, namely reducing emissions, energy efficiency and determining the share of renewables by means of common objectives and strategies. It will be natural when we increase relations between countries and hopefully have a functioning common energy market in the future. I am pleased that the Commission is giving priority to the Paris Agreement, and that is closely linked to the implementation of the 2030 framework for climate and energy. Here it would be appropriate to mention that the Left Party would have liked to have seen more ambitious demands on the EU countries. They could have tightened the bow further. Madam President, I would like As I have said earlier in my speech, there are, of course, limits to what the Left Party thinks. That is what the EU Member States have to decide jointly. Sometimes things get out of hand. There are clear examples of measures where Sweden can do this in a better and more cost-effective way without interference from the EU's bureaucratic thermostat. With this brief reflection, Madam President, I cannot but ask for the committee's proposal to add the opinion to the record.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1038	Madam President, I would like I would also like to support the committee's proposal to add the opinion to the file. The Commission's winter package is a large package with a lot of content. There is much about energy, and much is also welcome. We have already managed a great deal in Sweden because Sweden is a forerunner in tying not only our own energy system but also with other countries around us. We do not have a Swedish energy system, but we have a Nordic and soon even a Baltic energy system. Many of the proposals put forward by the Commission are about tying Europe together figuratively and literally with more cables between different countries. That's good. It will be good for consumers and the energy market, and it will enable us to use things more efficiently. It's gonna be cheaper. We can also compensate for the fact that more weather-dependent force increases the need to move power between different geographical locations. Then it is good that we do this work together. It is good that the Commission also wants to make tougher demands on energy efficiency. Of course we should use solutions that make the gadgets a little smarter and a little better. Even in the case of renewables, tougher targets should be set. As we have heard before, the cost development of wind power, solar panels, bioenergy and others has fallen dramatically in recent years. Then there is also the opportunity to put tougher demands than those that already exist. I hope that the discussions in the future will also show that we can raise the target for renewable energy and get a national burden-sharing with tougher demands so that something is also implemented. What is so good about the winter package is that it is able to raise the issue from just dealing with electricity to dealing with other things, including biofuels. Biofuels come from things that grow, such as the wood clump in the boiler or the rape diesel in the truck. There should of course be some kind of requirements. It's in the winter package. What is lacking, however, is to make the same demands on fossil fuels as on renewables. When renewables have to be traceable down to farm level, we only come to the nearest port when it comes to fossil fuels. It is quite unreasonable for us to make tougher demands on renewables than on fossils. We want to leave fossils. Then at least you have to make the same demands – preferably harder. The challenge is not to start fighting about what renewable energies we are going to use – electricity, biodiesel, biogas or anything else – but to take the fight against the fossil, against coal and against oil, and what we are going to compete out and actually benefit, at least make it worth while: renewable. That is the big challenge. Stop fighting internally with the renewable and take the fight against the fossil. There the Commission and Sweden need to step up. This is the most important message I have to deliver from the speaker's seat. We need the transition. It is good in Sweden because it provides jobs and entrepreneurship, and it also provides climate benefits. Then we must dare to take the fight against the fossil industry.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1048	Madam President, I would like I hear Rickard Nordin from the Center Party say that the renewable energy target should be higher than the 27% target currently in force. The question then arises why the Center Party chose to hook arms with the other bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats in 2014. A parliamentary majority including Rickard Nordin chose to lower the government's proposal for a 40% renewable energy target.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1049	Madam President, I would like I believe that Lise Nordin refers to the famous number bingon in the EU Council. We all know how clear it was. As far as we are concerned, it is clear that the calculations have improved. That is what Lise Nordin himself said in her speech. Then it is also reasonable to revise the targets. It's not harder than that.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1051	Madam President, I would like The government with the Social Democrats and the Green Party assessed in 2014 that there is good potential to have a higher target for the share of renewable energy. The Government submitted a proposal to the Riksdag for 40 per cent renewable energy. I note that it is unfortunate that Sweden joined countries that did not fight for a higher level. The Center Party and the Alliance together with the Swedish Democrats lowered the government, and Sweden's mandate became a lower level. Does Rickard Nordin mean that so much has happened with regard to renewable energy that the Center Party is now prepared to support a 40% renewable energy target?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1053	Madam President, I would like I believe that technological developments have progressed. Today there is a political mandate to raise the target. There are discussions taking place in Parliament. There are also openings at ministerial level to do so. Then, of course, we'll take our chances. It's not harder than that. It goes without saying that I am in favour of a higher renewable energy target. Lise Nordin and I agree in the Energy Commission that Sweden will move towards 100% renewable in Sweden. I do not see the conflict that Lise Nordin would like to paint. For me, it goes without saying that if the government can deliver such a goal in negotiations in Europe, I am the first to applaud.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1056	Madam President, I would like Turning to the debate on the CU8, that is to say, the report by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs on insolvency and enforcement law. We're going to take a stand on exercise from general exercise time. Often the motions are rejected, and they are not so interesting. However, this report contains, if not surprises, at least important and interesting questions.
i-Kt35tbxJ8Jo69kWDA7ocJR	The first announcement, proposed by the alliance parties supported by the Swedish Democrats, reads as follows: The government should urgently return to the Riksdag with legislative proposals that improve the possibilities for property owners to hand over in unauthorised settlements. The second announcement that we are presenting to the House is the following: the government should review the possibility of tightening up legislation against vehicle goaltenders. We'll see how disagree we are. I can imagine that it will land in the fact that the opposition wants to push this forward even faster than the government wants to do, at least as far as the vehicle goalkeepers are concerned. It remains to be seen in the debate itself. When it comes to proposals on how property owners' chances of getting hands-on in unauthorised settlements can be improved, there is currently a lack of opportunity for property owners to get this help. It has rightly been criticised. It is too difficult to get help to remove illegal settlements. The current regulatory framework is not designed to deal with these illegal settlements. They have been established throughout the country in recent years. In particular, legislation is poorly adapted to deal with larger illegal settlements. The capacity of property owners to handle their property needs to be improved through a simpler and, above all, less costly procedure. It'll be expensive if you're going to pay for everyone in an entire camp. A proposal has been made in Memorandum Unauthorised settlements, 2016:17, but no legislative proposal has yet been put on the table of the Riksdag. For this reason, a majority in the Civil Committee has requested that the Government urgently return to the Riksdag with a proposal for regulation. So the second announcement is about vehicle goalkeepers. In July 2014, legislative changes were made aimed, among other things, at combating the problems of vehicle goaltenders. The new rules have to some extent reduced the possibilities and profitability of using vehicle goaltenders. However, a majority in the committee believes that the legislative changes implemented are not sufficient to address the problems of vehicle goaltenders. The committee therefore considers it urgent that further action be taken. The government should review the possibility of tightening up the legislation. A majority would like to announce this to the government. We now come to a reservation – the reservation of the four alliance parties No. 2. I commend it, Madam President. It's about deleveraging. A very important issue is to shorten the overall period of over-indebtedness of debtors so that they can become economically rehabilitated and return to a more normal social life as quickly as possible. It is better to be relieved of debt quickly than to be offered time-free periods during debt restructuring. Furthermore, the regulatory framework for debt restructuring should be fair and predictable. Against this background, we believe that, as a general rule, the payment plan should be set at three years instead of, as now, five years. In addition, there is no reason to allow two months per year to be free of payment. According to the reservation, the Government should therefore return to the Riksdag with legislative proposals that mean that the payment plan for debt restructuring for individuals should, as a general rule, be set at three years without any payment-free months. So this is a reservation from the Alliance. There is also a reservation from the Christian Democrats, reservation No 9, to which I call for approval. It is about measures against over-indebtedness. It is related to the previous reservation, but here it is a limitation period. The group in society that suffers most is those who have lived for decades under the threat of the recovery of each crown they can earn beyond the minimum of existence. The indebted and their relatives live a stressful and circumcised life year after year. They often lack the energy and ability to carry out the total deleveraging that would be most helpful to them. The result is often that they find themselves in an increasingly impossible situation. They have less and less hope of ever getting out of the situation. In order to limit this life sentence that the most vulnerable group actually lives under and increase the possibility of being debt-free in the long term, the report on over-indebtedness in the credit society proposed the study on over-indebtedness? , SOU 2013:78, that final limitation shall take place after more than 15 years for claims established by the Swedish Enforcement Authority or in court. The Christian Democrats believe that the conclusions of the inquiry on a final limitation period should be considered for legislation. The government should therefore initiate legislation on final limitation periods. This should be supported and announced to the Government by the Riksdag.
i-E7D8oBeW71XssrpAARYLQj	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 1. When you end up in a crisis in life, when you become unemployed or when you divorce, you are more likely to get into payment difficulties. The risk of debt and not having the ability to repay is much greater. You risk being over-indebted. Over-indebtedness is a major problem for the individual but also for society. Nearly 100,000 people have been in the register of the Crown Court for over 20 years. In addition to the limitation of personal freedom resulting from debt, the health of himself and his family is at risk. Children are a particularly vulnerable group, which is often severely affected when parents are in difficulty in paying. It is therefore extremely important that we have a clear children's perspective on these issues. The children's perspective is something that the government has also taken on board in the work to combat over-indebtedness, for example in the strategy against over-indebtedness, in the new debt restructuring act and in the directives for the Enforcement Investigation. The conditions for making payments as a single parent or unemployed person also depend on our compensation systems, such as unemployment insurance or maintenance support, being at a good level. The government has increased these, and together with support for families with children through, for example, eyeglass allowances and free medicines, we have created a greater opportunity for families with less resources to manage their everyday lives without having to take a quick loan if there are crises. The government takes the debt problem very seriously and, as a guiding principle, there is a comprehensive strategy against over-indebtedness. The strategy includes measures to prevent individuals from falling into economic problems and to help those who have experienced debt problems improve their economic situation. The strategy is not a shelf heater, but it has resulted in a variety of measures aimed at reducing long-term indebtedness. From 1 November last year, new rules on debt restructuring have made it easier for people to apply for debt restructuring. A special debt restructuring procedure for entrepreneurs was also instituted by the Riksdag at the same time. At the same time, the obligation for municipalities to provide budget and debt counselling was clarified. Quick loans are, and have been for a long time, a fairly straight path into debt for many people. The study on some consumer credit has made a series of sharp proposals to reduce debt due to quick loans. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Consumer Agency to draw up recommendations for the municipal budget and debt counselling. At the same time, better tools and training have been developed for budget and debt advisors in municipalities. The enforcement officer is also working to improve the management of debts to the public together with the relevant authorities. Over-indebtedness has serious consequences, and in its wake there are great costs to society and great suffering to the individual. Therefore, we need to be alert to new phenomena in society that risk putting people into debt, and constantly making new considerations. We Social Democrats believe that this issue is so important that, of course, we are willing to make new considerations if it turns out that our current efforts are not producing results. Madam President, I would like I would now like to move on to talk a little about removal or illegal settlements. If the Riksdag follows the committee's proposal in tomorrow's vote, the Riksdag will make it known to the Government that it should return with legislative proposals that improve property owners' possibilities for special assistance in unauthorised settlements. It is an announcement that seems a little strange to me, and I would now like to explain why I think it is strange. On 10 January this year, the Government reported on the proposals it intends to present in spring 2017. On 12 January, the committee dealt with the motions that are being discussed today in the report and what we are debating today. Even then, the committee knew that the government intends to submit a bill to the Riksdag on the removal of unauthorised settlements by 21 March. What purpose, then, is it to say to the same government that it should urgently return to Parliament with proposals that the same government has already announced to leave? The date for the debate on the bill is 17 May in Parliament's planning, so I do not think there is much point in debating this today. But in general, the proposal, which the government decided on Thursday to send to the Law Council, will simplify for landowners to have an unauthorised settlement removed from their land. The costs of the individual shall be reduced. Today's legislation is not adapted to current problems. The main obstacles to these cases will be reduced by the Government's proposals, while taking account of the persons to be removed and their situation. Madam President, I would like I have a much greater understanding of the report's second announcement. There are problems with vehicle goaltenders even after the legislative changes made in July 2014. In the debate on the introduction of new rules, the Socialist Group proposed that people with large-scale vehicle-related debts should be refused registration as vehicle owners. It was also a proposal that was considered before the legislation, but the government considered the risks of such legislation to be large and small. The Parliament then followed the committee and rejected that proposal. My fellow party members who were then sitting in Parliament proposed more far-reaching legislation, and I am prepared to agree that more should be done to make the use of vehicle goaltenders more difficult. We are open to further regulation and are pleased that even bourgeois parties are now willing to make new considerations. At the same time, we should not run too fast. We have been waiting for the effects of the law, and now the Swedish Enforcement Authority states that the vehicle debts have been slowed down. Only looking at the sum of the vehicle-related liabilities can be misleading, as the new law only applies to debts arising after July 2014. It is important that a follow-up is made of the effects of regulatory changes, how they are used and how to improve compliance with the law. The government states that it is following developments, has dialogue with the relevant authorities and is in favour of looking at the issue. Therefore, I do not think that we need any announcement in this area either.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1087	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Johanna Haraldsson for the courtesy that I suspected would come. As a representative of the opposition, as it may well be here, even if it is a majority, I would say that we could certainly have found each other in a joint position to advance towards the government. It will be a little difficult not to vote for these two announcements and at the same time to like the direction, but I understand and respect that the government has its role and the government parties and the opposition are pushing on. But I think there could have been room for us, as in other contexts, to find a consensus also that we want this together. There was another point I wanted to make, and that was the difference between three and five years in terms of the debt adjustment payment plan. I would very much like to know how the government parties stand on the question of why it cannot be three years that the alliance parties want. What makes it so important to hold on to five years instead of seeing that these people could be freed from their guilt in three years? I wonder if Johanna Haraldsson could help us understand that.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1089	Madam President, I would like As far as payment time is concerned, we have the legislation on debt restructuring. We decided on this last year and it has been in force for four months. As of 1 November, we have new debt restructuring rules that will make it easier for people to apply for and get debt restructuring. There is also a great deal of opportunity for people to have a shorter payment period with regard to, for example, family relationships. For us, the issue of non-payment months is very important. At the same time as Tuve Skånberg raises the question of final limitation in his speech on the grounds that many eternal debtors have neither the energy nor the ability to carry out a debt restructuring, he wants to remove from his party the non-payment months, which I believe for many is a necessary breathing space in order to get through debt restructuring. I think that the Christian Democrats are a bit contradictory. The combination of a simpler application procedure and non-payment months are measures that will get more people to seek and actually get through debt restructuring. During these four months we have not been able to see whether things have turned out well or bad after that change. We are still insisting that the legislation that exists now should be allowed to be. Then, if necessary, new considerations may be made later.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1092	Madam President, I would like I did not hear any argument that it would be important to have just five years, with or without payment-free months. What we are going through is three years, which we think could be reasonable to help these people out. Would Johanna Haraldsson want to develop why five years is so important? Why not meet us and say three years and help these people out of a very difficult situation?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1094	Madam President, I would like I do not think anyone can doubt that we are taking the problem of debt seriously and, of course, we are willing to make new considerations if we see that the measures we have already taken do not deliver the results that we want. But there is also in the Alliance's motion that we want to remove the months of non-payment, and they are extremely important. I am absolutely convinced of that. That's why it's so important. Five years is not a fact for everyone applying for debt adjustment, but you may very well get a shorter debt adjustment period if you have reason for it. As I said, this legislation has been in force for four months. I do not think we can say now whether it has been successful or not. We can do that later, however, and then we are no stranger to making new considerations. But as I said, it is not in fact five years that apply to all applicants for debt adjustment. I think that is important to point out.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1097	Madam President, I would like I intended to begin with a time-winning motion for the approval of reservation 2 and reservation 3 in this report. I would like to dwell a little on the issue of vehicle goaltenders, which is a major social problem. It is fascinating to listen to the Social Democrats in this debate. You go up here in the pulpit proclaiming that you advocated something at a party congress and you advocated something when you were in opposition, but now that you are in a position of government you don't want to do anything about it. What is said in the reservation you have against the majority of committees is: yes, we can follow the question, but mainly the current legislation works well and is quite sufficient. The problem is that current legislation is not fully adequate. It is quite right that it was the Alliance Government that came forward with this legislation. The ambitions were good, but in practice the legislation has not been sufficient. Then you have to dare go further if you really want to solve the social problem. Today we have a situation where up to 15 000 vehicles are rolling only in Malmö, which is registered with vehicle goalkeepers. It is therefore vehicles for which taxes are not paid, which are often not inspected, where the actual users of these vehicles can cheat with subsidies and so on. How can we accept such a system, Madam President? As much as 3 000 vehicles are registered on a natural person in Sweden, and 151 people have more than 100 vehicles registered on them. The number of car collectors in that group is likely to be disappearing little. So we are talking about people who act as vehicle goalkeepers and who have debts to the public of hundreds of millions. How can we accept that it looks like that? Today, one committee majority says that the government must do something about this. We need to bring back effective legislation that addresses the problem. To help the government, I'll try to point out the main features of what needs to be done. To begin with, the government must stop the influx of new vehicle goalkeepers. The government must ask itself: Is it really reasonable to register as the owner of any number of vehicles? Is it reasonable to own 3 000 vehicles without a single authority asking a single supplementary question? Would it not be appropriate to introduce, for example, vandelstökning, that the Swedish Transport Agency asks why a sixth car is needed if you are already the registered owner of five cars? If you can tell me why you need it so But maybe there should be a control mechanism. Then the government must ensure that we have an effective hand-hold, an effective fight against this. It turns out that neither the police nor the Enforcement Authority are capable of doing this. Who can really blame them when the social order looks as it does today? Municipalities should be given clearer tools to start working on the problem. A large part of the problem with today's legislation is that these cars are not worth anything; therefore it is not profitable for the public to collect them, because you simply do not get cover for their costs. That is at the heart of today's legislation. That is why it has not worked very well. The Swedish Transport Agency, that is, the authority that has the information about who owns a vehicle, has been anything but helpful to the municipalities that try to work with this. Perhaps the government should give Transportstyrelsen a special mission to be better at providing municipalities with those tasks so that they can start working on the problem. This is symptomatic of the government we have. You're not prepared to admit your grave social problems. Why cannot one admit that the problem exists and be prepared to work on it? It brings me back to what Johanna Haraldsson began the debate by saying: that it is strange that a majority of Parliament is going forward with proposals for another announcement, namely about the possibility of removing illegal settlements. The essence of our proposal for an announcement is that it will increase the opportunities for property owners. The proposal that the government is now making does not increase the opportunities. It still requires identification. It is thus stated in the proposed legislative text that reasonable measures should have been taken to identify. How can you do that when you are threatened by attempts at confrontation in unauthorised settlements? In practice, this will develop into a requirement. The government is putting forward legislation that will be very similar to that currently in force and which does not in reality simplify the situation for landowners who are drawn up camps for berry pickers or caravan camps on private property. Madam President, I would like It is an unreasonable procedure.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1112	Madam President, I would like Why does the government not protect ownership over foreigners' illegal settlements? Towns or so-called illegal settlements are now quite common in our country. Often it is people who, under international conventions and agreements within the EU, are hardly really entitled to reside in the country. It is said that one should have one's livelihood secured in an honest way. It is hardly an honest way to settle on another's land without even having asked or intended to pay for it. We Swedish democrats see it as totally unreasonable for someone who has never had the right to settle on another's land to have the right of possession in this way, and then the landowner will suddenly pay for deportation, restoration of the land and clean-up. At the same time, the people who, according to us, have occupied the land in a most dishonest way are released to occupy someone else's land. Of course, those who do not have the right to reside in Sweden and who do not have the opportunity to make a living in an honest way should also be displaced outside the country's borders. Although a proposal has recently been sent for a referral to the Law Council and even if the minister responsible, Morgan Johansson, says that it will be easier to intervene against shantytowns, I am still sceptical from what I have read. Despite new rules, it is still the affected landowner who will pay. In addition, there is talk of a balance of interests. What do you mean, a balance of interests? Is it a balancing of interests between the landowner's interest in using his own land and the one who illegally and dishonestly took the right to use the land? That's what you do. It becomes clear that the government does not place ownership very high. No matter who has taken the right to steal the land, it should be returned to the owner as soon as possible. I can understand that special consideration should be given to whether there are children among those who settle illegally on the ground. But I and the government come to completely different conclusions. The government suggests that it will take longer before the camp is demolished if there are children there. I believe that the matter should be speeded up and intervene as soon as possible if there are children in the picture. The Swedish Democrats do not think it is appropriate for children to grow up in shantytowns in Sweden. The government still has a lot to solve before we will be satisfied. How will landowners go unharmed when they are affected by shantytowns being built on their property? When will the costs of landowners be removed? How do you solve the clean-up and restoration of the land? How is the landowner compensated for loss of revenue as a result of non-use of the land? There are many questions and I can't really find answers in the government's new proposal. According to it, it is still the landowner who will pay for the government's cowardice. It is still the landowner who has to restore the land, and it is the landowner who suffers the loss of income – although the landowner does not have to be a very strong party at all. The landowner may well be a poor pensioner or a person who has large loans on his land and is now risking even more expenses, without being able to influence them. I return to the question I began with: why does the government not protect ownership over foreigners' illegal settlements? One might wonder if there are no Swedes in these shantytowns. I'm sure there's somewhere. In March 2015, Swedish homeless people in Malmö made an attempt to build their own settlement. However, it took only a few days before they were driven away by the police and the municipal loading machines had cleared the area. Suddenly, society was working again. It is interesting that some of the changes that Morgan Johansson has recently sent for a referral to the Swedish Law Council were in effect in Malmö in 2015. Of course, it was about Swedes who broke the rules. One might wonder why a private landowner should not have the same opportunity to intervene as the City of Malmö. Why isn't one call to the police enough? When will there be a bill that really solves the problems? Madam President, I would like The report also deals with the issue of car goalkeepers. We Swedish democrats think it is important that Sweden has well-functioning rules and laws. The whole of Sweden as the rule of law is based on that people are basically honest and want to comply with laws and rules. Unfortunately, the reality is sometimes different. Unfortunately, there are individuals in our society who choose to take advantage of the Swedish gullible attitude and the regulations we have set up. Individuals who don't have much to lose let others put cars on them, and then the cars are used without paying charges and often even in criminal contexts. Although the law has been tightened up, it is hardly enough, as the problems are far from gone. More opportunities to intervene are needed here. The fact that a car is parked correctly can hardly be a reason not to interfere. It should also be possible to prevent people who are known to be using the system from continuing to put cars on their own. Ownership is central to us, but when it comes to car targets, it is hardly the case that these people actually own, use and have paid for all the vehicles registered on them. Then it is no longer a question of ownership, but of using the system to escape costs or for criminal activities. Such action shall be open to the authorities. It is a little strange that the government parties are concerned that property rights are threatened if the law is tightened up for vehicle goaltenders. The same parties who think that those who have their land occupied by a shanty town should pay to get the land back, should pay to clean up the land and also should not be entitled to compensation for the time that the land has been impossible to use thus think that it is an enormous interference in ownership if a person with lots of cars written on him and lots of debts are not allowed to own another car or risk getting rid of a properly parked car. I commend our reservation, No. 7.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1130	Madam President, I would like I am proud of the new debt restructuring act that the Parliament put through last year. It is legislation aimed at making it easier for the individual to cope with debt restructuring. Or as the Enforcement Authority itself describes it: The application will be easier. There will be no need for such detailed information on the debts. The bailiffs and creditors are given greater responsibility for this. It will also be possible to apply electronically via a new e-application. The deleveraging period starts at the start of the debt restructuring process rather than at the time of the deleveraging decision, and two non-payment months are introduced, June and December. It is opened for less than five years if there are significant reasons, for example if there are children in the household. There is more opportunity for a second chance. So it should be possible to get debt adjustment more than once. Allow me to refer to the two months of non-payment as they have come up in the debate earlier. I'm proud that we've introduced them. They give parents an opportunity to give their children a summer and a Christmas that is a bit more like the classmates. That's good. Not enough of that. I am also proud that the government has developed a strategy against over-indebtedness. Since a large number of people today have a great deal of financial problems, because many do not have an economic buffer for unforeseen events and because about 400 000 people are in the register of the bailiff, I am proud that the government takes this seriously. The aim of the strategy is, on the one hand, to combat the economic problems of individuals and, on the other hand, to help those who have had problems with debts to get out of that situation. In conclusion, the strategy aims to increase consumer and private economic knowledge, to achieve more responsible lending, to improve debt management for the general public, to contribute to active and effective support for the debtors, to achieve a debt restructuring process that is also achieved and used by the most indebted, and to pay particular attention to children and young people. I would urge that all the reservations contained in the report be rejected, including those relating to over-indebtedness and deleveraging. As far as the two declarations contained in the report are concerned, like previous speakers, I note that we have a problematic situation with regard to vehicle goaltenders. I am not sure, however, that it is only one piece of legislation that is needed. There are indications that it is rather compliance with the law that needs to be reviewed. There were certainly reasons why the previous government chose not to go ahead with all the proposals when it implemented the legislative amendment that was put on the table of the Riksdag. However, as previous speakers have said, perhaps we are in a situation where we need to do so. We will have to come back to the matter. With regard to the announcement of improved opportunities for property owners to hand over, I do not understand what an announcement should serve. The product is already on its way, as is well known. So, in order to put working time on the right things at the right time, I would ask you to come back to this issue when we are discussing the law of the government. It will probably be May 17th, according to our joint planning. Having said that, I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1145	Madam President, I would like I have a simple question for Emma Hult. If you observe the problem of vehicle goalkeepers and think it is a problem that an estimated 15 000 vehicles travel around Malmö without being inspected and taxed and without being owned by the car user as if he were the owner, why do you not want to do anything about the legislation that obviously does not work fully?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1146	Madam President, I would like I think that in our speeches both me and Johanna Haraldsson did not close the door to do something forward. We have both said that this is problematic and that perhaps something needs to be reviewed. I think you draw a little too many conclusions from what you say, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin. So did you in your speech. If you had listened to what Johanna Haraldsson said, you would probably not have said as you said in your speech.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1148	Madam President, I would like I have read your reservation in the report, Emma Hult. I don't know if Emma Hult did it herself. You can't have the cake and eat it. You de facto reserve the right to tighten up the legislation. That is what you will vote for here tomorrow. You cannot say anything in the speaker's chair and then vote the other day. Either you are in favour of tightening up the legislation, and then you cannot reserve your rights. Or you are not in favour of tightening up the legislation, and then I would like an answer as to why. So the question I am asking is: why do you not want to tighten up the legislation?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1151	Madam President, I would like I guess I'll have to repeat my answer. I have not said that I do not want to tighten up the legislation. Nor have I said that I should tighten up the legislation. Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin should know that you are in a government party, it is not through announcements from the Riksdag that you change the legislation.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1153	Madam President, I would like I am just as curious about how Emma Hult explains the differences between three years and five years as when I asked Johanna Haraldsson. I note that Emma Hult is very proud of the two months of non-payment, because that means that the government parties really want these people well and want to facilitate their situation so that they get out of it quickly. But if I count correctly, five years with two months free of payment will total 50 months while three years without two months free of payment will be 36 months. There is a difference of 14 months in favour of the alliance parties. How on earth can you be proud that they get 14 months more with you, Emma Hult?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1157	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, the months of non-payment are during periods when, for example, parents with children may need their compensation and money in order to celebrate Christmas like friends at school or, for that matter, be able to celebrate vacations. That is why I am proud of two months without payment. During these months, parents should be able to know that there is a financial space so that children do not feel that they are unable to do what their schoolmates do.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1158	Madam President, I would like There is an expression called comfort for tiger hearts. This is exactly what Emma Hult and Johanna Haraldsson want to hand these people over and say: You don't have two months – be happy then, and think about the vacation! But normally they get an extra 14 months. I find it very difficult to see that it is particularly generous or accommodating or that it helps them. At least two months is something. But why not try out what the alliance parties are doing? Three years without – that's 14 months less.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1160	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, it is not five years for everyone. It is possible, for example, for those who have children, to have a shorter payment period. They also receive two months free of payment per year, which means a shorter payment period and months free of payment, and I am proud of that.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1161	Madam President, I would like I did not have the opportunity to take a line on the Social Democrats, but I am sure this will work just as well. I wonder how the Green Party, together with the government, really sees ownership and that the landowners should bear all the costs. Even in what has now been sent to the Law Council and which soon comes up as a bill, it is still the landowners who will have to take the costs of illegal settlements. These are costs of clean-up, hands-on and loss of income. It is not even mentioned that it would be possible for them to receive compensation unless they are so fortunate that the settler suddenly has large resources. But it's unlikely. How does Emma Hult feel about the landowners still being charged all these costs?
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1165	Madam President, I would like I would like to start at the end of what Mikael Eskilandersson said in his speech. He spoke of these people as if he did not think they were worth as much as everyone else. I'm glad you took the line, Mikael Eskilandersson, because this is something I want to say: No matter which country you were born in, in my opinion, you're just as much worth. It is not that people who choose to come to Sweden and settle here illegally, as you said, do it because they want to. They do it because they have no choice. As far as compensation is concerned, these will be regulated in the Regulation. The government will come back with that.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1168	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that these people obviously have the same human dignity as others. But the fact that everyone has the same human dignity does not mean that all people have the right to come to Sweden and settle on a certain plot of land or even in our country. There is a certain difference between people's value and their right to live in Sweden. Perhaps that is where our political differences are greatest. I have a supplementary question to what I started to say earlier. So you did not have an answer to the costs, but how do you see the problem just moving around? Nor has the government resolved this in what has been sent as a legislative referral. What you do in practice is send the police to move people away from one place, and then they settle in another. That's not a solution to the problem. It would at least be a solution for Sweden to move these people out of the country if they do not have the right to stay here. If they have the right to reside in the country, social assistance shall be involved. This would be the most reasonable way to act, especially in view of the fact that support measures are being put in place via the European Union in the countries of origin of these people. It does not work that you put such measures in there if they then stay in Sweden on a field somewhere out in the dung and live in a settlement. It's very bad to live like that, and I don't understand how you want to defend them to stay that way.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1172	Madam President, I would like I'm not defending people living that way. It's absolutely nothing to me. I hope and want of course that we will be able to solve it with a housing situation that is good for everyone who wants to live in Sweden. Mikael says that not all people have the right to live in Sweden. If people want and have the opportunity to live in Sweden and hopefully can get a job here, I hope that it will also happen in the long run, that we can look at these people as we see all people and that they can get a job. I hope so. More is being built today than it has been in a very long time. I hope that we will be able to create apartments for all groups. You mentioned Social Services, Mikael Eskilandersson. Yes, if you have read the referral, you know that social services will be involved. It's not that we want to put people on the street when something happens. However, as I said in my speech, I hope that we can take this debate when we have a legislative proposal to debate.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1176	Madam President, I would like The debate is about how citizens can get rid of debt in a simpler way and how these debts can be recovered, what rights they have when it comes to using another person's land or property and what rights landowners have to prevent it. These are illegal settlements and vehicle-related debts. In two cases, a majority here in Parliament wants to speed up and perhaps even go further than the government wants. In both cases, there are two sides to the matter – a creditor who we think should have the right on his side and someone who has a debt and who is expected to do the same. Simple or not so simple– it depends on which side of the thing you look at it from. As we forgive those who trespass against us, so are the words that come to me. Because there's a difference between camping youths – if there are still – who celebrate with food and drink, noise, pigs down a little bit and then leave and people who, without either possessions or solid income, settle somewhere near a place where they can earn a few bucks. We see them every day. We know very little about their lives and rarely notice their settlements, although we know they exist, unless there is a settlement on our own land – then we notice them very much. They're begging or doing bad work, because you don't pick berries to eat them yourself. There is always a reason why such situations arise, and that should be included in the debate, I think. All parties agree that it must be simpler and cheaper for those who want such settlements removed to be supported by the law and its extended arm – the police – so that the act itself is carried out. That goes without saying, and it should have been fixed a long time ago. We solve the problem at the site of the landowner, but deep down we know that we do not solve the problem of poverty, either by doing so or, for that matter, by being able to more easily foreclose vehicles owned by the so-called car goalkeepers. We make it possible for many people to clean up their finances and start over with faster debt restructuring, although the reasons for indebtedness we can access in other ways, hopefully. Mr President, I would like to Tonight, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has the ungrateful task of cleaning up and keeping clean, and of getting people back on their feet, preferably without further aggravating for the most vulnerable. At the same time, ownership shall be maintained and restored in such a way that the supplier of goods or services or, for that matter, his land may be remunerated or freely dispose of his or her property and land. Then it is much more inspiring for me to stand and talk about how, with the help of a better functioning housing market with new settlements, we give people the opportunity to restart or restart their lives. Rather than settlements, one might say. Better pay, even if it's low, than wage foreclosure. I am not saying that this is easy, but I am saying that this is difficult. Because deep down inside my chest, the humanist's heart claps. At the same time, we are raised in the notion that all that is mine is mine, and what is yours must you, someone else, society or the police take care of. I welcome the fact that the government is now taking action on this issue and ensuring that it responds better to the needs we see of being able to evict those who are illegally residing on land, without requiring the identification of each of those who are present in this place, and that it can be done at a reasonable cost to the landowner. The last thing we want is for people to take the law into their own hands, so that we have other criminal acts carried out to order by those who believe that they have the right on their side. The fact that there is a parliamentary decision underlining that this must go quickly, and you can hardly be against it on the government side. But you still have reservations. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in paragraph 1, where there are also motions from the Center Party. While I am still moving here on the shadow side of society, I would like to point out how important it is to address the problem of vehicle goalkeepers as far as possible. According to the bailiff, in 2013 there were about 100,000 people who together covered the amount of SEK 1.8 billion. Carl ‐ Oskar Bohlin had more recent figures. With a new law that makes it possible to seize these cars, it is possible to recover some of the claims in the form of parking tickets, congestion charges and vehicle tax. It is rarely the case that the owner is the person who uses the car. Sometimes it has value, but quite often it doesn't. As far as I understand it, this is what we want to get at when we from the Alliance with the Center Party want to tighten up the legislation further if possible, if only as a way to get to these professional criteria and ensure that fewer parked cars are set on fire or take up space and defile the neighbourhood. I support the committee's proposal in paragraph 8. Madam President, I would like We have previously debated and decided on a new debt restructuring act. There is no reason for me to argue further on the matter. But I think it's good that the person who has fallen into debt more easily and with the support of society should be able to make themselves debt-free and restart. We regret that the government parties think it is more important to have two months of non-payment per year than that it should be quick. I therefore support the bourgeois parties' reservation 2 in paragraph 2. One should normally be able to become debt-free after three years and not have to pay off one's debt for five years, almost two terms of office – think for so long. It is considerably longer than the time it takes to get rid of the current government. I don't have any more requests. I could have stressed how important it is for the Center Party that entrepreneurs should also have a second chance to get debt restructuring and be able to restart their business. It is still an important issue for us, and we have committee movements where further action is needed. We have been involved with the previous government in laying the foundations of an investigation work with the so-called new investigation, and since 2016 we have something called F debt restructuring. I do not think that is enough for entrepreneurs to be free of debt and restart. But let us evaluate this result. I would ask you to come back with more proposals that simplify the way for entrepreneurs – the job creators.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1195	Madam President, I would like I would like to concentrate my speech on our reservation 8. Over-indebtedness is a disaster for those affected, and especially for those who are stuck in the debt trap for a long time. The main cause of over-indebtedness is personal tragedies such as unemployment, illness, divorce and bankruptcy. In addition to major consequences for the individual, studies have shown that society's costs of over-indebtedness can be as high as SEK 30 – 50 billion. Research has also shown that over-indebted people suffer more from ill health, suicidal thoughts, anxiety, depression and addiction than others. It is mainly households that lack economic margins that fall into the debt trap. Over-indebtedness is a clear class issue. The unemployed, the sick, the low-income, the single and the low-skilled are over-represented among the over-indebted. It can be noted that the previous government's sharp deterioration in sickness and unemployment insurance is likely to have contributed to an increase in over-indebtedness. Health and unemployment insurance is intended precisely to allow for a transition period without destroying the household's finances. It is therefore gratifying that the present government, in cooperation with the Left Party, has begun to restore these important assurances. The strategy adopted by the government in September 2015 to counter over-indebtedness contains several important measures and proposals. The new debt restructuring act also makes it easier for debtors to apply for and obtain debt restructuring, although we in the Left Party would rather have seen a shorter payment period of three years instead of five years, and which also includes two non-payment months. Madam President, I would like The measures taken so far by the government are important and good steps in the right direction, but more needs to be done. Strengthening prevention is a cornerstone of efforts to prevent more people from falling into over-indebtedness. In this work, municipal budget and debt counselling services play a central and crucial role. It is therefore important that the municipalities of the country provide good budget and debt counselling with good accessibility and high quality. It is particularly important to increase information and education efforts to reach children and young adults. There are already educational material in private finance aimed at secondary and secondary schools that have been developed by the Swedish Consumer Agency, among others. Targeted efforts also need to be made towards groups that are particularly vulnerable because they have not learned the Swedish language well enough or because they have other difficulties in accessing information, such as new arrivals and people with disabilities. Civil society and its organisations could also make important contributions in the field of prevention. The economic language is too many difficult and incomprehensible. A broad public education effort is needed to better prevent people from falling into severe debt. A well-functioning consumer guidance service in municipalities also helps to prevent over-indebtedness. With good knowledge of what applies to the consumer market and each individual can turn to support and help, we can strengthen the power and influence of consumers in society. A worrying trend is therefore that more and more municipalities choose to close their consumer guidance. Eleven municipalities closed their consumer guidance last year. This means that 780 000 Swedes are now completely lacking municipal consumer guidance. According to the Swedish Consumer Agency, this is a record low level. Against this background, it is important that we address this issue and legislate for mandatory consumer guidance in all municipalities. Today, 400 000 – 600 000 people are counted as over-indebted in Sweden. Some 95 000 of them have been in debt for over 20 years. In the investigation Over-indebtedness in the credit community? it was proposed to introduce a final limitation period for debts, corresponding to the system in place in Finland, of 15 or 20 years. For those over-indebted without the hope of ever coming out of a debt spiral, which means that each extra-earned crown should be measured out, a final limitation period would have a major impact on the possibility of rehabilitation and restarting. A prescription could put an end to an accelerating and increasingly impossible situation. Of course, debt restructuring is preferable. But in cases where it is not possible, a final prescription is important. Final limitation must therefore be seen as a complement to the possibility of debt restructuring. A final limitation period would ensure that those who have lived with government coercive measures against them for many years should at least be guaranteed that the situation is not constantly getting worse, but can eventually actually move in the right direction. One group that is particularly affected by over-indebtedness is children. In previous investigations, the Ombudsman for Children has criticised the fact that children's rights have not been sufficiently highlighted. The Government's strategy and the new debt restructuring act certainly take special account of families with children. However, I still call for a better overall approach to how children suffer from over-indebtedness. In a 2013 report, the National Board of Health and Welfare describes that children growing up in over-indebted families are severely affected by a very vulnerable financial situation. It is believed that the living conditions of these families are likely to be among the worse in society. Children often feel that they have to familiarize themselves very early with the family's financial situation, which can cause school and leisure time to suffer. Some children also say that they feel left out in school as well as in their leisure time because they cannot participate in various activities. Many children in over-indebted families are at risk of living in a difficult economic situation throughout their childhood, and this leaves a clear mark. There is currently too little research on how children suffer from over-indebtedness, and it is therefore important to carry out a specific child impact assessment for children and young people living in families with over-indebtedness. With this in mind, I would like to endorse our reservation No 8 and the joint reservations Nos 1 and 11 on illegal settlements and vehicle goaltenders.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1213	Madam President, I would like I have tormented a couple of colleagues here with questions about these five and three years, and I must probably ask Lotta Johnsson Fornarve how this goes together. What you prefer is three years and two months free of payment, which is why you vote in five years and two months free of payment – rather than voting with the Alliance, who wants three years without those two months free of refund. After all, the Left Party is happy to give us the impression that it really wants to help those who are the most deprived and the most difficult. I cannot follow Lotta Johnsson Fornarve's thought when she writes in her special statement that precisely because you really want to help people, you go with the government and make sure that it is five years.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1215	Madam President, I would like I mean, we in the Committee on Civil Liberties are quite close on this issue overall. We all want to help those who are over-indebted and have major problems. We would prefer to have three years, but we want to keep the two months free of payment. I told you this in my speech. It may seem a little too generous, but we still think it is important because many of those over-indebted have been living in over-indebtedness for a very long time – for years before they come to debt restructuring. We still believe that the two months of non-payment are very important for people to have some breathing space. This is particularly important for families with children.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1217	Madam President, I would like Well, I don't think anyone thinks the Left Party is too generous. The Left Party will vote for five years with two months free of payment, so Lotta Johnsson Fornarve does not actually run the risk that the Left Party will end up in some sort of class alone where you are more generous than everyone else. She supports the government, although she says she would rather have three months. She doesn't care to press for it. In the case of five years of two pay-as-you-go months, it is under 50 months that these vulnerable people have to pay. If it's three years without payment-free months, it's 36 months. If you also remove the extra – what Lotta Johnsson Fornarve wants – it's about 30 months. Instead of choosing 30 months, Lo tta Johnsson Fornarve chooses 50 months. That doesn't make any sense!
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1219	Madam President, I would like I could return the question: why do you not want to meet us with three years and two months without payment, Tuve Skånberg? Perhaps we would have been able to agree on this. I hope that we can continue this debate and discussion and eventually find a solution.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1220	( THIRD VICE TALMANN: It may be considered a rhetorical question when Tuve Skånberg is not entitled to a further reply. )
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1221	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 2 on debt restructuring. For time-winning, the Liberals do not want to accept their other reservations, which relate to pay-as-you-go and debt counselling, even though we obviously wholeheartedly support them as well. Liberals are proud to be able to vote through two announcements – a liberal motion on vehicle goaltenders and an alliance motion on the hands-on of unauthorised settlements. We Liberals are pursuing an offensive policy of countering over-indebtedness and giving eternal debtors an opportunity to come back and do the right thing. Today, I will focus in particular on three issues: vehicle goaltenders, handing over illegal settlements and debt restructuring. The first point I'm going to raise is vehicle goaltenders. We in the Liberals believe that the 20 legislative changes made by the Alliance to deal with the so-called vehicle goalkeepers have been good, but not good enough. The number of car goalkeepers has not decreased in Sweden. The reasons for this include that many cars are in such bad condition that they are not foreclosed and that municipalities are not allowed to move cars that are properly parked, even if they are owned by car keepers. It is clear that legislation against car targets needs to be tightened up within the framework of property protection under the European Convention. From the Liberals' side, we believe that one possibility that needs to be tested is an increase in the powers of municipalities to move car keepers' vehicles even if they are properly parked. It may also require legislative changes to strengthen cooperation between the municipalities and the Kronofogdemyndigheten. From the Liberals' side, we also believe that it should be considered whether a person with 40 vehicle-related debts, for example, should even be able to be approved as a registered owner of new vehicles before the old debts have been paid. Just as the Moderates pointed out here, it is unreasonable that you can own as many cars as you like – all in debt – when in practice you don't own them for real and have taken the blame for others. The second point concerns illegal settlements. With regard to the handing over of illegal settlements, we in the Liberals believe that it is too costly today for property owners to get a hand-hold, for example in the case of 15 people who have illegally settled on their land. When applying for handrails today a fee of SEK 300 is required, and in connection with the eviction you have to pay SEK 600 per person evicted. You also have to identify each and every one of the people. Of course, the applicant has the right to receive his or her funds back and can apply for them, but in most cases it is not possible to do this. We note that the current legislation and regulations are not designed to protect people's rights to their property and that the ability of property owners to handle their property needs to be improved. The government has announced a proposal that is under way, and we expect the legislation to be brought back to Parliament as a matter of urgency. However, I would like to point out, at least for the sake of the Swedish Democrats, that this is a step forward. It is a step in the right direction, and I think it will have an effect. What this means in practice must then be evaluated. To the red-green parties, who seem to live in la-la-land and believe that the alliance parties should give up and not act as opposition just because the government has announced something, I would say: I can talk about child marriage. The government announced in February 2016 that it would come back with an investigation to stop child marriage, but it took that we demanded an announcement and an initiative in committee before actually doing anything. So we can perhaps take that a little less seriously, given that the red-greens have not done their job before. The third point concerns deleveraging. Liberals believe that the government should take the initiative to introduce a three-year debt restructuring plan, without payment-free months. The Liberals have been doing this for many years; our own debt restructuring investigation suggested this. It is the government that is conservative in this case. We want to be able to get back on your feet as quickly as possible. Today, there are too many Swedes who are unable to pay on the debt but who are paying on the interest rate. It is about the 100 000 Swedes with an average of 20 years of debt, which Johanna from the Social Democrats so carefully talked about. We believe that one should be able to pay off one's debts as quickly as possible so that one can come back and become a net donor to society. That's the most important thing. You shouldn't have to pay off your interest instead of the debt for the rest of your life-- the faster you pay off your debts the better. With Liberal policy, debt restructuring is ongoing for 36 months, unlike the government's new law, where it is 50 months. Yet the Green Party and the Social Democrats in this House are bragging today that you are so very good and have such a child perspective. In this case, you are incredibly conservative! It must be a bit difficult to know that the Alliance actually has a more favourable proposal for debt restructuring than the Red-Greens have. However, I can congratulate the Left Party; I am not talking about them in this context. We also believe from the Liberals that other measures may be required to renew and make the debt restructuring institution even more accessible than it is at present. For example, one must improve the information to the 100 000 Swedes that Johanna from the Social Democrats spoke so warmly about. It must be easier to obtain information. I believe that information on the possibilities should be sent directly to the people concerned. As I said, we welcome the new law, but we are incredibly critical of the government and the Swedish Democrats for making it more difficult than necessary for these indebted individuals to come back. We are particularly critical of the Swedish Democrats, who in my view are hypocrites on this issue. During the previous term of office they wanted a three-year payment plan, but when the bill was then delivered to the Swedish parliament they were instead of a five-year payment plan. This is quite speaking for the way the Swedish democrats conduct politics. It's popcorn. You don't have your own opinions – it's just about punishing immigrants. Finally, the Liberals are incredibly proud that we have received two announcements today, especially from our own committee motion on vehicle goaltenders. Other parties have jumped on this, and we therefore have the majority. We expect the government to return to Parliament as soon as possible, set up an investigation into the vehicle goaltenders and come back to Parliament with legislation regarding evictions.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1241	Madam President, I would like When I was about four years old, I lived in Mörlunda. For those of you who do not know where Mörlunda is located, it is a place in Kalmar County, specifically in Hultsfred municipality. One night my father took my hand, and we went out in the evening and looked up at the firmament. It was a fascinating sight to see all the stars. As we stood there and looked up, my father told me that there was something called Sputnik who went around the world. He told me that it was a country called the Soviet Union that had sent up a Sputnik. I didn't know what a Sputnik was then, and I had no idea what the Soviet Union was. But it was there, when I was about four years old, that a seed was planted inside me. This seed has grown, and today I am fascinated by space, space activities and space research. Today, many, many years later, I am now in Parliament's pulpit talking about a space strategy for Europe. I'm saying this is an important question. Space activities and research have facilitated our lives here on Earth. I just need to get my cell phone out for you all to know, and imagine, what possibilities space and satellites have meant for our lives. It will also continue to revolutionize our lives. Our Parliament has been prepared to discuss a space strategy for Europe, and several committees have been involved in the process. It is a good way to increase participation and to anchor common commitments. It is also good that we do this when we know that the government is preparing a Swedish space strategy within the Government Office. Unfortunately, the attempt to shape a common EU-Esa space strategy failed. Nevertheless, cooperation between these two actors is urgently needed. It is necessary for Europe to maintain its leading position in space, to increase its presence in international space markets and to exploit the benefits and opportunities of the space sector. The proposal for a space strategy for Europe contains four strategic objectives. The first is the greatest possible benefit for society and the European economy. The second is an innovative European space sector with international competitiveness. The third objective is a more independent Europe with secure access to and use of space. The fourth objective is a strengthened role for the EU in the world and increased international cooperation. Madam President, I would like A united committee welcomes these strategic objectives. At the same time, the committee stresses the importance of putting the strategy into practice and of implementing the priorities set out in each strategic objective. Time does not allow me to go through the various measures in detail, but let me briefly highlight some issues which we in committee have found particularly important to highlight in the debate. First of all, research into space provides increased knowledge of human existence and of our perception of ourselves and origin. It gives perspective on time and history. This is an educational perspective, I would say, which can broaden the limits of our existing knowledge and awaken ideas that give rise to scientific, human and social research and technological development. Space research and activities are today of vital importance to society, for example for navigation, banking, weather forecasting, telecommunications and environmental and climate monitoring. Therefore, the space sector can make important contributions to meeting global and societal challenges. For example, the Copernicus Earth Copernicus Programme can contribute to the follow-up of the UN Sustainable Development Goals as well as to the EU's climate targets and Sweden's environmental objectives. Secondly, the Committee on Education and Training agrees with the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Commission's assessment that measures are needed to create a more innovative space sector in order to contribute to economic growth, competitiveness and employment across the EU. Sweden is today a leading space nation, and Sweden will continue to be a leading space nation. Swedish companies have a long tradition in the space sector and are at the forefront. Given the unique facility of the Esrange space base, it is important that the space strategy is open to the possibility of establishing several European space ports for rocket launch of satellites. Like the Constitutional Committee, I would particularly like to stress the importance of monitoring the protection of personal integrity in the implementation of the space strategy. It is an important task to monitor the integrity of every human being. Finally, I would like to refer to the Committee on Defence's comments on the new threats that exist in the space area, such as cyber threats, the amount of space debris and other security-related threats. It is therefore essential to create synergies between civil and defence-related applications to meet the security needs of the Member States and the Union. Madam President, I would like We need to increase understanding of space activities and research. As a four - year - old, I had a first feeling for this, and it has grown stronger over the years. Today, I say at an emphasis that space research and activities are important. Space issues are not only reserved for an exclusive crowd. Space activities and research are relevant to society as a whole. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1257	Madam President, I would like A week ago, The New York Times wrote that American and European scientists have found no less than seven new planets, and they are believed to have the potential to live. It is not the first time in the centuries that such fanciful hypotheses are presented. But today, even the American space agency NASA and their former chief scientist Ellen Stofan are saying that within ten years we will have found signs of life and that within 20 to 30 years we will have definite proof of it all – breathtaking statements from such an organization, not least because it concerns these eternal and existential issues. The more knowledge we acquire about space, the more benefit we gain from it. Research and innovation in space technology has enabled applications that only 50 years ago must have seemed like science fiction. Who would have thought, then, that today we would have tractors that adjust their manure distribution by means of satellites or buses that can do that? Who would have thought that we could now navigate to the most unknown places on the globe without the help of a printed map? And who would have thought that tourists from the high north would be able to withdraw money through a hole in the wall when they are in Buenos Aires? Moreover, today we have found many more uses. For example, space technology has enabled us to diagnose cataracts at an earlier stage, and today doctors can warn against stroke and vascular narrowing earlier than before thanks to space technology. We can also keep track of Arctic ice while we can monitor a hateful algal bloom or oil spill in the Baltic Sea. It is undoubtedly the case, as my colleague, Thomas Strand, has shown, that space and space technology make life on earth more sustainable, simpler and enlightened. Much of this has been done thanks to an established openness in an international research paired with innovative engineers and entrepreneurs who have seen opportunities. But so far there has been a lack of a structured approach that can better help us meet future societal challenges and which can be a supporting tool for monitoring their development. My colleague mentioned the example of the Copernicus Earth Copernicus Programme, which provides an opportunity today, for example, to follow up the objectives of the UN's sustainability work. We've missed that before. The European Space Strategy developed by the Commission is therefore relevant and important. It is also interesting because it spans several areas, ranging from climate and certain security policies to the possibility of commercialising innovations – moving from space technology to finding new innovative products. In this latter area, there is certainly still great potential. Then I find it interesting that the European Union sees that we have an important role to play there, not just the major players in the world. Madam President, I would like We Moderates would have liked the government to have been as forward-looking and strategic as the Commission in terms of working and gathering Sweden to find the Swedish space strategy. The Alliance government prepared this and set up an investigation. It was presented in August 2015 and the referral was then discussed, but then it stopped. No proposal has been presented and is not included in the bill list that runs until September this year. This is the list that the government itself has submitted to the Riksdag. The Minister for Space has answered a written question from my signature, and it does not disperse the clouds. I asked the question barely a year ago and received the answer from the Minister: I now hear that Thomas Strand hopes that the issue will continue to be addressed, and that is also what our report says. But this is what the so-called Space Minister himself said, and it does not feel good. Of course, it would have been a strength for Sweden to have its own formulated strategy in place when we are now engaged in the European. All alliance parties have therefore, in connection with the research bill, called for a Swedish space strategy to be presented during the year. We hope and expect that we will have the support of the government parties for this, not least because, fortunately, we have been able to bring all parties together in the Committee on Education and Training and we agree on the importance of a European strategy, that is, the one we are discussing today and which the Commission has drawn up. We agree on the strategic objectives presented. We think it is a good thing to enable Esrange to be eligible for launch of mini-satellite satellites, that personal integrity must be safeguarded, that the EU and E are to cooperate better and that budgetary restraint should prevail. For the sake of clarity, I would also like to mention that the satellite Govsatcom, which is proposed, among other things, to provide authorities, as it is said, with resilient satellite communications services for security purposes, is mentioned in the European Space Strategy. But it has not been dealt with specifically in committee. Nor has the government presented a position on it. This is unfortunate because there are some who believe that Govsatcom may be one of the first initiatives to be implemented in the space strategy. However, as I said, we Moderates have not yet been able to take a position on this issue. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to emphasise once again that we Moderates believe that space research is important for Sweden, because it is closely linked to societal challenges both nationally and internationally. Like the Commission, we believe that there are great opportunities to further develop and commercialise more data capture and also to develop other forms of space services, which will, above all, benefit small and medium-sized enterprises. With reference to the government's wording in the research and innovation bill, which we will be debating here on 5 April, the Moderates believe that the government unfortunately does not give the Swedish space business the boost it deserves. This is also why the Swedish Moderates' budget proposal for 2017 involves a total of 30 million, while the government adds 0 SEK. It is good that the EU is now leading the way, per aspera ad astra. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal for a decision.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1271	Madam President, I would like On the whole, we agree on this issue. What Betty Malmberg has talked about here with regard to a space strategy for Europe, we are very much in agreement. Betty Malmberg mentioned a great many examples of the importance of space research and activities in our society, and on this point we agree. It still gets a little weird when Betty then can't fail to point needle sticks at the government. This is, of course, a question of the space strategy for Europe. We are not discussing a space strategy for Sweden. Yet Betty has to raise that issue. I can reassure Betty that the government will come back to this issue this year. The government has been very committed to shaping a space strategy for Europe. We have received documentation of this and have had discussions in committee with the representatives of the government. It has been a great commitment to the Swedish Government precisely for the importance of space, space research and space activities. It is rather strange that Betty Malmberg for eight years represented a government that did not manage to develop a space strategy itself. You had eight years. You were able to launch an investigation that we've had to take over. The government has said that it should return to the issue this year, so on this point the present government is more rapid-footed than the bourgeois government, which did not succeed for eight years. Then my question is: why did the then government not come up with a space strategy when you had the chance?
i-W7f1BmqnRCtHTmZpnA3dNS	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Strand, for the questions! I would like to explain why I took the opportunity to highlight the lack of the Swedish space strategy. It is about the fact that the report, although the title is A European Space Strategy, contains several headlines referring to Swedish space activities. It describes what the situation looks like in Sweden today, how much is invested and how many annual services involve different employees. It is therefore of the highest relevance that we can also touch on the Swedish space strategy – or rather the lack of a Swedish space strategy. As I said earlier, I am pleased that we can show a consensus in the Education Committee. It is a strength that we can show that we agree on these issues and that we have faith in space activities and in the future. Thomas Strand says that the government is showing a great deal of commitment at the European level. Yes, it's very possible. I saw a clip on Twitter yesterday where the Secretary of Space baked space emlodes. It's also a commitment called good. But I had been more valiant that Sweden took on the strategic plan. We can discuss why no more came about under the alliance government, but the important thing was that we took steps to approach the whole thing and set up an investigation. From August 2015, however, it has been quiet.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1281	Madam President, I would like The embarrassing phenomenon of having a bourgeois government for eight years that was not capable of producing a strategy for space itself remains. There is now an investigation, and the Minister has said that the matter is under preparation and will return to Parliament's table during the year. We can save the discussion until we arrive at the date when we will debate the Swedish commitment to the issue. In the actions we have received when preparing the space strategy for Europe, we see that the government has been committed on many points and has highlighted many important perspectives on the issue in order to make it a good European space strategy. It has also been confirmed when we have met with the Minister and the Secretary of State. We agree that the issue is important, and we must help each other so that even more people see the importance of space activities and research. It's not just an exclusive crowd that thinks this is interesting, and this is not just something for some tech nerds. This concerns us all and our whole life. That's why space activities and space research are very important. On this point we agree, and we can work towards the same goal. However, there was no space strategy during the eight years of the bourgeois government.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1286	Madam President, I would like Let me correct Thomas Strand. The fact that the investigation was set up and that the space strategy that we have not yet received has nevertheless begun emanating from a bottom-up perspective. Several different space actors joined forces to highlight the benefits we derive from space. From this perspective, an investigation was then set up under the alliance government. This was not on the table and was to be launched by the former Social Democratic Government, but something that has been swept forward over the years. It wasn't even on the table from 2006. Instead, it has emerged. The important thing is that it is now on paper and that the investigation has gone all the way – we in the Education Committee have got a pull of it by Ingemar Skogö. That is why we must continue with the work. When I asked a question to Minister for Space Helene Hellmark Knutsson in April 2016, I received the answer that a possible space strategy would come. This is worrying. I have asked the question once again now, but I will not receive any answers and answers until 8 March. That is why today I do not know what the country is like. As I said, it was a bottom-up approach that made this happen, that the investigation came about and that there is a commitment to the issues. I share Thomas Strand's view that we should certainly show the benefits and new perspectives of space technology. This shows the examples I mentioned earlier, such as the diagnosis of your cataracts earlier and the possible calcification of blood vessels. We also have precision agriculture, which brings quite different environmental benefits. This is what we will work for together.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1291	Madam President, I would like We are currently debating the EU's space strategy. I think that previous speakers have wisely highlighted this and the strategic objectives identified in the EU's space strategy. It is going in the right direction, and we have a united committee on the European Commission's proposal. It is about optimising societal benefits, strengthening the European space industry, strengthening Europe's autonomy and independence in space and strengthening Europe's role as a global player. This is extremely important. I was also going to lift up some things that are in the periphery. What does a European space strategy mean for Sweden? What does space policy mean for ordinary people? Yes, it means, among other things, jobs. In Sweden, approximately 12 000 people are employed in the aerospace industry. Four thousand of them are active in West Sweden. If you look at only the space industry itself, 1 300 people are active. So it creates jobs and growth. It also creates new technologies that are not only useful in the space sector but also in other industries. There have been wise examples in the past of how it can contribute to new technologies in our phones or that forestry can become more efficient in the future. It is important to highlight technological development and what it actually brings, not only for the space industry itself, but for many other related industries. It is both about features that we can use and about other companies being able to use this in their products. We have, for example, the aeronautics industry that is nearby. Madam President, I would like During the last parliamentary term, when the Alliance ruled, there was a national audit report that was extremely critical of Swedish space policy. There was talk of poor governance and the fact that space was not used as a strategic asset. Moreover, it was said that some economic aspects were not followed up. For this reason, the government set up an investigation into a national space strategy, which was much sought by the industry itself. They wanted to know what the intention was for Swedish space policy – this to create the conditions for developing new products and new operations but also to create better conditions for the companies that are active there now. The report was presented in autumn 2015, and after a year and a half there has still been no proposal from the government, despite the fact that it has been submitted for referral. Everyone in the space industry is interested in achieving a space strategy. Instead, the focus is shifted to the fact that we are debating whether or not to have a Swedish space strategy and whether or not we can expect a proposal from the government. The basis of the study is a good basis for discussion of what such a strategy could contain. But then it is necessary for the government to present a proposal regarding Sweden. It would also have been very good to have a Swedish space strategy in place when we discussed how we should work in Europe with a space strategy. As I said, it affects people both in terms of jobs and with new technologies and new innovations. I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the nearby fact that the EU and Esa could not land in a common space strategy. Much of the space work that Sweden does as a global player is done through cooperation with Esa. Shortly before Christmas, the Swedish government was in place and discussed the future of EASA and future investments in the space sector. Unfortunately, Sweden reduced its ambition, which created some discussions about the impact on jobs in Sweden, including in West Sweden. This gives clarity. While most countries maintained their level and invested or increased their level, Sweden chose to reduce its efforts within Esa, which is unfortunate. It affects the Swedish industry if we choose to reduce international cooperation. My hope is that the European space strategy we are discussing today can create better conditions for Swedish companies and industries, so that more jobs can be created and new products and new innovations that will benefit more people. This can contribute to the Swedish space industry. But then we also need a Swedish national space strategy. I expect the government to return to that as soon as possible. Hopefully, the Alliance's motion regarding the research bill can be accepted; we want the government to rapidly develop a national space strategy.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1303	Madam President, I would like We will discuss a space strategy for Europe, not Swedish conditions. Even so, Fredrik Christensson cannot refrain from criticising the government for various space positions. It is not really true that Sweden is cutting back on the ambition in Esa. That was to slip on the truth. It is even the case that Sweden increases the grant to the Swedish Space Agency by 40 million over two years in the research bill. The problem that Fredrik Christensson suggests when it comes to Esa is about how the Swedish National Board of Space should handle that money. The costs are increasing in many areas, so also with regard to the very activities that Fredrik Christensson is probably referring to, where it is about equipping satellites with components and where Swedish companies are involved. However, Sweden is investing more money in the Swedish Space Agency. The Space Board is then involved in making decisions on how to use the money. It must not be the case that all the money is eaten up by a single measure, so that other space research comes into play. Sweden wants to invest, but it is also important that we have an authority – the Swedish Space Agency in this case – that tries to navigate and put the money to more people and not just end up with one actor.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1306	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that Thomas Strand wants us to have a focus in our space policy. Then we should make sure that we get a national space strategy, so that it becomes easier for the Space Board to navigate. It could be facilitated by a space strategy, where we know what to focus on and not. It is clear that the issue of Esa has several dimensions. Part of the funding is also about exchange rate changes, which of course has affected Swedish participation. But Sweden has also reduced its ambitions for both the mandatory and the voluntary programmes. This affects people, and it affects jobs. In West Sweden one could read about how one of the big companies there was at risk of losing jobs because of how Swedish participation in European space policy was managed. I'm not really in on why Thomas Strand is defending that the government has not presented a national space strategy. It's been a year and a half. If you have been in government for two and a half years, you can no longer blame anyone else. You have your own responsibility to develop a policy that you believe in yourself. If we want clear ground rules for the space industry, we must also make proposals on this. I believe that the starting point of the study that has been presented on a space strategy is a good basis. I expect the government to soon present a proposal for a Swedish space strategy. It would be very good to have one when we discuss both European space policy and the conditions for Swedish space policy in the future.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1309	Madam President, I would like In 2006 the bourgeois power won in Sweden. They sat for eight years. Towards the end of these eight years, a decision was made to launch an investigation into a space strategy. But this whole space strategy thing was known a long time ago. The feeling was almost that they thought, now we have to do something and set up an investigation. For eight years, the bourgeois government failed to develop a space strategy. It was only possible to start an investigation at the end. We have now inherited it. Sometime in 2017 – it will then have been two three years – the government will return to the issue. We then have reason to discuss Sweden's commitment and how Sweden should think about space issues. It is quite good to be able to discuss this issue in the European Union. Ideally, we would like a common approach between the EU and Esa. Unfortunately, that was not possible, but we have at least discussed together what to do. This is an international issue. This applies not only to Sweden, but also to how we can cooperate with other countries, because this is a costly matter. Sweden has been committed to developing the space strategy for Europe, and that is quite good, because with that commitment you can also handle space issues and research in Sweden. That is an important priority. I would also like to say that the Swedish National Space Agency receives more money to invest in space research. It is above all space research and the development of space activities that are important. You should also have respect for the board making its priorities out of where to put the resources you get.
i-4d46c44ff974b017-1312	Madam President, I would like I do not really want to repeat myself, but the Social Democratic-led government has been running for two and a half years. For a year and a half, an investigation into a national space strategy has been available. To talk about what happened in space politics during the Alliance's time is to push over the problem. I thought I knew that Thomas Strand is a person who takes responsibility for what the government is now doing and is responsible for, and what it is responsible for is, of course, to present its space policy. So far we have seen nothing coming there. It is clear that it would have been nice for the Swedish space industry and the companies that are active there to know what Sweden wants and what Swedish politics wants with space. But it would also have been a good basis for the work on a European space policy that we have debated today to know what Sweden wants and in what way we want to hook arms for a better European space policy. Then a national space strategy would be important. During the time of the Alliance, there was a national audit report that was very critical of the governance of space policy. The Alliance reacted relatively quickly and set up an investigation, which has now been set aside since the Red-Green Government took office. But it is also important to point out that it is also about jobs, which I think is forgotten from and to. It is not just about research, but also about other companies operating in the space industry that are also dependent. They are particularly dependent on international space policy. A Swedish participation there strengthens these companies, but also their surrounding businesses; technology that emerges in space activities is often useful even in other industries. Therefore, I very much hope that Thomas Strand and the Red Green Government will make sure to present a Swedish space strategy as soon as possible.
