i-6634fc875becb13d-18	Mrs. Old President! Ladies and gentlemen! Mikael Oscarsson has asked me whether I share his conclusion that it is problematic for children in a state to learn intolerance, hatred and violence against a population in primary school. Furthermore, he has asked me whether I am willing to set up independent and unconditional scrutiny of what UNRWAS – the United Nations Aid Agency for Palestinian Refugees – funds are used for, how the money goes to education and how well human rights are respected in the Palestinian primary school. To the first question is the short and quite obvious answer: Yes, of course. In the implementation of the aid in all contexts, Sweden requires good control and respect for human rights, the fight against corruption and work for gender equality. The Swedish Government is very clear in its dialogue with representatives of Palestine and Israel on the importance of distancing violence and acting in a way that can contribute to a climate of trust and meaningful negotiations on a two-state solution. The government is aware that there is a wide-ranging debate on the extent to which there is sedition on Israeli and Palestinian sides in school books and that the issue is controversial. The government does not consider the interpellant's assertions about the education received by Palestinian schoolchildren to be fair, either in Unrwa's schools or in the other Palestinian schools that use the same curriculum. Unrwa, like other UN bodies, is governed in cooperation by the members of the international community, and the government trusts that aid money goes to the purposes of UNRWA's mandate. The government works with Unrwa, as with other UN agencies, to ensure that the organisation works effectively and that Swedish aid funds are thus used optimally. As regards UNRWA's teaching materials, reference is made to the curriculum of the country in question, namely Palestine, Lebanon, Syria or Jordan. The aim of this is simply that schoolchildren should be able to take degrees that are valid for their professional life or for further studies in that country. Unrwa also teaches specifically on human rights, tolerance and peaceful conflict management issues in her schools, where about 500 000 children go. Unrwa's impartiality, in particular with regard to school literature and curricula, is continuously monitored by several donor countries, as well as Unrwa's own internal review in case of allegations of sedition or similar. The interpeller mentions examples from 2010 and 2013. Since then, both UNRWA's educational work and the Palestinian Authority's curriculum have been reformed. Unrwa has collaborated closely with relevant ministries in the host countries on new literature and ensures that school children are shared UN values and principles. This is done in a structured way, based on a framework developed together with UNESCO. The government's assessment is that Unrwa has working procedures to quickly and legally deal with alleged cases of violent extremism, anti-Semitism or the like, both in schoolbooks and in other contexts, such as social media. The government thus has full confidence that Unrwa and its staff can carry out their important mandate and see no basis for questioning Unrwa's impartiality.
i-6634fc875becb13d-28	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for your answer. I have been involved in this issue for several years because I think it is important to look at where Swedish aid money goes and how we use the position we have. Sweden is a great power in terms of aid, not least to Palestine and the Palestinian Authority. I have shown several times in debates how, unfortunately, the Palestinian Authority, led by the Social Democrats' sister party Fatah, does not live up to what can be expected. You can see on their website and their official Facebook page that they encourage violence against civilian Israelis. In school education there is hate speech, and this is something that has been raised by Hillary Clinton, for example. It is clearly stated in the UN basic document that children have the right to receive education where there is no such thing, but unfortunately nothing happens. What I have tried to bring forward several times is that it should be obvious that Sweden is making counter-claims. This is something that I think we would do whatever similar problems are revealed. We would demand that something happen. In her answer, Isabella Lövin said, "The government is aware that there is a wide-ranging debate about the extent to which there is sedition on Israeli and Palestinian pages in school books and that the question is contentious." Then we must first look at some basic facts. How can you even compare Israeli and Palestinian schoolbooks? Fundamental facts are that Israel is a living democracy with freedom of the press, freedom of expression and freedom of religion. The Christian population in Israel is the only one who has increased in the Middle East in the last 50 years. The Muslim population of Israel has become ten times larger since the state of Israel was proclaimed in 1948. There are more women in the Israeli Parliament than in more than half the parliaments in Europe. In the areas controlled by the Palestinian Authority there is neither democracy, freedom of the press, freedom of expression nor freedom of religion. There have been no elections since 2006. The Palestinian President, Mahmoud Abbas, is in his twelfth year, even though he actually has a four-year mandate. Journalists who criticise the Palestinian Authority are being imprisoned and tortured – there are many examples of this. The Christian population has almost been exterminated, such as in Betlehem. There they accounted for 60% when the Palestinian Authority took over in the 1990s, but now they are under 15%. Jews are urged not to enter areas controlled by the Palestinian Authority when their lives would then be in danger. This is in stark contrast to the fact that tens of thousands of Palestinians go into Israel every day with no danger whatsoever. Then there are recent studies showing that the Israeli schools place great emphasis on supporting peace between Jews and Arabs. But in the schools of the Palestinian Authority it is exactly the opposite. 78 Palestinian textbooks for grades 1 to 12 do not even mention the word peace. Isn't that something where Sweden could act, be a clear voice and counterclaim?
i-6634fc875becb13d-39	Mrs. Old President! Not only Sweden, but many donor countries are watching this issue very closely. I would like to emphasise that the Palestinian Authority's curriculum is also being used in East Jerusalem, in the schools administered by Israel, which are under Israeli occupation. They have the same curriculum. There is also a working group consisting of Belgium, Canada, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, Norway, the USA and the EU that has specifically examined the Palestinian Authority's education system. Unicef, Unrwa and the World Bank are also members of that group. There is a joint training committee on the basis of the Oslo Agreement, made up of Israel and the Alestinian Authority. They meet regularly and can deal with any complaints about school literature. Apart from Palestine, there are 100 schools in Jordan, Syria and Lebanon. They train about 500,000 children. The results of the evaluations are that this is an education that is among the best in the region. The World Bank wrote in a report from 2014 that U nrwas schools are much better – consistently ou tperform public school by a margin equal to more than one additional year of learning. This training, of course, takes place under extremely difficult circumstances. The blockade of Gaza is now entering its tenth year. Two wars during this time have made the living conditions of the population very difficult. Sweden supports Palestine and the Palestinian people in this very difficult situation. I, too, as Minister for Development, may be slightly distressed that since 2016, 1 094 Palestinian humanitarian structures in area C have been destroyed or confiscated. This meant that 1,628 people, including 772 children, were transferred against their will. Of these, 182 structures were financed from EU aid funds. From September 2016 to February 2017, 440 Palestinian structures in area C have been destroyed or confiscated. Of these, 117 were financed by the EU. This is money being pulverized. An attempt to create a peaceful two-state solution is systematically undermined by the illegal occupation. Of course, I and the government completely reject all incitement, all calls for violence and war or to resolve this conflict by violent means. That is our message to both parties. But it seems very far from the fact that both parties should be willing to negotiate the peace that Mikael Oscarsson says is mentioned in the Israeli textbooks. I sincerely hope that the new generation will understand that we are more alike than each other. I also hope that the continuing bloody conflict in which people are both killed and displaced will have a peaceful end and a two-state solution.
i-6634fc875becb13d-48	Mrs. Old President! In Northern Ireland, for example, the reason for this was to remove all hate speech. Unfortunately, things have gotten worse. 78 Palestinian school books have been looked at – as I mentioned earlier – for grades 1 to 12, and there was no word for peace at all. The State of Israel, with one exception, is not even on the map. Instead, they have a series of texts that encourage and glorify violence and jihad. This is the root of the anti-Semitism there. The children's programme of the official Palestinian Authority clearly states that Jews are pigs, pigs or rats, and it keeps coming back. There is a new 140 - page report presented by UN Watch to a committee in the House of Representatives in Washington. The report identified 40 alarming new examples in which Unrwa's teachers in Gaza, Lebanon, Jordan and Syria on Facebook celebrate jihadister terrorism and anti-Semitism and deny the Holocaust. There are also a number of examples where teachers pay tribute to Hitler. It is therefore strange that the Minister for Development is not prepared to look specifically at what our tax money is spent on. How is this money managed? If the government is so keen that this development does not continue, it should be a great opportunity, in future negotiations when the money is to be distributed, to look at, among other things, the 30 schools that are named after terrorists. When you interview the Palestinian students, they say: These are our role models. That's the name of our school. If we are to get anywhere in this important peace process, we must see that it does not work. In the Palestinian school, Israel and peace are not mentioned at all in the textbooks. Then my question is: why can the government not consider making a real evaluation of the functioning of the Palestinian Authority's schools, including Unrwa's teachers?
i-6634fc875becb13d-56	Mrs. Old President! I can agree with Mikael Oscarsson any day of the year that hate propaganda is totally reprehensible. That's not the way forward. However, I wonder whether Mikael Oscarsson can agree that illegal settlements or systematic destruction and confiscation of humanitarian aid-funded structures on occupied land is something that we should condemn. That's exactly what's going on right now. The review of the education system that Mikael Oscarsson is calling for has, of course, just been carried out by all donor countries – a UN, World Bank and other working group – and the working group in which the USA and the European Union belong, as I have just mentioned. There is also, as I said, a training committee on the basis of the Oslo agreement, which includes Israel and Palestine, and which meets regularly and can address these issues, and I am absolutely convinced that they do. The curriculum that Mikael Oscarsson wants Sweden to question is used in Israeli-administered schools in East Jerusalem. I do not know in what way Israel accepts something that Sweden would apparently be able to fix through a search by the Swedish side. What does Sweden's aid provide in Palestine? Yes, it is the belief in the future and hope of the millions of people living under occupation, not least those children and young people who need education and jobs and who need drinking water, which is an acute scarce resource because of the Israeli occupation, not least after closing the borders with the Gaza Strip. I don't know if Mikael Oscarsson saw yesterday at Aktuellt, where they showed young girls who played softball – ordinary young people who want a future. These are the ones we support by providing opportunities for jobs through our aid strategy. We are investing in the private sector, especially so that girls and young women can enter the labour market and support themselves without being dependent on aid. We support water structures, so that we can have access to water, a huge shortage in this area. We support organisations that work for democracy and human rights. But we are not giving budget support to the Palestinian Authority. We provide support that is channelled through organisations that know that this money comes up and goes to the right things. Unfortunately, Israel is demolishing and destroying some of what Sweden is financing with aid funds. Nevertheless, we are convinced that we will do this, because we want to give hope for the future to these young people, so that they do not see it as the outside world has abandoned them – I am convinced that hate speech will grow. Of course, we want to see an opening. These young people, these girls who play softball, will have an opportunity for a future, so that they can work, travel, have citizenship, own things and plan for their future. They will not be able to do so by pressing for certain things to be eliminated from social media that Sweden does not have control over, but what we are going to do is offer the means to enable them to create a future.
i-6634fc875becb13d-64	Mrs. Old President! Sweden is one of the world's most important donors, and that is something we can be proud of. But in our eagerness to help, we must not become naive. Today, there are 30 schools that the Palestinian Authority has chosen to name after terrorists. The word is not mentioned in 78 schoolbooks examined for grades 1 - 12. The state of Israel is not mentioned and is deleted from the map, where the names of its cities have been replaced by Palestinian names. Palestinian schools urge children to be martyrs. It dismisses negotiations and demonises the state of Israel. Its very existence is denied. UN Watch has recently produced a report entitled Poisoning Palestinian Children, i.e. poisoning Palestinian children. That is why I keep coming back to this issue. In Sweden, the government is working against anti-Semitism, and that is a good thing, Madam President. But if we are to get somewhere, we must see the anti-Semitism that comes from children's programmes and is in the school books and that Hillary Clinton and many others have produced reports about. We must dare to see it with open eyes. Peace will never get anywhere if we continue to educate children to hate Israelis, if we continue to do nothing about this propaganda and if we do not listen to these 40 examples of Unrwa's teachers who salute Hitler and deny the Holocaust. If you do not understand that this will have a negative impact on the chances of getting anywhere with the peace process, you are blind. It is tragic that the government is blind on such an important issue. Sweden could make a difference – if we want it and make counter demands when we give money.
i-6634fc875becb13d-66	Mrs. Old President! I condemn anti-Semitism and hate speech. But I do not hear Mikael Oscarsson reject the illegal occupation, confiscation or destruction of humanitarian aid-funded structures. I find that very sad. I am not allowed to ask a question in my closing speech, but I have not heard Mikael Oscarsson say that he is distrusting the joint committee that exists between Israel and Palestine on education issues. Sweden does not specifically fund the education system in Palestine, but through our assistance we create opportunities for young people to create a future. This applies in particular to girls and women, and in particular to jobs and opportunities to make a living, so that we do not get involved in what may be a temptation for many young people, namely an armed struggle, which we certainly do not see as the future. We want to see a negotiated two-state solution, and then, of course, illegal acts must stop. Hatpropaganda doesn't lead anywhere. Finally, I would like to stress that during his visit to Palestine in December, the Minister for Foreign Affairs raised the issue with Malki and that we condemn acts of violence, including terrorism. With us in the UN Security Council, we are also involved in condemning terrorist attacks such as those that took place on 8 January in Jerusalem.
i-6634fc875becb13d-69	Mrs. Old President! Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures I and the government have taken for those furthest from the labour market and what these measures have resulted in for the involved companies and the enrolled persons in the employment phase. I have answered similar questions both on 21 February and 21 March this year regarding the measures taken by the government for participants in the previous employment phase. Active labour market policies mean that job seekers should be given access to measures that strengthen their job opportunities. Everyone who can work should work, and it is the government's top priority that more people should get to work. Since access, the government has re-established labour market policies, focusing on results rather than on detailed management. In order to contribute to a more effective labour market policy, the government has simplified and clarified the labour market acquis and improved opportunities for local cooperation. The Job and Development Guarantee is now personalised, less detailed and without phases. The long-term unemployed currently have the opportunity, based on the individual need, to take part in the entire toolkit of the Employment Service's active interventions. The possibility of studies has been reinforced and the introduction and reinforcement of additional services has been implemented. In addition, modern state-owned preparedness jobs have been introduced and the extension of trainee jobs and career introductions for the long-term unemployed and newcomers have been implemented. The Government has broadened the possibilities for work training and reinforced work training for all participants in the Job and Development Guarantee, who are deemed to be helped by this effort. Many work integration social enterprises have been active in previous phase 3 which resembles work training. The increased opportunities for work training are thus an important contribution to taking advantage of the work of more existing work integration social enterprises, but also a way for the Public Employment Service to continue its cooperation with other good organisers of work for the unemployed. I see the valuable work of, among other things, work integration social enterprises for individuals who have been unemployed for a long time. The Government's ambition is that these companies should grow and grow and thus be able to continue their work in supporting, strengthening and creating meaningful employment for people with a weak position in the labour market. Individuals have different needs and different conditions, and we therefore need to be able to offer a broad range of actions. Depending on the labour market situation and individual conditions, Arbetsförmedlingen will assess which measures are most suitable and effective for the individual to be able to leave unemployment for work or study. Since the turn of the government, the number of people employed has increased sharply, unemployment has decreased and the number of people enrolled in the job and development guarantee has decreased. Not least, progress is positive in terms of the job guarantee for young people. The proportion of those who have received post-establishment employment has also increased, despite the large increase in the number of enrolled participants in the start-up assignment. But I'm still not happy. I believe that the Employment Service can be even better and that more jobseekers can take part in meaningful activities that strengthen their opportunities for work or education. The Government continues to closely monitor the Swedish Public Employment Service's work with the change in the Job and Development Guarantee and phase 3 phase-out.
i-6634fc875becb13d-77	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like to start with a few comments on the answer I have received. The Minister notes that she has responded to similar interpellations both on 21 February and 21 March this year. It is not really so remarkable that they are now getting close. When we are out on study visits, those are the very questions that are raised. It can also be seen in the media that the compensation efforts promised in the election movement have not been fully put in place. Many people are still at home without employment. I'll be happy, and it'll be nice when the minister says she's still not happy. I am therefore looking forward to this debate in which the Minister can further develop the answer that is here. In the election movement, trainees and extra services were promoted by your Social Democrats as magnificent replacements for Phase 3. LO said they'd celebrate when phase 3 went to the grave. The election promise was up to 25 000 additional health and social care services and about 6 000 in school. It's had to be scaled down. In February 2017, approximately 1 per cent of the promised trainee places were filled. Next year, the government expects 2,600 additional services. It would be interesting to get the Minister's comments directly on what it looks like in the future and also by 2018. What's the problem? Why aren't more people coming? Sweden goes like the train. It is booming, and there are a lot of people who have work. However, those in the employment phase in the past had been very far removed from the labour market for a long time. They find it difficult to enter the regular labour market today. There is a need for this kind of extra services and trainees. Dear child has many names. It has been called different over the years: plus jobs, standby jobs and so on. The need will always exist, and there is above all today. Since phase 3 is no longer being used, fewer and fewer long-term unemployed people have been assigned to ideas-based activities. It is also an issue that has often come up in this House. It's hard to generalize. However, many of the ideas-based activities and social enterprises did a very good job with those who had been outside the labour market for many years. Dismantling phase 3 through the electoral promise you had has left many of these people uncertain. Instead, they sit at home today and do not come out and have a job that they appreciate. I would like the Minister to develop this further. I am also thinking of the fact that around a quarter of those who have left the employment phase have been given jobs. That is extremely positive. But most also have some form of support employment. A large proportion of those in phase 3 are born abroad, over 55 years of age or have disabilities with limited working capacity. Since Sweden is doing very well, there are many in work. Very few native born Swedes are unemployed. This group may end up even more outside when it's booming. I have a thought about the Finsam Leagues. I think they do a very good job and have an interesting concept where you put the money together. This applies precisely to those people who have many contacts within both Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen. This structure is very adequate for those who are far from the labour market. Have the Finsam Associations been further involved for those who were previously in phase 3 and who have limited working capacity?
i-6634fc875becb13d-84	Mrs. Old President! Let me first say that it is totally unacceptable for unemployed people to be referred for a long time to idleness and not to have a registered activity. I take very seriously that this group seems to be growing within Arbetsförmedlingen. It is also one of the most important issues in my dialogue with Arbetsförmedlingen. We cannot have such a development. That is totally unacceptable. Lotta Finstorp asks me how the extra services grow. I am pleased to tell you that they are now growing at a very good pace. It was slow at the start. I was there even at the time we had a plus job. It took time, too. It is a little bit in the nature of the matter that real jobs where people are supposed to perform real tasks at contractual pay take a little longer to agree on than just to be placed and perform tasks without pay and without employment. Now it seems that they are growing at quite a good pace. It is my opinion that the forecasts we have presented in the past will be for the extra services. This is an important opportunity for many who are far removed from the labour market. I would like to draw particular attention to the gender dimension. With regard to wage subsidies to date, and above all new start-ups, the majority of men take part in them. However, for the extra services we see so far that there is a majority of women who take part of them. It is important that the various labour market policies benefit both women and men in an equal and equal way. When it comes to trainee jobs, which Lotta Finstorp also mentions, it is only to admit that they were designed in a situation that we had before the government took office, with a sky high youth unemployment. Young people with upper secondary school skills were also unemployed. We then drew up a labour market policy measure aimed at young people with upper secondary skills. The entire target group has been overcome. They've got a job, which is excellent. It's one of the reasons why there are very few trainee jobs. As far as people who are far removed from the labour market are concerned, I see, as I said in my reply, that work integration social enterprises are very important players. My view is that they should be used more than they do today. It is also one of the issues on which I have a close dialogue with Arbetsförmedlingen. When it comes to entering the labour market, I believe that education is an important part. We have opened up an opportunity for all people in the old phase 3 to study with retained compensation. However, we can see that there are quite few people who make use of this opportunity. In dialogue with Arbetsförmedlingen the explanation is given that the employment mediators have not had any habit or knowledge in motivating to education because for eight years they would not do so. The Swedish Public Employment Service has now adopted a strategy for motivating more people to education. I welcome that. This is one of the areas where we could really do better than we do today in labour market policy, i.e. motivate and transfer more people to regular education. When we look at the composition of the unemployed, the group with a short education is very large. Education is not the only solution but of course an important piece of the puzzle.
i-6634fc875becb13d-91	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your speech. Of course, when it is booming, it is easier to get a job, get young people into the labour market and so on. But we know that in a few years' time... it's hard to say when it's gonna be... there's going to be a recession. Then people must have been given the tools to be on the regular labour market as far as possible. I am thinking of what the Minister says about how it is difficult to get young people, in particular, who have graduated from high school, to go on in education while working in, for example, trainee services. Is there a risk that they do not want to educate themselves today when there is a boom? Municipalities take in everyone who wants to work in, for example, home care. They get a job even though they do not have adequate training. Could it be an obstacle to them wanting to make further efforts, to educate themselves and to take a degree in what they are to work with? It's just a thought that I have when I'm listening. Could it not have kept the non-profit organisations for those who are farthest from it? Even if a municipality needs additional services and takes in more, the percentage that stands very far from having an extremely tough time even in public work. They may need to have less stressful employment where they are greatly supported by those with whom they work. I'd like to hear a little more about it. What I understood from what the Minister said, the Arbetsförmedlingen will also retain these organisers who previously existed. I read an article about phase 3 organizers, as it was previously called. This applies, for example, to All Man in Tumba, who was a very large organizer. They had 50 to 60 people, and today there is 1 person left. Perhaps today there is no one left. People call and ask if they can't come back and so on. Instead, they now sit at home alone during the day. I do not understand why we should not continue to have this as a basis for those who are furthest from the labour market. In the government's spring bill, I cannot see that there is a concrete policy to reduce the job gap between domestic and foreign born. It's the one that's getting bigger and bigger. Those born in the country can easily get a job today because there is a boom, but those born abroad find it difficult to enter the labour market. It is clear that traditional labour market policies have failed to narrow the gap. In the spring bill, only 10 percent of the government's efforts, for example, go to school integration. That is where we have to start getting all the people into the labour market, and preferably with much more prao than we have today. It's a thought I have: Why is it such a small percentage of the spring bill that contains job initiatives for integration? New jobs are emerging in smaller companies, and taxes are instruments for changing behaviour. It is strange, then, that when the Minister for Labour is fighting for more people to get a job, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance is imposing a burden on those companies where we know you can get a job. Four out of five new jobs come in smaller companies. When you have a government that has a job goal of having the EU's lowest unemployment rate in 2020, I find it strange that you do not try to find the gauntlet between labour market policy and entrepreneurship policy. I would like one more comment from the Minister.
i-6634fc875becb13d-98	Mrs. Old President! Of course, when it comes to the question of why young people take jobs instead of training, it is difficult to know. Often the proportion of applicants declines when the labour market is good. At the same time, however, I believe that everyone who has their eyes somewhat transparent sees the enormous need for skills and the quality of the labour market that also exists on a lasting basis if you acquire vocational training in the many professions – almost all – where there is a shortage. I am therefore not very worried about that point – but to have so much evidence of what the development looks like there. I share the view that there are people who are so far from the labour market that it may not even be appropriate to have a job, but rather a job training with support. Therefore, my call to the Employment Service, whose management I met with last night, is to ensure that work integration social enterprises can be used in a more long-term way when it comes to work training with support. We know that many of them are very good at doing just that. Lotta Finstorp asked earlier about Finsam and the coordination associations. I have positive experience with Finsam and the coordination associations. I think there is more to be drawn from making this coordination so that more tailor-made solutions can be made for people who have a complex problem and where it is not uncommon that there is a disease picture or long-term illness in the background. These are people who are therefore in a situation where they need special assistance into the labour market. I welcome this. As far as the future direction and the Spring Bill are concerned, it sets out, as Lotta Finstorp well knows, the framework for the forthcoming budget bill. But I can promise that we will stick to the policy that has led to foreign births being the group that increases its employment the most in the labour market. This is particularly true of women born abroad. This is a policy that we want to see continued. We need to do even more, but it has already clearly turned in the right direction. New AKU figures came today that are positive. Employment is surprising up and unemployment is surprising down. It is therefore very much in the right direction in the Swedish labour market. We have a policy that has led to an increase in the proportion of new arrivals who, after the two-year period of establishment, have entered into work or training, despite the fact that we have many more people in the so-called establishment mission. It will peak this year with the greatest number. When I took office, 27 percent went on to work or study, and now it is 33 percent. It is my intention to continue working for this share to increase. Developments are moving in the right direction. We will continue to pursue a policy that reinforces this, for there are, of course, still challenges. In the case of small enterprises, the government has just announced proposals that the first employee should receive a substantial tax rebate on this employment, a so-called growth subsidy. This means that it will be about 63 000 SEK cheaper than otherwise to hire your first employee. We know that many small companies are reluctant to take the first step in hiring their first person.
i-6634fc875becb13d-106	Mrs. Old President! That's good. I'm sure growing support is very good. But then, on the other hand, you cannot signal 3:12 rules that will be much tougher for companies, because then they will not dare to hire anyway. It's all sort of connected. It is gratifying that more people born abroad have found work. I come from a municipality, Flen municipality, where we have 16.1 percent unemployment. 40% are born abroad. It looks very different in the country, and we live only an hour from Stockholm. There is a real need for action. I have a question about state-of-the-art emergency work. I recently met a staff manager of an authority who had really tried. She had written a requirement specification to her local employment service because she saw that there were tasks that were not carried out. She then received 12 replies with suggestions for people who would never be able to carry out these tasks. She was a little concerned. She comes from a municipality where she has worked as a staff manager, and she said: We in the municipality are used to receiving people who are going to get a foot in the labour market and so on. But in the agency it is difficult to get an acceptance for this. I'd like to hear a little bit about what this looks like. How many have come in, and how does it look in the future? SMEs create four out of five jobs in Sweden. It is important to include yourself in all the reforms to be made. The extra services will now also be available in free schools and privately owned health care facilities. This means that the same government that wants to remove private welfare companies through profit caps now needs them in order to get closer to the number of extra services promised for the 2014 elections.
i-6634fc875becb13d-111	Mrs. Old President! Unfortunately, I do not have the latest figures on modern preparedness jobs with me, but progress is progressing. I also feel confident that we will meet the objectives that have been set. The government is not used to hiring in this way. That is why, among other things, we have made this particular effort. If you expect the private business sector, which is the best at hiring people who are far from the labour market, and municipalities and county councils, which are the second best, to do so, then the state, which is usually the worst at it, must take the lead and show an example that you are prepared to take its share of the responsibility. That's why we do it. I share the view that small and medium-sized enterprises represent an important part of job growth. There is a good collaboration – it is what is called job search – with Arbetsförmedlingen that has been so successful that it has now been permanent and become an important way of working. It really helps employers to find the right skills and to often find jobs for people who they did not know for sure from the start that they would find jobs to. Mrs. Old President! To conclude, I would just like to say that Lotta Finstorp is wrong on one point: the government does not want to abolish private actors in welfare, but we want to ensure that tax money goes to what it is intended for and does not disappear into tax havens or private pockets.
i-6634fc875becb13d-115	Mrs. Old President! Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to reduce the regulatory burden on the labour market so that more people can get internships and jobs. The goal of the government's employment policy is for everyone who can work to work. A labour market policy that contributes to improved matching between job seekers and employers and that equips people to meet labour market requirements is an important means. It is important to seek an effective, clear and easy-to-understand labour market policy framework. Measures to simplify should be taken as far as possible without compromising legal certainty and accuracy, and in so far as they are compatible with other regulatory frameworks. Since access, the government has changed labour market policy with a focus on results rather than detailed management. In order to improve opportunities for personalisation and local collaboration, the regulations in areas such as the Job and Development Guarantee and new start-up jobs have been reviewed and changed, and the governance of the Swedish Public Employment Service has been changed. The government has also launched the 90-day guarantee for young people. All of this has been done by the government to ensure that labour market policy efforts meet the right people and lead to more people getting into work. The government is now also reviewing the rules on employment aid in order to make aid more transparent and to harmonise the various forms of aid where it is considered possible. In a proposal to the Riksdag, the Government has also proposed new rules for the Employment Service's establishment assignments. The aim is to reduce unnecessary administration and create the conditions for increased flexibility and efficiency in the work with the establishment of new arrivals. The government will continue to review the labour market acquis and work towards simplification where it is appropriate.
i-6634fc875becb13d-121	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Yes, everyone who can work should work says the Minister in reply t– yes yes yes fully agrees with that – and therefore all obstacles must be identified that counteract the work of all those who can work. This involves both minimising obstacles for the individual and, of course, obstacles to more jobs being created and employers being able to employ. When you visit various employment services in the country, it is almost always mentioned, as the Minister for Labour stood here last term and told the Alliance Government that there are far too many labour market policies and too few free resources at the Employment Service. That is exactly what the Minister is raising today. There cannot have been much about it, because what they say is: Kalle Svensson – we can make up that a person's name is so – cannot get a measure or get into employment, because we have no money left in that particular drainpipe. We've got a lot of money left in the other drainpipe, but we can't move the money between them. It will be an obstacle for that person to enter the labour market and a great frustration on the part of the administrators who would like to get this person to work. Rules and attitudes towards entrepreneurs are important aspects to get more companies to start and grow and thus create more jobs. In addition, small enterprises' employees account for the largest total tax revenues to the municipalities in the country. In the previous interpellation debate, we talked about four out of five jobs being created in smaller companies. In general, I think that society's policies are too much divided into reeds. We don't think cross-sectorally – in the gutter – but what one hand does doesn't know about. Labour market policy must go hand in hand with measures for more jobs. Since four out of five jobs are added to small and medium-sized enterprises, policies must facilitate the growth and employment of these enterprises. The various proposals that the government has flagged – we do not know if they will happen – if air tax, kilometre tax and 3:12 rules together make it impossible to take the risk of hiring, and then we are not helping more people get into the labour market and get a job. In addition, the Minister for Labour's ambitions for more people to get jobs at the other end of another department or minister are hampered. That's nothing new to the government today. It has always been the case that we have our committees in different drain pipes and the departments as well – but man is more complex than that. In spring 2016, EY and Novus presented a report on the attitude towards entrepreneurship. It is worrying that almost half of all Swedes do not feel that entrepreneurship is encouraged in Sweden, not least because entrepreneurs play an incredibly important role in the Swedish economy and represent a large part of the new jobs. It would be interesting to hear a comment from the Minister for Employment about that. In addition, regulatory simplification would make it easier, in particular, for smaller companies that do not have the same resources as large companies to deal with, for example, a complex tax administration. In the next change of line, I will return to the Swedish National Audit Office's letter, which is very clear about how regulatory problems and inhibiting more jobs reduce the possibility for more people to get a job.
i-6634fc875becb13d-131	Mrs. Old President! There were a lot of questions at once here. The question put by Lotta Finstorp from the beginning was about a case in Östersund where the background is not a matter of rules but that the Swedish Municipalities and County Council has made the assessment that the form they had for summer jobs in private companies was not compatible with municipal competence. There are always important rules, such as state aid rules and rules to ensure that competition is not distorted, which must be taken into account. I don't think that's the same thing as a rule problem, actually. Now there were lots of other issues here as well. Lotta Finstorp paints it as if it would be impossible to get a growing company in a country where, for example, the flight will pay its share of environmentally damaging activities with a flight tax of maybe SEK 80 per flight ticket. Then there wouldn't be any jobs, you get the picture of. Let me remind you that the Moderates have had, you might say, a little unlucky with their forecasts of how things are going to go with the jobs earlier. I remember that when you were in a position of government, every time Anders Borg had to revise the forecasts in the wrong direction. There were fewer jobs than previously forecast, there was higher unemployment than previously forecast and it became worse public finances than previously forecasted. This is what happened year after year. Then you came in opposition, and then you said: Who would like to employ in this country with the new, social democratic and environmental party government? Yes, quite a few obviously. We've never had as many vacancies as we have now. Employers are screaming for labor; there are a lot of people who want to hire. You said that if you restore the social security contribution for young people, youth unemployment, which was already at a high level, will increase. We have restored employers' contributions, and youth unemployment is now the lowest in 13 years. You said that restoring the ceiling in the unemployment fund to a decent level will increase unemployment. We have raised the ceiling in the unemployment fund, and unemployment is falling and we have fewer people than ever who are forced to live on the unemployment insurance system. So the Moderates have had bad luck in the past, you might say, with their forecasts. I predict that you will also have it with the forecast that Lotta Finstorp delivered here.
i-6634fc875becb13d-138	Mrs. Old President! No one, least of all the current Minister for Labour, could have escaped the fact that we had a historically severe recession in 2008 where Sweden did very well thanks to an alliance government and a finance minister who held the finances. Now it is booming, and in my municipality of residence 16.1 per cent are unemployed. I find that worrying. I apologise for the fact that there were many extra questions in my speech, but what I would like to come back to is the Employment Service and the allocation of funds and the hassle experienced by the administrators many times and about which they tell you when you are out talking to them. It also came up when we sat in the alliance government that they wanted a bigger pot with freer means. Not all people fit into these drain pipes, of course not. What is happening with regard to the allocation of funds and with regard to these pitfalls in which the various labour market policies are based? It would be good to have an answer to that. The Swedish National Audit Office clearly writes in its letter 2016/ 17:81 about managing a complicated tax system, and it is very severe criticism of the government's regulatory simplification work that is considered to be taking place at far too low a rate and may seem very inhibiting. Now it is booming, so people are now being hired, but soon we will be in recession, and then it is important that you do not have complicated regulations that hamper companies to hire people. In December 2016, the Swedish Business Council conducted a Skop survey on companies' views on regulatory improvement, because this is obviously linked to more people being able to get a job, and it showed, among other things, that companies' confidence in the government's regulatory work is very weak and that it feels that it is progressing too slowly. It also shows that if different regulations concerning the activities of companies were to change so that costs and risks would be substantially reduced, almost every two, 44 per cent of the companies surveyed would be better placed to increase sales or to increase the number of employees. This is really linked to labour market rules in different parts of the world. By not prioritising regulatory simplification more clearly, the government chooses increased taxes over employment effects on other parts. It is easy to say that it goes like the train today because we are in a boom. Does the Minister think that the simplification work is important for more companies to hire more, or is it just sneezing? The example in my question to the Minister, what is about Östersund's municipality and so on, primarily affects the young people who need a summer job. I don't know what it's like; I just reacted to what was written in the newspaper and that people wrote a letter about – that young people want summer jobs and that the trade union Kommunal is putting a stop to it. It is good that the Minister has found out the facts on the matter. I just wanted to flag up this headline, which I found extremely unhappy. The freer use of labour services has been debated many times in this House, particularly in the last parliamentary term, when the current Minister for Labour was very upset that the Employment Service could not more easily move money from various grants to others. I think it's the most important focus issue right now, so I'll stay there.
i-6634fc875becb13d-146	Mrs. Old President! I will answer the question straight away: yes, I think the simplification of the rules is something very important. It is also something we are actively working on. Yes, you should be able to move money from grants but of course within the framework of what is stated by the Riksdag's decision. In addition, of course, we cannot go, but the framework set up by Parliament must be respected. But within that framework, I think you should be able to do it, yes. To return to Östersundsfallet, Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils and Pacta in Employers' News, which ended in April last year, wrote the following regarding lending and leasing of holiday-related young people: The responsibility for health and safety at work resulting from the fact that municipalities/ county councils are the employers of the employed young people also disagrees with their being placed in establishments where the employer does not have supervision or control over the working environment. ..................................................... It is clear that with this type of communication to municipal employers, many municipalities are considering whether you can continue as you might have done and at least want to explore the ways forward. From what I understand, that is what is being done right now in Östersund municipality, and I think that is reasonable. It can't be called a rule violation. As far as employment aid is concerned, I have said earlier that it has proved more difficult than I thought to make it uniform and simplified if we are to respect the wishes of employers so that it becomes uniform and simple in both directions, not only from the state but also for those who are going to use employment aid. We are working on these proposals now and expect to be able to present them in connection with the budget proposal. I would also like to say that while we know that many people think that there is a great need for simplification in wage subsidies, we are receiving repeated reports of fraud involving wage subsidies. Unserious employers have been able to receive wage support for activities where they should not reasonably have received it. Of course, it's always a balance how to ensure a reasonable control of how tax funds are used – for example, it's obvious that tax funds should not go to organised criminal activities – but still make it easy for all serious employers. There is always a balance between them, and it is a matter of getting it right. Finally, Madam President-in-Office, I would like to say something about bad luck, which bourgeois governments have always had with regard to public finances. Every time we have had a bourgeois government, the state finances have been turned from surplus to deficit, and every time Social Democratically led governments have had to turn deficits into surpluses. So again this time – we have turned to surpluses and will go with surpluses every year during this parliamentary term. Despite the fact that we have the largest refugee reception, not to say the biggest refugee crisis, in the world and the largest refugee reception in any OECD country ever – despite that, we are turning our finances into a plus. You could say it's luck. This may be the case, but it must be said that the luck and bad luck of social democratic finance ministers and bourgeois finance ministers have a systematic approach to supernaturality.
i-6634fc875becb13d-153	Mrs. Old President! The words luck and bad luck have not been taken in my mouth, but it was the Minister for Labour who did. It is obvious that it is difficult to find a balance in labour market policy support measures between serious employers who are happy to receive people and those who are rogue. It will be a restraint for those who are serious because there must be a clear regulatory framework. It is, of course, a balancing act. It is also obvious that the parliamentary framework must be respected. But when I make study visits to the various employment services in the country – the Minister for Labour also does that – this is exactly what is often included. As a profession, you feel that you know what you are doing and think that you are in control of the situation. That is why we also want to have some freer means to help people who do not fit in with the various support measures still get into employment. I noted in a newspaper article a concept that social scientists have begun to use: the precariat. It is a growing class of mostly young people who go for years between substitute jobs, hourly jobs, part-time jobs, project jobs, all of this varying with periods of unemployment. It is often municipalities that are employers but do not find the rule support that you would need or whatever it may be due to. These are additional services that for some reason do not fit into the entity's business and so on. After all, it is we politicians who are employers in the municipalities, but we are not very good at this. Nor do we ask what it looks like with the number of substitutes and so on.
i-6634fc875becb13d-159	Mrs. Old President! The answer to the last question is that it is a question of political leadership. It was quite clear during the time of the previous government. Increasing numbers of precarious jobs were encouraged. Only the introduction of a fixed-term fixed-term fixed-term contract, where people can be employed on fixed-term contracts for no reason whatsoever, has meant that the power has been transferred from the employee to the employer. We have seen significant problems with precarious employment, such as the stacking of certain times on each other, and also with other systems in the labour market. This government is determined to create more secure employment. We are also doing this with, for example, the legislative changes that this Parliament has decided on, and I am bringing more such legislative proposals. We are going to debate one tomorrow about seconded workers. When it comes to employees in municipalities and county councils, SKL is an employer, and since we got a S-led majority in SKL, they have signed an agreement with Kommunal where permanent and full time employment should be the norm in the labour market.
i-6634fc875becb13d-163	Mrs. Old President! Mrs Roswall has asked me how I intend to work towards the introduction of a social pillar including labour market policy in the EU and how this is compatible with the Swedish model. I would like to start by saying that there is already considerable cooperation within the European Union on labour market policy. In the field of labour law and health and safety at work, for example, the EU can adopt minimum directives. Member States will then be able to maintain or introduce more ambitious rules than the Directive states. The government welcomes the fact that the EU can contribute to setting a common basic level while at the same time allowing those countries that want to go further. In the field of employment, cooperation consists mainly of common objectives, follow-up and exchange of good practice. This is not a question of legislative acts to be implemented by the Member States, but the Member States are pursuing common objectives and doing so on the basis of national conditions. I think it is a form of work that has served both Sweden and the EU well. The EU is now recovering from the deepest economic crisis in decades. The impact on employment and poverty in the EU has been significant. Although the situation has improved slightly in recent years, major challenges remain. The Commission states that the initiative for a European Pillar of Social Rights aims, inter alia, to improve performance in the employment and social fields. It is the government's view that a strong and social Europe is based on a synergy between growth, increased competitiveness and solidarity, where growth and social progress are mutually reinforcing. If the Commission's initiative is properly designed, it is my view that it can contribute to a more prosperous and inclusive Europe. I consulted the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on the government's position on the pillar last August. One of the positions endorsed by the government at the time was that the current allocation of competences between the EU and the Member States should be respected, as well as that the national labour market models should not be changed. With regard to the fundamental issues of division of competences, it is my view and that of the government that the order that is already in force should continue to be used to achieve the objectives of the pillar as well. Finally, I would also like to emphasise that the government in its response to the Commission's consultation on the pillar is very clear that Member States' labour market models, national wage-setting systems and the autonomy of the social partners must be respected. According to the Swedish model, it is the social partners who are responsible for wage formation, and that is something that the government strongly defends.
i-6634fc875becb13d-171	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It was last year that the European Commission and its author, former Finance Minister Allan Larsson, presented a proposal and a draft social pillar – a voluntary 20-point programme that will drive a better functioning and fairer labour market and a welfare system in the EU. Tomorrow, 26 April, the Commission will be presenting some sort of social pillar proposal, so this interpellation debate is perhaps a day too early from that point of view. But it is because there have been some ambiguities as to what the government thinks and what its agenda is. Since its inception, the government has made it clear that it is driving social issues as the main priority of EU work. It has been argued that it is a question of exchange of experience, not of new legislation. But here, in my view, the Minister for Labour has not been entirely convincing, and I am not the only one to think; the government's message has been perceived as double. Here in Sweden, in the Riksdag, the message has been that these are issues that lie within national competence, while the government within the EU is pushing for deeper cooperation. In her reply, the Minister for Labour mentioned that she had consulted the Committee on Employment. I would like to point out that in March of this year the government was given a clear mandate on the European Council, which stated that employment and social policy are the competence of the Member States. At that meeting, the Prime Minister was asked a number of questions about this, partly on the basis of the decree signed by the Minister for Employment, and also on the ambiguities regarding the agenda for the Gothenburg Summit this autumn. However, at the EU Board and subsequent reporting, and also in the Minister's response here today, it has become clear – and I think that is good – that these issues are the responsibility of the Member States. It must be respected, and the Swedish model must be defended. The Prime Minister was very clear when he recently said that this does not mean that Brussels should suddenly be allowed to make a lot of decisions about our labour market policy. Very well so far, but I would like to put a question to the Minister for Labour on the basis of the decree she has signed anyway. It states, among other things, that we must guarantee equal treatment and compensation for all workers. We also need to improve the coordination of social security systems so that all workers can retain their social coverage as part of their mobility in another Member State and so that social contributions are related to the right place. It also says about making the labour market accessible to all and socially fair and about a lot more things. I wonder whether the Minister seriously believes that, in order to achieve all of this, some kind of legislation is not required at European level. My second question is what the government should do to ensure that the social pillar does not lead to the transfer of power from Sweden to the EU.
i-6634fc875becb13d-178	Mrs. Old President! It is with interest that I have followed the attempts of the Moderates to see something mysterious in the government's work for upward convergence of social conditions. I think it goes without saying that we want to see improvements in people's living conditions in the European Union. That is surely one of the important reasons why we are members: it is intended to promote economic growth, mobility and cooperation and to benefit all citizens so that we gain better well-being and prosperity in our countries. Of course, this is mainly done by more people getting into work. I find it hard to understand what's so mysterious about this. Deeper cooperation within the European Union is in no way in contradiction to the maintenance of national sovereignty on matters where we already have such a right today. The government is fighting hard to preserve it, not least in terms of wage formation and labour market policy. There is already enhanced cooperation already underway, for example with regard to the European Semester and Europe 2020. Recommendations are distributed to the countries, and the countries respond in different ways to the challenges they face. I welcome whether we can have a greater focus, which is not only about housing bubbles but also about people's living conditions and, for example, the conditions on the labour market. We recently had an interpellation debate on the problem of a growing precariat, which Lotta Finstorp raised. We see in several EU countries that the division of labour markets has increased and that many people are working under very poor conditions. It is therefore important to ensure that the minimum wages are maintained at a sufficiently high level to ensure a good standard of living. This really should not happen at European level. The government has also worked hard to ensure that the proposals to be presented tomorrow do not include a transfer of competence to the Commission in relation to the Member States as regards the right to decide on these issues. We will see what the Commission is presenting tomorrow, but that is what the government has been pushing. For example, the government has strongly urged that there should be no common, legislative minimum wage and that wage formation issues should be dealt with in the way each country decides. In our country, it is the social partners who set salaries, and that is not something we intend to back off from, but something that we strongly defend. I think it is extremely important not to paint it as an improvement in the living conditions of ordinary people that is tantamount to supranational decisions or a transfer of power to European level. On the contrary, we have everything to gain from deepening cooperation between the Member States within the framework of the European Union. I am concerned that this cooperation is not as good as it should be on many issues that could actually benefit the citizens. One example is women's participation in the labour force, where we see significant potential if more women were in the labour force. It would benefit growth throughout the EU and thus also benefit Sweden. Here, Sweden, with our good experiences, has a lot to teach to other countries.
i-6634fc875becb13d-186	Mrs. Old President! It's nothing mysterious, but it's been unclear what the message is. It feels like there is a message at home in Sweden and another when the government is working on these issues within the EU. Issues relating to employment and social policy are fundamental to all Member States; that is what you say to the Minister in his reply, and I agree with that. However, it must be clearer that these issues are the competence of the Member States. My concern is that it is going the wrong way to pursue social issues and social pillars. After all, we agree on a number of things, but the starting point is that it is a matter of national competence. I see it as a risk rather than, as the Minister seems to do, an advantage to pursue these issues at European level. As I said, the government has been given a clear mandate from the EU Board to lift the Swedish position – I think that was a reassuring message from the Minister today. At the same time, I think that the Minister has clearly stated in the decree that she strongly wants to promote the introduction of the social pillar. I find this a little remarkable, and I think the Minister is missing some of my point. As the EU now faces such major challenges, which is also highlighted in its response, I find it strange that it is investing in a new supranational project rather than focusing on what is Europe's benefits. I think the opposite is true. What the government is going to push in the current situation of the EU is for the EU to focus on the issues on which we need cooperation, such as the issue of migration. We should not invest in new tasks but focus on core tasks. The conclusion drawn by the Commission, as the Minister also states in the reply, is that a social pillar should lead to improved results. But this is the wrong way to go precisely in the current situation of the European Union. However, I would like to say that the Minister's second speech is reassuring in terms of what we may see tomorrow. I have received some answers, but I would still like to get some further meat on the government's agenda of implementing a social pillar.
i-6634fc875becb13d-194	Mrs. Old President! I listened to the debate here. Of course, we want European citizens to have good social conditions and a good life situation. However, I do not believe that a social protocol or a social pillar is the solution. What it is about is that we make sure that people have a job to go to, that they have a salary and that they get to keep much of their salary. After all, it is through work that we build our prosperity, our growth and our prosperity. That is why one of the fundamental elements of the EU is precisely to promote openness, freedom and free trade. My impression is that the government and Ylva Johansson are in favour of the EU having free trade agreements and that we should stand up for freedom and transparency in terms of the movement of goods, services, capital and other things, not least for people, across our borders in the internal market. At the same time, we are seeing how Socialist Members of the European Parliament are acting. The former Minister Marita Marita, together with Anna Hedh, did not vote for the FTA with Canada recently, which would of course be important for jobs in both Canada and the EU and not least for jobs in Sweden. We can also look at the votes and work to bring about the EU-US Free Trade Agreement, T TIP. Certainly the American President is a big problem, but how will the Minister ensure how Social Democrats also in other parliaments where Sweden is represented will stand up for free trade and push for us to get these agreements, which in turn lead to more jobs also in Sweden and thus also to a strengthened social situation for our residents?
i-6634fc875becb13d-196	Mrs. Old President! Let me just remind you that the Interpellation Institute is there for Members of Parliament to be able to hold the government accountable for the government's actions. This is what I'm answering. I welcome a social pillar. Tomorrow we will see how it will get out, and then we will have to take a stand on it. I believe, however, that it is unfortunate to mark the similarity between social pillars and increased supranationality. On the contrary, I believe that significant progress can be achieved in the social field, which includes the labour market area, without new supranationality. Existing instruments can be used. Of course, some supranational instruments already exist – we already have the possibility of some minimum legislation in parts of the area today – and they should be used to gradually raise the minimum level. It must also be ensured that countries that want to go further can do so. I think it would be unfortunate and in danger of leading a very wrong line if we were to argue that any improvement in the living conditions of ordinary people would be tantamount to an increase in supranationality. Now I'm not saying that Jessika Roswall is saying this, but I think it's important to make a mark here. Substantial successes can be achieved, not to say greater successes, but new supranationality. Jobs – including Swedish jobs – depend entirely on developments in the EU. The EU is by far our largest and most important export market. We are completely dependent on the economie development of the EU and the e urozone. That's it. It is clear that when there have been several years of recession and increased gaps in these countries, as well as a very weak development of employment in several countries, this also has a negative impact on the Swedish economy. Therefore, it is good, also from a unilateral Swedish perspective, with a development that allows us to raise that standard. To Christian Holm Barenfeld I would like to say that the Moderates have an unfortunate history of seeing a contradiction between increased employment and social progress. On the contrary, your party has often seen it as if increasing social gaps would lead to more jobs. However, the actual experience of the Swedish model is exactly the opposite. We see that well-developed childcare facilities and high quality schools contribute to increased employment and higher quality jobs. We see that good security systems contribute to increased mobility, increased purchasing power and a good development of employment. We see that good parental leave legislation contributes to a high level of employment, not least among women. We see that active labour market policies contribute to higher employment. These are precisely the issues that have now also come up on the European agenda with the initiative on a social pillar, and I welcome that. Our experience is that it is a way of really getting a win-win situation, where we can strengthen both social rights and social conditions for people, while contributing to increased employment, which is, of course, the prerequisite for financing further steps in the development of welfare and prosperity in society.
i-6634fc875becb13d-201	Mrs. Old President! Once again, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Thank you for the debate, I should also say. There is no mystery in this, but it is an honest and genuine concern. I think there has been a double message from government representatives in the debate. Nevertheless, it is reassuring that the government has reportedly worked to retain these decisions as national competence. This is my one objection. The second objection is that I think that in the situation in which the European Union is in – on the one hand, the economic crisis it has had for several years, and, on the other, the divorce with the United Kingdom, which it is about to begin – should focus on the right things. I am not sure that I share the view of the Minister for Employment that these are the issues to be pursued. I do not really have much more to add to this debate. It was good to bring this up and hear that the government has worked the right way here. In conclusion, however, I would like to ask a question. I know that there are some instruments already today, and we think that is a good thing. Among other things, the Minister mentioned minimum legislation. Why are these not sufficient instruments?
i-6634fc875becb13d-205	Mrs. Old President! When something does not work, it is easy to say that it is the fault of the previous government and, above all, of the Moderates. According to Ylva Johansson, the Moderates obviously do not want people to have security and have a good time. That is, of course, wrong. That is also why during the reign we made sure that jobs grew, that competitiveness was strengthened and that Sweden was strong in the huge financial crisis that hit the world. We also made sure that people kept more of the money they earned, which of course increases their ability to influence. With Ylva Johansson's retorik, I, for my part, could say that there is not a single crown in a wage earner's wallet that a social democrat could not take to strengthen the social world. I think it is unfortunate if we have such a discussion. This is, of course, about the social protocol. Like my colleague, Mrs Roswall, I see a concern for increased supranationality, but I am also pleased that the Minister is so clearly saying that he does not want to see any increased supranationality and any transfer of power in this area to the European Union. Much of this discussion is going on in the European Union, not least given that we have seen Brexit and everything that has happened since the financial crisis. I believe that we should focus more on what is at the heart of the European Union than on ensuring that the European Union becomes more vulgar and grows and that more power is transferred. On the red side of the EU front, and also on our side among some Member States and parties, there is this tendency, so I hope it is true that the government in Sweden stands up for more power in these areas also not to be transferred to the EU.
i-6634fc875becb13d-210	Mrs. Old President! I have to correct Christian Holm Barenfeld. This debate does not concern a social protocol. This debate concerns a social pillar. That's two completely different things. The Commission has not announced a proposal for a social protocol. I do not think that will happen in the near future either. We are now discussing a social pillar, on which the Commission will publish proposals tomorrow. Then we'll find out. The government has acted on the mandate I received from the EU Board and the Labour Market Committee. It's about what's being said, too. We do not want to change the allocation of mandates, but the starting point is that current powers should be preserved. And we attach particular importance to respecting and maintaining our labour market model. Jessika Roswall asks: Why are existing instruments not enough? Yes, it is also about how to use existing instruments, I would say, and how to actually achieve results. I'm not sure there's even a need for new supranational instruments– I don't think so. On the other hand, I believe that another political commitment is needed in order to actually achieve results. We will now see what the Commission will propose, but in my world it is like this: when it comes to achieving improvements, it can be about action at European level, where it is possible to do certain things. It is a question of action at national level, where it is possible and where the countries have their own responsibilities. But it is also a question of the social partners having a great responsibility, and should have a great responsibility, to achieve this. To Christian Holm Barenfeld I would like to say that the Swedish model is delivering money in its wallet. We have had real wage increases for 20 years, thanks to the Swedish model. Many of the parties, and the big ones, have just signed three-year very responsible agreements that also give more money in their wallets and low-wage ventures. The Swedish model delivers more money in the wallet. Mrs. Old President! Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Roswall for the debate and welcome her to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. I look forward to more debates.
i-6634fc875becb13d-216	Mrs. Old President! Katarina Brännström has asked me how I see the development that fewer people get an internship within the framework of Arbetsförmedlingen's guarantees now than in 2014 and what measures I intend to take in this regard. Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me how I see the development that fewer people receive support from the Public Employment Service to start their own business now compared to 2014 and what measures I intend to take in this regard. Active labour market policies mean that job seekers should be given access to measures that strengthen their job opportunities. Depending on the labour market situation and individual conditions, Arbetsförmedlingen will assess which measures are most appropriate. This may include support and matching, placement, motivation for regular studies, subsidised employment or support for the start-up of business. Since access, the government has re-established labour market policies, focusing on results rather than on detailed management. In order to contribute to a more effective labour market policy, the government has simplified and clarified the labour market acquis and improved opportunities for local cooperation. The Government has made it possible for Arbetsförmedlingen to give former participants in phase 3 access to the Swedish Public Employment Service's entire range of interventions – this to offer more people effective interventions and to leave unemployment for work or studies. It is also important to take advantage of the skills and experience of entrepreneurs who have come as refugees to Sweden by offering different types of support to entrepreneurship. The employment agency's support for the start-up of business activities is a good instrument, and last year the government also reduced the age limit for support for the start-up of business activities to 18 years. On behalf of the Government, the Swedish Agency for Growth is also carrying out an investment in newly arrived entrepreneurship in Sweden. Since the turn of the government, employment has increased sharply, unemployment has decreased and the number of people enrolled in the job and development guarantee has fallen. Not least, the trend is positive in terms of the job guarantee for young people, with fewer and fewer enrolled. The result of the start-up assignment has improved, despite the large increase in the number of enrolled participants. But I'm not happy. I take seriously the fact that fewer people in the guarantees participate in activities. I believe that Arbetsförmedlingen can better and that more jobseekers can take part in meaningful activities, such as internships or support to start their own business, which strengthen their job opportunities. The goal of employment policy is not a certain number of people in action – the goal is more in jobs.
i-6634fc875becb13d-222	Mrs. Old President! I would like to thank the Government for its answer, but I wonder whether Ylva Johansson himself is satisfied with the answer. It doesn't say anything about what I'm asking. The question was what the Minister intends to do about the fact that fewer people today receive traineeships through the Employment Service than in 2014. As Ylva Johansson says in her reply, an active labour market policy will provide job seekers with opportunities to help them to work. But the government's labour market policy does not. In some cases it is actually the opposite. It is the case that those who today get jobs get it despite the government's policy, not thanks to it. They get it on their own merits, and they get it mainly because we have a long and substantial boom. The government's passivity in relation to a large group that is getting further and further away from a job, the foreign born, is strange. Nothing new comes from the government here. Instead, it'll be a wish list of what it should be like, but it's not like that. The statement that the policy has been redesigned with a focus on results and not on detail management is particularly strange. That sentence has been included in all the answers we have heard earlier here today. The results of the government's employment policy are rather shaky. They had the target of 5,000 state preparedness jobs. According to the media, it's only 12 – I don't know if that's true. Trainee jobs would be 32,000. According to the statistics, there are over 400 today. The additional services would be 31 000 – there are almost 3 000 jobs. It is therefore about 3 200 jobs that are the result of the employment policy that the government has presented, where 68 000 jobs were promised. Sweden is worse off now in EU employment statistics than it was when the government promised the EU's lowest unemployment rate. 14 countries are actually better than Sweden. Ylva Johansson takes the answer to me up the kicked-out participants in phase 3. I might think it's bravely done. Here the Minister also says how it should be and how it is possibly supposed to be. But it's not like that. Many thousands now sit at home at the kitchen table and feel bad because they have nothing to do and are waiting for something to happen. It is a cruel treatment of people who are already severely exposed. The dismantling of Phase 3 is a major failure for the government, but it is often a disaster for the individual. I wonder if the Government knows what the 38 000 who have been phased out are doing now. She probably doesn't. I can tell you that many of the organisers with whom I have spoken, including social enterprises and organisations, have told me about unhappy people who have gone home without notice or any other employment. In fact, the Public Employment Service is failing most of it. It is particularly serious when job creation fails. Fewer and fewer people get an internship. Fewer and fewer people receive the support they are entitled to. More and more people end up in the back of the line of work. Many of them are stuck in unemployment and hopelessness. No, I did not receive a good answer from the Minister to the question of what the government intends to do to help job seekers to practice and similar efforts. You are hiding behind a boom and that Sweden is doing well. But any real policy for jobs I haven't seen or heard anything about.
i-EH2Uw4jupMMLHgCv9922sd	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Ylva Johansson, for the answer! The labour market is becoming increasingly two-way. Most people have relatively easy access to jobs, but at the same time the group that is out of work is growing for a long time. For this group, the roads to work need to be increased. The Employment Service's job and development guarantee and job guarantee for young people give job seekers the opportunity to get help to start their own business, which is also an important way into work. It is important that there are many ways into the labour market, and setting up a business is, as I said, one that can suit some. Unfortunately, figures from Arbetsförmedlingen show that the number of people who have benefited from this support is decreasing – from just under 4,400 in 2014 to nearly 2,900 in 2016. That is why I have written this interpellation and want to know more about how the Minister views developments that there are fewer people receiving support today compared to 2014 and what measures the Minister intends to take. It is, of course, desirable that the employment mediation is made less accessible and that fewer people need to benefit from its various support – if this is due to the fact that there are few unemployed and the need is low. But that's not really what it looks like. Sweden is doing well. That is what we say in the debates. Jobs are getting more. Unemployment is lower. That's it. We are in a boom, and those with qualifications are getting a lot of work. Those who have been educated and who have made it through school and received grades get to a large extent jobs. At the same time, we are seeing the emergence of a new, great alienation. More and more people are moving further and further away from the regular labour market. Here progress is going in the wrong direction, and unfortunately the government lacks the tools and proposals to deal with this. Mrs. Old President! The Social Democrats and Ylva Johansson were clear about the election to promise reforms and results. On the other hand, the delivery has been somewhat more modest, if you are to be kind and diplomatic. As my colleague Katarina Brännström mentioned, Ylva Johansson's response to our interpellations contains quite a lot of words. It is about the same answer given to all interpellations, almost flosskeler. Since access to the labour market, the government has re-established labour market policies, focusing on results rather than on detailed management. ..................................................... What are the results? Well, out of the 32,000 promised trainee jobs, it's 436. That would be 20,000 extra jobs, and it has become 2 765. When it comes to the fast track for new arrivals in the establishment, which is basically good for those who have education or special skills, there is a very small percentage that is involved. More recently, 5,000 state emergency jobs have been promised. In a previous debate with another colleague, it came to the conclusion that there were no recent figures. But recent figures from March 2017, if I understand it correctly, is that of these 5 000, the government has managed to deliver twelve, of which five or six apparently in my hometown of Karlstad at Arbetsförmedlingen. The government's employment target on the EU's lowest unemployment seems more unlikely today than when it was launched, and even then, few outside the government believed in it at all. The employment phase would also be phased out. It was a promise, and it has begun. The problem is that the people who are now being taken out of the employment phase and who would get the promised jobs in the form of additional services and training have not received it, but have been passed on and sitting at home without getting these jobs. How does Ylva Johansson reason? Is there a plan for government reform to start delivering? How can more people get into employment, and how can more people take the step of starting their own business with the help of Arbetsförmedlingen?
i-6634fc875becb13d-244	Mrs. Old President! First of all, let me say that it is unacceptable if people are left in passivity or without labour market policy intervention for a long time. We had a debate on this earlier, and it is one of the important issues in my dialogue with Arbetsförmedlingen to ensure that this is not the case. When you listen to the moderate representatives here, you get an understanding of the moderate view of a job policy, namely as many as possible in a labour market policy measure. That is the job policy. That is how you assess employment policy, and if you do not have enough in a labour market policy measure, employment policy has not succeeded. That is one way of assessing politics. Another way is to see that the aim of employment policy is to create jobs and that as many people as possible will get those jobs. If you have that view, the government's policy has been very successful. We have very high economic growth. We have a high employment rate rising from this record level. Every time we have presented a new forecast, we have been able to revise the forecast in the right direction, unlike Anders Borg, who always had to revise it in the wrong direction. Better economy, better employment, falling unemployment! This is because we have very high investments. In particular, the private sector is making huge investments, and it is also true that the majority of the new jobs created have come in the private sector. It is a receipt that the government has a policy that makes companies want to invest in Sweden. There are also other assessors. I think it was a representative of the Redit evaluation institute Moody's who for some time spoke out and said that the Swedish Government is basically doing everything right when it comes to creating economic growth. Perhaps that is to be taken into account; there are certainly things we can do better, but let us still see that the most important thing in a job policy is to create real jobs. Labour market policy has an important role to play, no doubt, but it will never be the most important building block of a job policy, nor is it for this government. However, the formulation of labour market policies is very important. Christian Holm Barenfeld said that it is clear that those who have attended upper secondary school and received grades easily get jobs. Yes, it should be. But it wasn't like that when you ruled. Then we had so high youth unemployment that we received EU support to combat it. At that time we had high youth unemployment among young people who had passed high school, and that was the reason why we in opposition proposed introducing trainee jobs aimed at the group with upper secondary skills. Fortunately, let us say, these jobs are no longer needed, at least not to the extent that we predicted under the previous government, in other words when we were in opposition, because young people have been given other jobs instead and do not need to be in a labour market policy measure, which is excellent. Mrs. Old President! I also think it is important to say this: there is a growing group that is unemployed for a long time, because we have such a group, and that is the new arrivals. When you are new arrivals and are registered at Arbetsförmedlingen you have an establishment plan for normally 24 months. After six months they are classified as long-term unemployed in the official statistics. This means that people under their two-year establishment plan will be classified as long-term unemployed. However, I think that there are quite few people who believe that six months would be enough for a newcomer to enter the labour market. I don't want us to make it in two years.
i-6634fc875becb13d-254	Mrs. Old President! Sweden is doing well. It's true, and we're all happy about that. But there are also several hundred thousand that are definitely not going well. 362 200 unemployed equals 6.8 per cent. Of them, 122 000 are young people. That's 20% unemployment. This is something that should worry any minister. Then the Minister for Labour constantly compares with what it was like with the Alliance a number of years ago. I sometimes feel that I have to explain what it was like, because it seems to have gone completely by Ylva Johansson. In 2006, we took over a labour market in deep crisis. We took over a sick leave disaster. We took over a society where people were prescribed for early retirement. Then came the financial crisis in 2008, 2009, 2010 and also in 2011 – just as an enlightenment, Ylva Johansson! It doesn't seem fair to compare with what it's like today. The Minister says that it is clear that it should be real jobs and not labour market measures, and the Minister also tells us how the Moderates view employment policy, namely that it is equal to labour market measures. But that's the last thing we've ever said, so it was absolutely not true. If the government wants real, new jobs, why do they put forward all these strange proposals in the form of trainee jobs, rescue jobs and extra services? It would be a complete waste of time. Why do you do that? The Prime Minister has done a large number of how many new jobs would be created every time he has talked about this. It is not true that it is the government's policy that has created some new jobs, but it is a long boom. I think the Minister should mention it at some point. You're hiding behind the boom. The policy you yourself have put forward has not succeeded anywhere. It is a matter of a few thousand jobs at a time when you have promised 80 000 – 90 000 jobs. It's weird to hit your chest for that. The sad thing is that the government is not doing anything active to help those people who are outside the labour market and who have a long way to get a real job. We know that not everyone needs education, but they may need to practice or learn how Swedish working conditions work and get to show off. What's the government doing? The report from Arbetsförmedlingen and the annual report show that there is now less access to internships. It is a pity because internships lead to more jobs. A press release from December shows that Arbetsförmedlingen will take over the work with internships from the Migration Agency. These are a number of thousand new places over a period of several years. How'd it go? I do not think it is a successful measure so far, but we are barely five months into this year. The Employment Service also sends out press releases that talk about an increasingly two-way labour market. Would it not be nice, then, if the government could put forward proposals for specific measures? A chain of efforts is needed for these people to get into work. Practice has proved to be much better than labour market training. It would be interesting to hear a small comment about what the government is actually thinking about with regard to the large group of people.
i-6634fc875becb13d-263	Mrs. Old President! There will be a lot of talk about what the Moderates want and do not want when we discuss employment policy with the Minister for Labour. It is good and natural because it is the Moderates who have suggestions for how there will be more jobs and how the alienation that is emerging will be dealt with. Passivity is unacceptable, says Ylva Johansson. I agree. That is why it is so serious that it is announced that the employment phase, phase 3 in the people's mouth, will end. Instead of being led into extra service, education or other meaningful employment, you should be relegated to inaction at home on the couch and no support. A moderate policy for more jobs means that the real jobs will be more, that is, the jobs that are emerging in our companies and industries around Sweden. Ylva Johansson wants to look at the year of the alliance government when there was a financial crisis. I believe, like my colleague Katarina Brännström, that it is self-evident that a newly trained youth, a newcomer with good education or someone else who finds it more difficult to enter the labour market in the event of a major recession and a global financial crisis will have even higher thresholds to overcome. This means that companies are doing worse and giving notice of staff. Then it is those with the shortest experience or with other high thresholds into the labour market who have to iron their foot first. Now there is a boom, and then more are hired. If you're hired, you have a better chance. It must also be made clear in the context of the Social Democracy. We had a discussion about extra services. Now I've been confused. In the discussion with my colleague Lotta Finstorp, extra services were discussed as real jobs, and now they are called action. How does the minister view them? The question I asked in my interpellation is unanswered. I based it on the fact that fewer and fewer people today are being supported by the Employment Service to start their own business. But it's not that much less registered at Arbetsförmedlingen. It's not over for the Arbetsförmedlingen. It would have been gratifying, but that is not the case. Those who have a short way into the labour market are well off and have to a large extent jobs, but those with high thresholds have a long way into the labour market. There are increasing numbers of them, and the road is getting longer and longer. The government obviously lacks, given the answers we get to our interpellations, total solutions, suggestions and ideas on how to deal with the problems. It would be interesting to hear concrete descriptions, not that the government is looking at, considering or developing action plans. What clear message does the government send to those who are excluded, have no work today and who may not have had a job for a long time? How are they gonna get a job? The Moderates have presented a wide range of proposals. The government won't.
i-6634fc875becb13d-271	Mrs. Old President! Support for the start-up of business is important. The information I have– I do not know what the information Christian Holm Barenfeld has – is that the support is increasing. An increased number receives support for the start-up of economic activities, and the number should increase further, not least in view of the lowering of the age limit. But we have also changed the policy. Under the previous government, support was given to those furthest from the labour market. That's wrong. Support should be given to those who have a chance to start their own business. There must be an assessment that the effort goes to those who have a reasonable chance of succeeding in starting a new business. Of course, it takes a little longer to judge who they are, but now we see that the number is increasing. I expect that the number will continue to increase. Not least, we must take advantage of the large group of newcomers who have experience in conducting their own business. It is an enormous waste if we do not take advantage of the entrepreneurial spirit, the skills and experience of the newcomers, who can become important entrepreneurs in Sweden. There's more to do. The government allocated money in the spring bill a year ago in particular to support so-called fast track for newly arrived entrepreneurs. We increased the resources in the budget bill last autumn, and there are now 22 different tracks that the Swedish Agency for Growth is responsible for. This is an area where there is great potential to do more. We should do the same. Katarina Brännström said that when the bourgeoisie took over in 2006, everything was miserable. It was a situation of large economic surpluses, with strong employment and relatively low unemployment. Only now are we back again, after your years, at a higher employment rate and unemployment moving downwards and a positive state of public finances. You invested in unfunded tax cuts, and that has been devastating for Swedish competitiveness. Today we are paying a price with many people who do not have the right skills for the job vacancies. You should have invested in education instead of spending money on tax cuts. It would have been a wiser job policy. Labour market policy and wage support are important elements of employment policy, but they are not the bulk of employment policy. The main part of employment policy is that people can get a job thanks to a good business cycle and that the right things are done in the business cycle. We invest resources to municipalities and county councils so that they can hire more people in welfare. We are investing resources in housing, which is extremely important for employment, for establishment and for young people to move away from home. We are investing in a new export strategy, so that we can benefit and facilitate for the many important and successful export companies that exist in Sweden. We are investing in a new industrialisation strategy to modernise Swedish industry. We are investing in a major knowledge boost to build the skills needed. We are investing in tax relief for the small companies that are hiring for the first time. They are the most important elements of employment policy. However, specific measures are also needed for those who are further away and find it more difficult to enter the labour market than others. Therefore, we invest in internships, work training, regular and labour market education and folk high schools. We invest in extra services and other employment with wage support, and we invest in a more efficient and flexible start-up assignment. This will continue to be done by the government, because this requires further flexibility and, I believe, more measures. There is talk of the fact that the group that is far from the labour market is growing. Let's be honest and say what it's all about: It's about new arrivals in Sweden. Yes, they are part of the labour market because they are new here, but do not describe them as people without resources.
i-6634fc875becb13d-280	Madam President, I would like How we describe people we can always discuss. The question is well what we are doing for these people, for whom we and, above all, the government are responsible, and who stand and trample on the Public Employment Service and do not receive the support to which they are entitled. It's much more serious. The number of unemployed belonging to a vulnerable group has increased by more than 100,000. This should be the main concern of the Public Employment Service. This should be Ylva Johansson's biggest concern. These are people over 55, those with disabilities and, above all, non-European immigrants.
i-6634fc875becb13d-283	We have a job agency that can't do its job. We have discussed this in this House many times. But the minister seems quite pleased. It is true that an investigation was set up, but I rarely hear anything other than that the Swedish Public Employment Service will be able to meet its commitments. But you don't. When I hear Ylva Johansson talking about moderate tax cuts, I want to turn over the steak and say: Despite the highest tax increases in modern times, which this government has managed to do in two years, the government has received suggestions on how to cope with the task of getting unemployed in jobs. Apparently, tax increases are not enough. What are you gonna do? During our reign, 300 000 people got jobs despite the crisis I described in my previous speech. I am proud of that; I am not ashamed of it at all. I think Ylva Johansson should take the tone down and be a little humble for the enormous challenges facing Sweden. Above all, she should bear in mind that these people should be given the help they are entitled to. Thank you for the debate. I think we will come back to this.
i-6634fc875becb13d-288	Madam President, I would like My question was basically about those who receive support from the Employment Service to start a business. The figures I have from Arbetsförmedlingen show that 4,400 people received this support in 2014 and 2,900 received it in 2016. If these numbers are correct, I find it difficult to see that 2,900 are more than 4,400. For me, it's 1,500 less. Ylva Johansson says that the Alliance and the Moderates cut money on tax cuts. I think that Ylva Johansson next time she meets a assistant nurse, who got almost a thousand more in her wallet, a police officer, a teacher, a carpenter or someone else to say that it was money that the Alliance irresponsibly cut off on them. What we did was make sure people kept more of what they earned while they were working. We strengthened their economy so that they could stand on their own feet. At the same time, the money actually increased to welfare. Moreover, the number of jobs increased, even though there was a burning financial crisis. Let's have some moderation. It's a matter of being accurate with facts. In addition, Ylva Johansson and her party were against every job tax deduction, which was the major tax cuts, but accepted every one of them afterwards. That was wise, because it would have punished many of those who work if the government changed this. Back to the question: How are we to ensure that those who are far from the labour market and who are supported by the Public Employment Service also receive support and help to a greater extent to start their own businesses?
i-6634fc875becb13d-295	Madam President, I would like It is important that more people receive support to start their own business. But it is also urgent that people who are reasonably well placed to succeed in starting their own business should be able to do so. It is not just the speech itself that goes to the right people that is important. I see a great potential among the new arrivals. We know that many people have a background as entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, and we should make better use of this expertise and experience than we have done so far. I am therefore closely following the work that the Swedish Agency for Growth is doing, in addition to the Swedish Public Employment Service's efforts, in order for more people to be able to benefit from this. I have completely different figures than Christian Holm Barenfeld on how many have received support for 2016. My number is 4,360 when it comes to decisions for 2016. But let us look at it and come back to the right figure for the number of decisions taken. Madam President, I would like It is exciting to hear that both Katarina Brännström and Christian Holm Barenfeld are so proud of the old government's policy. It must be a minority within the Moderates who are proud of it, but it's funny that someone is. It was a policy that turned a large surplus of public finances into a large deficit, while unemployment increased and employment decreased. Youth unemployment was so high that Sweden received EU support. Now we have turned this around. Sweden is doing better. Employment is increasing, growth is high and unemployment is falling. However, more needs to be done, especially for those who are newcomers and others who are far removed from the labour market. The government will.
i-6634fc875becb13d-302	Madam President, I would like Christian Barenfeld has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that foreign-born women have the same opportunities for integration as men. Erik Andersson has asked me what measures or initiatives I intend to take in view of what has emerged about women being disadvantaged in their establishment. The Government's gender equality objective is that women and men should have the same power to shape society and their own lives. An intermediate objective is economic equality. Women and men must have the same opportunities and conditions in terms of paid work that give economic independence for the rest of their lives. In order to achieve the gender equality policy objective, unemployment among foreign-born women needs to be reduced and employment increased. This is a priority for the government. The Government has therefore changed the Swedish Public Employment Service's instructions. The instructions now state that the agency's activities should be designed to promote diversity and gender equality and to combat discrimination in working life and gender segregation in the labour market. The Government has also commissioned Arbetsförmedlingen to develop an action plan to integrate gender equality into its activities and an action plan to reduce unemployment among women born abroad. Both Action Plans run until 2018. I am closely following the implementation of the action plans. In order to increase gender equality in the labour market, the government has introduced a third reserved month for each parent in parental insurance and abolished the custody allowance. The Government has also proposed restrictions on parental benefit for parents who come to Sweden with children. The large gender gaps in participation in operations and transition to work within the establishment mission are not acceptable. It is important that the proportion of women taking part in labour market activities and transitions to work is increased and that women and men are given equal opportunities for entry into the labour market and social life. Arbetsförmedlingen's work to develop its way of working within the establishment assignment is intended to promote the quality and labour market link in the establishment plans. It is important that this development work contributes to greater equivalence and effectiveness in the actions involving both women and men.
i-6634fc875becb13d-311	Madam President, I would like Participation in the labour market for foreign born is far too low in our country. This applies to both women and men. However, the main integration challenge is to increase the participation of foreign-born women in the labour market, and this should be reflected in a responsible government policy. In a recent review, the Swedish Women's Lobby shows that women are disadvantaged in all parts of the establishment and that the differences in subsidised employment are particularly great. Less than one in four entry and start-up jobs went to a woman last year. This is, of course, substandard from both the point of view of integration and gender equality. The answer to this interpellation says very little about concrete measures. It is said most of all that it is a priority, that action plans should be drawn up and a third month in parental insurance. But I do not think any of these solutions are solutions to the problem that so few women with foreign background have work in Sweden. At the same time, the government has reduced the successful RUT deduction. It's slowing down. We know that this has led to many new jobs for women as well as those born abroad, not least for women born abroad. There are also many women who have chosen to start a business in that industry. This is precisely why I put the question to Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson: what measures does the Minister intend to take to ensure that foreign born women have the same opportunities as men to be integrated? How will this be strengthened? And in what way does the Minister want to do that, in concrete terms? How will jobs become more common? And how are we to ensure that women who are outside the labour market today and who are born abroad also enter the labour market? We Moderates are also proposing a series of measures here. Our employment policy in general is focused on more jobs. We have a boom, as we have talked about in every interpellation debate here. This leads to more jobs being generated. However, when the current government presents its budgets, it is not just us moderates or interest groups from elsewhere who say that the government's budget with increased tax pressure does not contribute to more jobs. Most investigators also show that the government's budget, compared to what it used to be, will lead to fewer jobs. Of course, it's the same here. The one with extra high thresholds is the one who gets hit first. We want to reinforce the RUT deduction. In the migration agreement, however, we managed to press for a little improvement on what the government wants, and even more on what the government's cooperation party, the Left Party, wants. According to them, the RUT deduction would not exist at all. We have also said that we want to introduce an education obligation, which means that all newcomers in Sweden will receive the education; it applies to both men and women. And we want first-time jobs. We are clear with a wide range of suggestions on how we want to manage and try to find solutions for integration. It's not easy. And it will take a lot. We will certainly come back with even more proposals. However, we still have concrete proposals.
i-6634fc875becb13d-322	Madam President, I would like They say we have a feminist government. At the same time, the Swedish Women's Lobby has carried out a review showing that women are disadvantaged in parts of the establishment and that the differences in subsidised employment are particularly great. Women also take part in fewer vocational training, validation efforts and fast track, and they go on to a lower extent to post-graduate work.
i-6634fc875becb13d-324	The Minister says in his reply that it is unacceptable and that it should be followed closely. I could thank you for that answer, and we will end the debate here. But the Minister is so happy with the debate today that I intend to continue. Why is it a problem that women are disadvantaged in their establishment? Well, Sweden has had problems integrating new arrivals into the labour market for a long time. We are currently on a boom– I know that the Minister will soon point out that the Alliance has been in power for eight years; the Minister usually does. Let me therefore be clear and anticipate the Government with an answer. We had a financial crisis earlier. But Sweden did much better than many other countries. Over 300,000 new jobs were created during the time of the alliance government, and welfare was strengthened by SEK 100 billion. Of course, the reforms carried out during the alliance years are not enough. After the major migration reception in 2015, major efforts are now required. Today, when we have a boom and quite a few people are outside the labour market, it is particularly serious. So we have a migration and integration challenge that is growing in this boom that we are in. Unemployment remains high for many groups while we can see that the economy will be slowed down because we have a labour shortage. Madam President, I would like Sweden is in a boom. At the same time, we have people who do not work. And we have a shortage of manpower. The problem is the structural imbalances that lead to the exclusion of vulnerable groups from the labour market, regardless of the economic situation we are in. A permanent alienation has been created, and it must be broken. Only a quarter of the new arrivals have a full year's employment after eight years in Sweden. And unfortunately, the government risks aggravating the problems through higher taxes on labour, a change in the focus on labour market policies and benefit systems. That is not just my assessment, Madam President. This is also the Conjunkturinstitutet's assessment. The government risks further strengthening exclusion, while the Migration Agency estimates that nearly half a million people will establish themselves in Sweden by 2020. For a woman born outside Europe, the chances of getting a job are also much worse. We Moderates want to change that.
i-6634fc875becb13d-332	Madam President, I would like Here we have two Moderates who have intervened on the integration of women born abroad into the labour market. That's two brave boys. Christian Holm Barenfeld and Erik Andersson! You thought that the governance of the Employment Service should be removed when it came to working against breaking the gender-segregated labour market. We have reintroduced this governance of the Employment Service. You thought you should have custody allowance. We've taken that away. It was an obvious female trap. This government has also initiated changes in parental insurance to ensure that new arrivals do not fall into a trap where parental leave is overly long. We have also ensured that women also benefit from wage subsidies. The gender balance for new start jobs is such that a majority are men. We are introducing extra posts where we see that the majority who get part of that type of pay subsidy are women. We are investing heavily in those who are short educated, not least. Training obligations, for example, are one such issue. We have developed a mission for the Swedish Public Employment Service to develop an action plan for women born abroad with a short education. I get the question, how are the jobs going to be more? Jobs are getting more. In fact, they are growing at an amazing pace. I get the question, how are foreign-born women going to get a job? It is for foreign-born women that the labour market is the best. This is the group for which employment has increased most, among the different groups that we compare in the labour market. The challenge remains for foreign-born women who find it particularly difficult to find a job, for example because they have a short education or for other reasons are far from the labour market. I have just lined up the efforts of the government. However, I find it remarkable and a little exciting that we here have moderates like when you had the chance – we still compare government alternatives, when it comes to how well you succeed with different things – governed so that foreign born women ended up in welfare traps, such as custody allowances. Now we have a moderate party that wants to run the country with the support of the Swedish Democrats and who wants to believe that it would make it easier for foreign born women in the labour market. That is courageous, Madam President!
i-6634fc875becb13d-343	Madam President, I would like Where to start? I don't think it's very brave. I think it is necessary. And I think we're gonna do it. In the absence of one's own arguments, you have to jump on the opponents and talk about their policies. As I said earlier, I think it is a good thing when we talk about moderate politics when we talk about how to increase jobs, how to get more jobs and how to increase employment. In this area too, it is the Moderates who have the proposals. On the other hand, we have been very open and clear that we are redesigning our policies and that we have come up with new proposals. We actually lost the 2014 election. Then we have to do it again and do it right. We have to look at what we did or did not do that resulted in not enough people having confidence in us. That is why we have come up with a wide range of proposals. It must also be recognised that the reality today is in many ways different from that of the 2014 elections, and it is even more different from that of the 2006 and 2010 elections. It will certainly look something different in 2018 than it does today. However, in the area of integration, it would be strange if we did not come up with any new points of view following the major refugee crisis that we had in 2015. Although there were integration problems and major challenges in the past, the refugee crisis put things at the forefront. Then I get even more confused when I hear Ylva Johansson. Regardless of what Ylva Johansson thinks of the Alliance's policy, of Moderate politics and of what we did, I have to ask: How are jobs going to be more, and how are jobs going to be more for women who are outside the labour market and for women who come from other countries and who are outside the labour market if they worsen the parts where we know that foreign-born women have received many jobs, such as the RUT sector, which has been tried in every way to squeeze? There are numbers on different things, and not all numbers point in the right direction. We can see that those in the labour market and those close to the labour market have become fewer. But we also see that the people who have come to our country and other people who have high thresholds into the labour market are becoming more numerous. Those who are far removed from the labour market are getting further and further away from the labour market, and they are becoming more and more numerous. There's a huge challenge. We will have a huge challenge when we win the elections and put ourselves in government, and this government also has a huge challenge. But the problems are much less extensive if you have ideas, visions and concrete proposals on how to solve the situation. That is what we have been asking about in our interpellations. In this situation, we have asked concrete questions and hope for concrete proposals on how Ylva Johansson believes that the jobs will be increased and how she believes that a larger proportion of the women who come to Sweden will get into work. It is important for labour market policy reasons, it is important for integration policy and it is important for gender equality.
i-6634fc875becb13d-351	Madam President, I would like I heard the minister use the words brave boys. If I'd been a different kind of person, I'd feel like it's a master technique. But I'm almost flattered by being called a boy, I must say. The minister's talking about fake news-- we've heard about that lately-- that's news that's not true. It is simply spreading lies that we would like to rule with SD. That doesn't make any sense. We have said that we will talk to all parties in the committees. We will never rule with SD. It is exactly the same when it comes to the fact that the Social Democrats are not in government with the Left Party. It would be a danger to the country. But the Social Democrats are cooperating with the Left Party. Those who first used the Swedish Democrats in the Swedish Parliament were not the Moderates. It was the Social Democrats who, with the help of SD, made sure that 100 000 more people paid higher taxes. We're not the ones who opened this Pandora's box. If so, you are equally good cabbage drinkers. But back to the question. The view of the Moderates is that all people, regardless of gender, should have equal opportunities in the labour market and in taking part in efforts to increase employability. The study carried out by the Swedish Women's Lobby shows the complete opposite. I will draw some figures at the end of my speech. Basically, this is about freedom and power over his own life. It is also about being able to preserve Swedish welfare over time. It is therefore important that as many new arrivals as possible get into employment very quickly. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, this inequality permeates the whole labour market, and women born abroad and newcomers are particularly hard hit by this. Those furthest from the labour market are the out-of-European born women and those who have no education at all. We want to change that. The results of the review from the Swedish Women's Lobby show, when we have a feminist government, that less than one in four entry jobs and new start jobs went to a woman last year. In 2016, 3 1 per cent were women and 69 per cent men of the new participants were in fast track. Women often have part-time activity in entry-level jobs. Every third woman works half-time or less in entry-level jobs. Almost every fifth woman with an establishment plan was prevented from participating in activities. More men get jobs after the start-up assignment. One in four newcomers leaves the labour market and labour market policy programmes completely after the start-up mandate. That way, I can go on. The figure shows that women are disadvantaged in the Swedish feminist government. This calls for strong government action. And that's not a beautiful statistic to be proud of. The Minister believes that this is unacceptable, and the Minister believes that she should follow this closely. Then my call is: please describe how the Minister will do to follow it take care!
i-6634fc875becb13d-358	Madam President, I would like The feelings ran away with me a little bit. The correct speech is of course a Member of Parliament and nothing else. I want to correct myself on this point. I am once again asked by Christian Holm Barenfeld how the jobs will be more. That is not the problem in Sweden right now. Jobs are getting more. They grow to very good. One challenge is how to continue this development, so that we have sustained long-term growth and that new jobs continue to grow. But the big challenge right now in the labour market is to find people with the right skills for the job vacancies. I am once again asked how foreign-born women are going to get a job. It is the group that is most likely to get jobs today. It is in this group that the employment rate is increasing most strongly. We must continue that development. But it is quite obvious that we are going the right way. Christian Holm Barenfeld says that we are squeezing RUT contributions in every way. We don't. RUT grants are increasing. Let us stick a little bit to the reality that we actually have. New arrivals in the labour market are increasing, i.e. the new arrivals in the establishment assignment who are enrolled in the Employment Service. It's an expected development. We have received more asylum seekers than any other OECD country has ever done – twice as many as Germany in 2014 and 2015. It is clear that those who have asylum reasons, are granted a residence permit and stay here come into the labour market, and they come from day one to be unemployed. That's how it's gonna be. It is important that we describe this right; it is not about people who have been excluded from the Swedish labour market but about people who are new entrants to the Swedish labour market and of course need ways in. One of the problems raised is that new start jobs mainly go to men. It is very serious, and it is one of the issues that Arbetsförmedlingen is working on. Against this background, however, one might ask why the Moderates are against extra services. After all, the majority of them have turned out to be women. It is therefore a way of actually ensuring that we get a more even distribution of wage subsidies between women and men. Erik Andersson mentions that establishment plans without content are particularly common among women. Well, that's one of the reasons why the government has put a bill on Parliament's table to change the establishment mandate, so that we can get away with this with empty establishment plans. It's a bad thing to have it that way. That is why we are changing into the same parts that govern labour market policy in general. This means that Arbetsförmedlingen can ultimately make demands on what activities people should participate in – and make changes to the plan when you find it justified. Of course, this should be done primarily in consultation with the job seeker or newcomer, but if you do not agree, you can ultimately force a person to do what you consider sensible. Madam President, I would like The serious part of this debate is that to which Erik Andersson replied in his speech. He says that the Moderates do not want to rule with the Swedish Democrats, but that they want cooperation of the kind that the current government has with the Left Party – that is, an organized budget cooperation. That's an important message.
i-6634fc875becb13d-368	Madam President, I would like I guess I'll just have to start where Ylva Johansson left off. The Moderates want to pursue moderate politics and present an alliance budget. If Ylva Johansson then chooses to vote for it – or Jonas Sjöstedt or Jimmie Åkesson or someone else chooses to vote for it – it may be, but whoever chooses to vote for the Alliance's budget takes a stand for a good budget that leads to more jobs and creates a better Sweden. Then it is less interesting who votes for it. On the other hand, we have been clear that the Moderates' government options are to rule together with the other alliance parties and to ensure that the present government parties end up in a faithful and firm opposition. We will do that by winning the support of the voters. That's what it's all about. At this point, however, we are talking about how to increase the number of jobs for women born abroad. As far as the additional services are concerned, we had other proposals, because we do not think that they should be restricted to the public sector only in the way that Ylva Johansson and the government want. Instead, we want to ensure that they are available throughout the labour market. It is important that both men and women enter the public sector, but it is equally important that women born abroad have the opportunity to enter both the private and public labour markets. It is a truth with modification when Ylva Johansson says that you do not affect the successful RUT deduction. You halve the sum and do a series of other things. However, the Migration Agreement wisely gave the Alliance a response to its increased demand for strengthened RUT deductions in certain areas. We Moderates propose, among other things, further efforts in this area, plus a series of other measures, actions and reforms that will enable women born abroad to get to work.
i-6634fc875becb13d-372	Madam President, I would like The Minister continues with untruths. I have never spoken of budgetary cooperation. What I was trying to describe, Madam President, was that the Social Democrats are working with V – quite often. Sometimes the V vote independently in committee, and sometimes they vote for the Social Democratic proposals. I assume that the Minister is a democrat and believes in the ideas of democracy. That's what this is about, isn't it? It has not been a successful trip to isolate a party that has been elected to the Swedish parliament. We are now very far removed from the question of origin, but I must mention this. That is precisely what this is about: we are talking to all democratic parties elected to Parliament, and if there is any question in committee that we agree on, then there is no problem with that. The Left Party has voted with the Moderates on some issues as well, and I do not feel like a worse person for that – assuming that aspect of cooperation. The foundation, however, is that the Moderates want to rule the country in an alliance government. That's what we want to do. We in the Moderates have said that we want to put forward an alliance budget to remove the harmful policy that is destroying Sweden. It is fortunate for the government that we are in a boom, because the political measures have not provided much more jobs. It is the economic cycle that has made sure that we have more jobs. Sometimes you get lucky. I don't usually get lucky in lotteries, but the government has been lucky in terms of government ownership during this term of office. However, you can do Lotta when it comes to school places!
i-6634fc875becb13d-375	Madam President, I would like Let me say this again: the RUT contribution is increasing. We have an increased use. The state pays out more and more in RUT grants. That means that sector is growing. The subsidy is also growing; it is visible in the state budget. Women should, of course, enter the whole labour market and not only in the public sector. It's very, very important. That is precisely why I found it so unfortunate that the old government removed the mandate to the Employment Service to counter gender segregation in the labour market. We've brought it back. When taxpayers invest in labour market policies, I think it is reasonable that the money is also used to counter a gender-segregated labour market and to ensure that women have opportunities that are equal to men's – and preferably also able to access professions where women are under-represented, and vice-versa. Madam President, I would like However, the important issue is the last one raised by Erik Andersson. Let us return to the minutes of the debate to see what Erik Andersson really said, but I noted the comparison between the cooperation that the Moderates want with the Swedish Democrats in a planned government situation and the cooperation that the current government has with the Left Party. It was a new one, and it was an interesting one. Madam President, I would like Yeah, I'm a Democrat. I represent the verdict of the voters' votes. Every democrat must do so. This does not mean that all parties elected to the Swedish parliament – which of course should have the opportunities and rights of all elected representatives in the Swedish parliament – should have influence over the government. There, each party has its choice.
i-6634fc875becb13d-379	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked me what measures I intend to take to set up a game conservation agency as a matter of urgency. The hunting investigation submitted an interim report, the Swedish Wildlife Agency – hunting and game management in a new time(SOU 2013:71). The report has been referred, and the government's assessment is that certain issues require further investigation. Outstanding issues need to be analysed much deeper than the investigation has done, and the report's proposals on funding are not satisfactory. Swedish game management has changed over time and continues to develop. We need to carefully consider the forms and the structure of the authorities in order to create the most efficient and sustainable game management possible. Among other things, efforts to coordinate game management issues continue to be important. The government has taken a number of initiatives in the area of hunting and game conservation and, among other things, created order and order in the area of wolf hunting and small game hunting. Wildlife management is constantly evolving. As several parties and stakeholders are involved and the scientific evidence is complex, a more comprehensive consideration is needed. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has therefore, on behalf of the Government, developed a strategy for Swedish wildlife management. In the 2017 budget bill, the Government confirmed that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's work based on the strategy can contribute to the continued development of game management. The government monitors the progress of the game strategy. The Government is acting to build up long-term trustful collaborations with stakeholders in order to improve the conditions for effective and sustainable game management.
i-6634fc875becb13d-384	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I note that we had a similar interpellation debate almost exactly a year ago and that the answer then was basically identical: that the government should analyse much deeper than the investigation has done and that the funding should also be reviewed, which was not considered satisfactory. This is an announcement in which Parliament has clearly stated that it wants a game agency like this, which takes over some of the responsibility for hunting and game conservation issues, to be set up. The Parliament made this decision in February 2015, i.e. about two years ago. After two years, it is expected that the Government and the Minister will have done something on this issue. My very simple and straightforward question is: What happened? How much closer are we to a game agency today? And does the Minister and the Government actually intend to comply with Parliament's decision to establish this authority?
i-6634fc875becb13d-388	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sten Bergheden, for giving me the opportunity to discuss a game agency and what the government is doing in terms of hunting and game management. When we took over there was a lot of disorder in the hunting area. There was a hunting of wolves that did not come about with the rule that the alliance government had put in place. There were problems with the mountain hunting, which pushed Swedish citizens out of the hunt. This has been corrected by the government. Today we have a functioning wolf hunt and a functioning mountain hunt, which does not crowd out Swedish citizens. There was also disorder in the economy. We took over an economy with a deficit of as much as 62 billion– that was the deficit in March 2015, when the announcement was given that Sten Bergheden relates to. Two terms of office with deficits have been turned into two years of surplus. The creation of new authorities costs money, Sten Bergheden, and there must be clear added value. A well-designed administrative structure is a prerequisite for efficient and sustainable game management. Therefore, we need to carefully consider and explore different options, but also look at cost-effectiveness. We cannot lose sight of the economy, and we shall have order in both the economy and the game management.
i-6634fc875becb13d-394	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the same reply once again, with a clear indication that nothing has actually happened to the new Wildlife Agency. The Parliament has made an announcement. A majority in the Riksdag has supported this. This majority has pointed out with all its hands that it wants to see this game agency put forward. The Minister reports here that he has been involved in solving other problems, but he has not started to set up the game agency that would get the main answer for this mission. This is probably the problem – if you are to respect political and democratic decisions, it is a matter of implementing what the Riksdag has decided and requested. It is also reasonable, then, that the government and the Minister have a certain amount of time to do this. Here today, after two years, the Minister gives the same answer as he gave a year ago. These things have not been solved. You haven't moved on. It has not continued to investigate how this is to be set up, but is talking about having worked with other things. I would like answers here today: what has the Minister done to set up this Wildlife Authority? What does the Minister intend to do to set up the game agency that Parliament has decided on, and when will it all be ready?
i-6634fc875becb13d-400	Madam President, I would like The government has taken a number of initiatives related to hunting and game conservation, including looking at a game conservation agency. In announcements to the Government, Parliament has also presented a number of assignments, including the management of seal hunting in public waters and in economic zones as well as the management of red deer. In all these areas, we have put out missions to deal with them. There was a great deal of disorder in hunting when we took over, and it is clear that this is a major workload. As I mentioned, we have had to add the right wolf hunt and the mountain hunt. We have also tried to deal with the feeding of wild game, which affects farmers very hard economically. Unfortunately, this has been stopped by the alliance parties together with the Swedish Democrats, which means that farmers continue to have major problems with this feeding.
i-6634fc875becb13d-403	Madam President, I would like The Minister continues to tell us what has been done. He doesn't answer straight, simple questions. What has happened since the announcement? The answer I received a year ago was essentially identical to the answer I received today. What have the Minister and the Government done to establish what the Riksdag has decided and decided? What initiatives have been taken, what initiatives do we intend to take and when and how do we have a new wildlife agency in Sweden? The latter, in fact, has been decided by the Riksdag and given the Government the task of resolving. The Minister will of course have to use his time to talk about other things he works with – it is a very good opportunity to do so. But this particular interpellation debate is about the game agency and when it will be established in Sweden. We haven't seen anything. Nothing is done there, as I interpret it. If nothing else, the Minister has failed to convince me that he and the government have done something. The Minister has a further statement to make. Now just tell me, to the Riksdag and to the Swedish people: When and how will this game agency be in place? What initiatives has the Minister taken, and what initiatives will the Minister take to make this parliamentary decision a reality?
i-6634fc875becb13d-408	Madam President, I would like As Minister for Rural Affairs, I would like to emphasise that I am concerned about hunting and wildlife management issues. These are very important for rural areas. The Government has taken a number of initiatives to investigate issues based on the Riksdag's announcement, which also includes the Wildlife Agency. But the mess that was handed over regarding the hunt and the economy has made these things less easy to handle. There are also a number of issues that need to be addressed. The Swedish Wildlife Administration is constantly developing, and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's strategy for Swedish wildlife management can contribute to this. The government is positive about the strategy and follows how the work works. Now that the government has turned the deficit of the state budget into surplus, we have also created greater room for manoeuvre to continue developing effective game management.
i-6634fc875becb13d-412	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to enable farmers to receive payments of EU agricultural aid on time and whether I have continued to trust the Swedish Agriculture Agency's ability to manage future payments of EU agricultural aid. I should like to begin by summarising what I said earlier on this issue. I understand very well that the late payment of agricultural subsidies poses problems for farmers. I am well aware of the difficulties faced by farmers. The difficulties encountered in the payment of aid put farmers in a serious situation, and the Government is therefore closely following the Swedish Board of Agriculture's efforts to increase the rate of aid payments. The introduction of the new and long changed agricultural policy has put a great deal of strain on the administration of the Swedish Agriculture Agency and also the county administrative boards. Major efforts have been made and are being made to overcome the backlog in the proceedings. At the same time, it is important that the processing is carried out and decisions are taken on the correct basis so as not to risk that individual aid seekers are subject to recovery and Sweden to sanctions for mishandling of the aid. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has given priority to paying out the largest payments in terms of the budget first, such as the single payment and the large environmental payments, so that as many people as possible can get their money. At the same time, we must not turn a blind eye to the fact that some groups are still waiting for money, in some cases right from the application year 2015, which is deeply unfortunate. I and the government see the seriousness of the situation we are currently in. We continuously follow up information from the Swedish Board of Agriculture on both the payment situation and the development of IT systems. The Government has provided the Swedish Board of Agriculture's administrative grant of SEK 60 million per year in 2017 – 2020 to strengthen administrative resources. We believe that the Swedish Board of Agriculture has the resources it needs to complete the work on the introduction of the new agricultural policy. We expect the Swedish Board of Agriculture to have mainly fixed the remaining backlogs by the end of this year.
i-6634fc875becb13d-417	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This response does not reassure so many farmers around Sweden, who are currently filling out their applications for the agricultural aid that is possible to search through the money we receive from the European Union. It is possible for all farmers across the EU to apply for these EU subsidies, and Swedish farmers, of course, apply for them and expect to get them out according to the existing and also on time regulations. When I'm out talking to farmers, they lift two important things. We need to have better competitiveness and a level playing field. We must be able to compete reasonably with other countries in order to sell and produce food in Sweden. What, then, is the difference between Swedish farmers and those in the EU? It is first and foremost that we have a tougher regulatory framework and higher taxes here in Sweden, which greatly impairs the competitive situation of our farmers. As a result, food imports increase, and many buy cheaper imported food. Sweden is thus losing both jobs and growth, and we are not getting the living countryside and the development we want. This with competitiveness is crucial for Swedish agriculture to be able to regain the confidence and willingness to invest in order to get more jobs and increased growth in rural areas. Another important issue that is often raised is that our authorities, our government agencies and our decision-makers, Madam President, can actually deliver what is expected. It is expected that the processing times will be reasonable. It is expected that the permits will arrive on time. It is expected that the trials that are being carried out will be carried out in a reasonable time before you receive your support and compensation for the work you have done. Since 2015, Sweden has had a problem with this. I do not want to say that it is only because of the new government we have in Sweden, but it has not helped in any case in the way one could expect to solve the problem. For Swedish farmers do not get their EU money. Today, the EU stands at approximately SEK 300 million, reportedly from the LRF, which is not paid out for 2015 and with around 1.6 billion in 2016. It is therefore 1.9 billion Swedish agriculture is waiting for our authorities and our works to pay out. Of course, Madam President, many people are in a difficult situation in terms of liquidity in resolving this and, above all, in a situation where competition is fierce and there are no margins. Madam President, I would like Why is this? Well, a new computer system has been set up at the Swedish Board of Agriculture. When this computer system was set up, the budget burst. It cost a lot more than you expected. Besides, it doesn't work, and that's the most serious of all. Numbers and other things had to be worked with manually. The government's ability to solve this was then to go in with more money for the administration. I would like to ask the Minister here in my first speech: does the Minister still have confidence in the Swedish Board of Agriculture and its Director-General? Is it reasonable that the Swedish Board of Agriculture can withhold money from 2015 and 2016 for Sweden's farmers?
i-6634fc875becb13d-426	Madam President, I would like I cannot stress enough how seriously the government views the situation with regard to the payments. I have been working on this issue since day one when I took office as Minister of State. The situation is no less serious, despite the fact that most of the funds have been paid out. The payment for 2015 was SEK 9 billion or 97 per cent. 3% has not been paid out. The same is true for 2016. 8.1 billion is paid or 83%. And the problems are no less, Sten Bergheden, because many other countries in the EU have the same problems and have even paid out less than Sweden has. The affected farmers are not comforted by it. As I said, I took up this issue from the beginning and added funds to the 2016 budget bill. But I quickly realized that it was not enough. Therefore, I appointed an investigation in which Statskontoret was to analyse and evaluate the agricultural support. We check in close dialogue with the Swedish Board of Agriculture that the deficiencies raised in the investigation are resolved. Statskontoret pointed to 60 deficiencies. It's serious. I have also added additional resources to the Swedish Board of Agriculture. My assessment is that we now have administrative resources and funds to buy in the technology needed to cope with the remaining elements. I say again that the situation is unacceptable as it is today, and I follow the situation almost daily in order to overcome the problem.
i-Gpr7g9aRNBvVZyebp1Axdz	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your speech. I asked two specific questions, and I hope I can get answers. Has the Minister continued to trust the Swedish Board of Agriculture and its Director General, and is it reasonable that the Swedish Board of Agriculture can withhold money from 2015-2016 that farmers should have? Does the Minister think that it is reasonable for them to be detained at the moment? Mr. Old President! The LRF will now run a pilot project against the Swedish Board of Agriculture to determine whether it is reasonable, what has happened, and whether it is entitled to receive interest for the money that has been withheld. It is therefore about 1.9 billion that has not been paid out in Sweden to Sweden's farmers. They should have been paid out in 2015 or 2016. If farmers who are now filling in SAM applications to apply for new support for 2017 make mistakes, they will receive deductions. Then there will be checks out there, there will be corrections and there will also be deductions. It is also said that anyone who submits these SAM applications after 4 May receives a 1% deduction on the amount for each day after 4 May. If it is delayed until 29 May, the whole amount will be cancelled. In other words, a farmer who will receive, for example, 100 000 SEK in aid after a week's delay in receiving the SAM form will only receive 95 000. If it's two weeks, it's $90,000 he'll get if he returns too late. If it's been about a month on May 29th, he'll lose all the support. Now we are talking about days, perhaps a month, when farmers do not submit the application on time. However, the Swedish Board of Agriculture has not paid the compensation to be paid during 235 working days in one year. Another year later, this has not been paid out. Had you had the same system so that the Swedish Board of Agriculture would pay a fee if you didn't pay the money on time, then the farmer who would have 100 000 would have got an increase of 235 000 kronor per year. There is therefore an enormous amount of money being collected in punishment for a farmer who submits a SAM application too late, while the Swedish Board of Agriculture has no responsibility for the late payments that have become the case. My questions to the Minister in this round are, on the one hand, the previous one about trust in the Board of Agriculture and the Director-General, but also this one: Is it reasonable for you to get some form of interest or compensation because you have had to wait so long for the money? I understand that it may be difficult to answer, but there should be some kind of will. Is it reasonable to be able to get some kind of compensation for waiting for the money as long as in this case? It is not reasonable for farmers around the country to tolerate this without any kind of compensation.
i-6634fc875becb13d-438	Mr. Old President! As far as the regulatory framework is concerned, this government has not changed it, but it is a framework that was put in place under the alliance government. That is an answer to the question raised by Sten Bergheden. On the issue of trust, I expect the Board of Agriculture and its management to take the necessary steps to clarify this situation this year. Is it reasonable that the payments are so late? My answer to that question is no. It is deeply unfortunate that this is the way it is. That is why I and the government have taken a number of measures to get the Swedish Board of Agriculture to deal with this problem. There is also a historical problem from before this government took office. We did not have the regulations in place around the new CAP period. There were 333 outstanding questions from the Commission. The Alliance government handed over to us when we took over a mess on these issues that is still having an effect. Mr. Old President! When we discussed the same issue last autumn, the Moderates criticised me for the increased appropriations for the Swedish Board of Agriculture. Sten Bergheden then wondered the following. I'll quote Sten. Is it the new policy of the government and the government to give more money to the authorities and works that mismanage their procurements and because of that unable to keep their budget? ..................................................... Now Sten Bergheden writes in his interpellation that it cannot come as a surprise to the government and the Swedish Board of Agriculture that additional resources may be needed in order to make payments of EU aid in time. Sten Bergheden! I cannot interpret it as anything other than that you Moderates have now joined the measures taken and taken by the government, which are also supported by the Center Party, among other things. I'm really glad. It is important to have broad consensus in the Riksdag on this type of issue. In fact, the Moderates' budget exercise last autumn lacked extra money for the Swedish Board of Agriculture. I don't want to misinterpret you, Sten Bergheden. That's why I wonder if your transfer of position really applies. Will there now be extra money for the Swedish Board of Agriculture in the Swedish Moderate Economic Spring Movement – yes or no?
i-6634fc875becb13d-446	Mr. Old President! Thank you for that intervention, Minister. First of all, I can only say that it would be strange if we could not try to adapt. Now that the government has messed up so tremendously for our farmers that they have to wait for the money for up to two years, it is reasonable to do something. What the Minister forgets at this point is that it is the farmers themselves who have had to pay the 60 million to the Board of Agriculture to cover these parts. In fact, that money is being taken from the rural development programme. They were supposed to go to other parts. The Swedish Board of Agriculture is therefore given a safe lease to make a procurement that fails and costs more than it is. You allow the Swedish Board of Agriculture to exceed its budget, and in that situation you tell all other government agencies here in Sweden that it is okay to do such bad business. The reward is that there is more money coming from this government to do what they couldn't do when they did the procurement. Clean up your own house, Minister, before you go into discussing how to solve the problematic situation you have put us in! It goes without saying that we have to take responsibility for what you have managed to mess up properly during your time, but the important issue remains. You have not demanded any kind of liability or made demands in this section. You have contributed money that was the farmers' own to cover this – and it still does not work, Mr. Age President. Farmers around the country are waiting for 1.9 billion. Parts of that money are from 2015 and should have been paid out a year and a half ago.
i-6634fc875becb13d-452	Mr. Old President! I answered Sten Bergheden's three questions, but I note that he did not answer my simple question: Will you provide financial resources in your spring economic movement? I will carefully and with great interest follow the publication of your motion. The mess you caused about CAP was very difficult to deal with when we took office. We had to work around the clock to clear out 333 unanswered questions with the Commission. That is what we took over and laid the foundations for the problems that still exist. It is deeply unacceptable that these farmers cannot obtain their aid. We have taken a great deal of action on the part of the government, and I will be following this issue very closely to ensure that this comes ashore and you can get your money out. There is a lesson to be learned from this, namely to do homework on time. This programming period began on 1 January 2014. When we took office on 3 October 2014, there was not even a regulatory framework in place. Homework needs to be done on time, and systems need to be simplified.
i-6634fc875becb13d-456	Mr. Old President! Maria Malmer Stenergard has asked me how I view the risk that we will be deprived of both resources for welfare that worked hours in welfare when it pays less to work. She has also asked me what measures I intend to take to increase the incentives for choosing work over leave and what measures I intend to take to reduce the fiscal marginal effects of doctors and other professionals working an extra passport. Because of the many unfunded tax cuts of the previous government, we inherited a large budget deficit. Angelistic efforts, which contribute, among other things, to increasing employment and reducing unemployment, must therefore be financed by, among other things, increased taxes. Higher taxes for people with relatively high incomes have both a good distribution profile and provide the necessary tax revenue. In this context, I would like to point out that, for those people who pay government income tax today, the marginal tax is not affected by limited lists of government income tax thresholds. Furthermore, it is not just taxes that affect the number of hours worked. Sweden now has the highest employment rate in the EU. Access to childcare and care for the elderly is an important prerequisite for this. Continued investment in welfare is necessary for both women and men to have the opportunity to work full time. Better care for the elderly and higher quality childcare facilities are not only a matter of safe old age and childhood, but can also reduce the number of people who stop working or go down working hours to care for their loved ones. In order to get more people into work and to get those who work to work full time, we need to invest in education, work environment and prevention of work-related ill health. In the field of health and safety at work policy, the government has greatly strengthened its resources. In order to continue to strengthen the Agency's supervisory activities, additional funds were added to the Government's latest budget. The Government has also presented a strategy for modern working life and contributed to increased research into sustainable working environments. In order to improve the working environment and the conditions of well-being, more resources are needed, not least in order for more people to want to work in elderly care and care. The government has so far strengthened welfare by SEK 30 billion – significant resources that enable municipalities and county councils to strengthen health care, school and care. Such investments in welfare are also of great importance for the working environment, not least in many women-dominated industries, which are characterised by greater problems with ill health than other sectors. With regard to staffing in healthcare, the Government has initiated a series of measures that can contribute to better skills provision. One of these is the so-called professional billion, which means that the government annually allocates SEK 1 billion to strengthen and stimulate county councils' work on skills supply issues. The Government also invests in the development of training courses in shortage professions to meet the needs of the labour market and care, including nurses, specialist nurses and midwives.
i-TFEWAcXEWz4heLftK2C5Wu	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. It is people who run companies and people who work that build Sweden strong. They are the ones who pay the tax on which our welfare depends. If we are to ensure that we have a society that holds together and that is strong for those who are the weakest, the work line must be protected. The work line is so much more than just getting the unemployment figures down and getting the employment figures up. The work line is also about there being opportunities to develop and take responsibility at work, about feeling that it makes sense and that it should be noticed when you perform more and take greater responsibility. That is why I am concerned, not only that more and more of those who do not have jobs are getting further and further away from the labour market, but also that those who have jobs feel that it pays less and less to work more, to make more effort, to educate themselves more and to take more responsibility. This becomes particularly evident in welfare and security. Ask the nurse who read on to a specialist nurse and suddenly became a high wage earner. Ask the police who work shifts so that me and the Minister of Finance can sleep well at night and who suddenly became high income earners. Ask the preschool teacher who applied and got the job as a preschool manager, who is awake at night and is thinking about the children's groups and who suddenly became a high wage earner. Ask the doctor, who in spite of many years in the school bench and in specialist training found it more valuable to go down part-time to fix with the summer cottage than to work full-time with the hands in the care and hire professionals to the cottage. Mr. Old President! Before the elections, the Social Democrats promised not to raise income tax for ordinary wage earners. Ask the nurse or the police what that promise was worth! Three out of ten nurses, four out of ten midwives, four out of ten police officers and five out of ten train drivers – these are the new high income earners, whose income is so staggeringly high that the government thinks they have to start paying government income tax. This is a betrayal, not only against those who suffer but also against welfare. If welfare is to be strong and if this society is to work, it must pay better to work. During the period of the alliance government, tax revenues to municipalities and county councils increased by 26 per cent. It was 26 per cent in increased resources for those who largely finance our welfare. It was an important development. The number of doctors, midwives and nurses per inhabitant rose. Thanks to maintaining the momentum to work, we were also able to allocate EUR 60 billion in our latest budget to welfare by 2020. That's 20 billion more than the government. Welfare is not at risk from reasonable levels of taxation. It is at risk from reduced driving forces and politicians who take people's work and effort for granted. It is all connected, but unfortunately this insight is not reflected in the response of the Minister for Finance. This is worrying. Tax funds are not taken from an inexhaustible source, but from people's work. That source runs out if work doesn't pay off. And when people work less, where will the Minister of Finance take the money for all the investments she lists in her answer? Or didn't she count on it?
i-6634fc875becb13d-474	Mr. Old President! Maria Malmer Stenergard says that tax revenues increased during the time of the Alliance in power. Yes, and this was not because the Alliance reduced the tax, but because the municipalities increased the tax. While the moderate-led alliance government reduced taxes at the state level – mostly for those who earn the most – municipalities and county councils were allowed to manage welfare activities to raise municipal tax, which we know is not progressive in the same way as the state income tax. That is what explains the increase in tax revenues. In her examples, Maria Malmer Stenergard mainly addresses employees in welfare. I think we have different views here. Do we think, like Maria Malmer Stenergard, that it is good for those who work in welfare that we increase tax revenues, or do we think it is bad for those who work in welfare when we increase tax revenues? My conviction is, of course, that when we increase tax revenues and, like this government, add 30 billion to welfare activities, it will also be better for those who work there, for nurses, nurses and doctors. Then they get more colleagues, and there is the opportunity for county council and municipal politicians to work for their working conditions and salaries. That's how we work in this government. Unlike Maria Malmer Stenergards's party, which left behind large deficits in public finances when it was in government – it had reduced the tax by 130 billion – we are working to finance our reforms and ensure that there is order in public finances. We are raising some taxes, not for ordinary income earners, and ensuring that we have the necessary funding. Maria Stenergard talks a lot about marginal taxes. But even though the alliance government reduced taxes by 130 billion, it chose not to touch the marginal tax. If Maria Malmer Stenergard and the Moderates think it is such a big problem, why did they do nothing about the marginal tax during the years they were in government?
i-6634fc875becb13d-478	Mr. Old President! I note that the Minister of Finance reiterates his commitment not to increase the tax on ordinary income earners. I suggest again that we ask the nurse and the police if they consider themselves to be high earners. This is a betrayal, regardless of what the Minister of Finance says here today. The tax burden decreased during the alliance government, but tax revenues increased. It has to do with driving forces. In the 1991 major tax reform, there were two main principles. One of the principles was that taxpayers would have half left. The government would never take more than you could keep. That principle was quickly abandoned when the military tax was introduced – as someone said: There is nothing more permanent than a temporary measure. It may be good for us politicians to remember this. Another principle was that only 10 per cent of employees would pay government income tax. This was then adjusted to 15 per cent, but the basic idea was the same, i.e. that only a small proportion of employees would pay government income tax. That's why you list the breakpoint. If this is not done, all employees will end up with high-income employees. During the current government, more and more people are being forced to pay government income tax. Instead of 15 per cent of wage and salary earners, it is now one in three full-time workers or 24 per cent of all wage and salary earners. It is now not a tax for those who earn the most, but a tax for broad groups who work hard but who keep less and less. If you have a monthly salary of 36 575 SEK onor, you today have to start paying government income tax. If the principles of the tax reform were to be followed, so that only 15 per cent of employees would pay government income tax, the limit would instead be 42 400 SEK onions. It would probably have been much more reasonable for ordinary wage earners. When the rest of the world is moving towards lower marginal taxes to cope with competition, Sweden is moving in the opposite direction. From an already extreme tax situation, and from a situation where it pays a record little to train, we will make it even less profitable to work and to make an effort. Almega recently showed in a report that marginal taxes allow Sweden to lose a doctor's capacity equivalent to 2,800 full-time jobs per year because it pays too little to work and to work an extra passport. Instead of working, doctors choose to be free or to take out complacently instead of pay. Many choose to work part-time – this in a situation where there are care queues in many county councils. The question that the Minister for Finance must ask himself is: Can Sweden's patients really afford this? A health care manager says: We don't need any more hands in primary care, but we need to get those who are already employees to work more. At least two thirds of our doctors work part-time. If marginal taxes were lower, we could get them more involved and go up to full-time. In fact, as fiscal policy now develops, there seems to be only one underlying principle left: as many people as possible should pay as much as possible. As I have already been into it, it is a high game with such a principle. It is the welfare that is the stake in that game. Quite apart from this, there are also moral aspects. It is not reasonable for a hardworking midwife to be considered and taxed as a high-income earner, or for an extra hour worked to be taxed so hard that the person who works it may retain less than the state takes. Just as it must pay better to move from grants to work, it must also pay better to make an effort, to train and to work a little extra. It is only in this way that we build our welfare strong.
i-6634fc875becb13d-489	Mr. Old President! At Maria Malmer Stenergard it may sound like people got increased tax before the turn of the year or will get increased tax after the next turn of the year. Maria Stenergard knows very well that this was not the case. If she doesn't know this, it's very troubling. No nurse or police officer received increased tax between last December of last year and 1 January of this year, and no nurse, police or midwife will receive increased tax between the last December of this year and 1 January 2018. Because it doesn't work that way. What we are doing is limiting a tax cut. We're not raising taxes. Maria Malmer Stenergard knows this. Maria Malmer Stenergard talks about the principles of the 1990-91 tax reform. If she thinks it is interesting, I naturally wonder whether she also supports the other principles of that reform, i.e. property tax, property tax and inheritance and gift tax. She is happy to answer if she is behind those principles too, or if she has picked the principles that are most appropriate at the moment. Maria Malmer Stenergard also brings up the doctors. We have a big problem with getting permanent doctors into the care. One reason for this is that many people work as relay doctors instead of as permanent employees. Here at the moment the Moderates are fighting for it to continue to be fiscally beneficial to work as a relay doctor and be self-employed compared to being a permanent employee in a county council. It is clear that this is not good for county councils around Sweden. Currently, you have 100 000 less tax if you work as a self-employed relay doctor compared to if you have permanent employment in county councils. It is clear that this makes it difficult for county councils. We want to do something about this with the new 3:12 proposals that we have put forward. They would reduce the tax advantage of being self-employed and working as a relay doctor compared to being a permanent employee. But this is what the Moderates are trying to stop. I think it would be good both for the county councils and for doctors and nurses, and not least for patients, if more doctors were permanently employed. Maria Malmer Stenergard wonders if patients can afford midwives to pay government income tax. The question is whether patients can afford the Sixth Employment Tax Credit of Moderates. I had a question that Maria Malmer Stenergard did not answer. If she thinks the marginal tax is so important, why did the Moderates not reduce the marginal tax when they were in government? You also say that there is a morality in having half of it left. But even though you made tax cuts of SEK 130 billion, you did not reduce the marginal tax so that it remained half over the eight years you were in government. If the marginal tax is so important, why didn't you do anything about it?
i-6634fc875becb13d-496	Mr. Old President! Yes, we gave priority to reducing taxes on those who earned the least. The government seems to be giving priority to raising taxes for everyone. Here I would like to point out that if one had continued to list the breakpoint, as one usually does, people would have had less in tax than they now get. If the Minister of Finance doesn't understand that, I'm really worried. Sweden is in many ways a fantastic country, but we must not take it for granted. We must constantly fight to maintain the strength of our economy and of our welfare. We Moderates want to continue to reduce taxes for those who earn the least in order to make the difference when going from subsidies to work, for example, and for the effort to pay off. But we also want to make it more profitable to work for those who earn more. We want that for two reasons. Firstly, it is morally right to be paid to make an effort, even after the state has deducted the tax. Secondly, we do not dare to play loud with welfare as an effort. During the alliance government, revenue for welfare increased by 26 percent, thanks to the fact that it paid more to work. We took responsibility for the welfare. The government's left-wing tax-raising policy has gone so far that it is now hardworking people at the heart of welfare and in security that are taxed as high-income earners. It's the police, the specialist nurses, the primary teachers and the pre-school managers. All of these are needed more than ever, and they need to feel motivated. The working environment is extremely important, but it is also the driving forces. The government's answer is to increase the tax and to reduce the driving forces. Instead, the answer should be quite different: to make it more profitable to work, to train and to make an effort. It is about the m who set the clock, pack the lunch box, puzzle with pick-up times and go to work. This should also be done for the benefit of students, patients and citizens.
i-6634fc875becb13d-501	Mr. Old President! Maria Malmer Stenergard is concerned about the government's tax policy. She's been doing that for two and a half years. For two and a half years, we have heard Maria Malmer Stenergard and a number of other Moderates tell here in the speaker's chair what terrible consequences the government's tax policy would have. No one would want to start a business. You wouldn't want to be educated. You wouldn't want to work anymore. Now we see the results, after two and a half years. New figures came from Statistics Sweden today. Employment has increased by 200 000 since we came into government. Unemployment is falling. Youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. And despite everything Maria Malmer Stenergard says that government policy means that people will not want to work that extra hour also actually increases the number of hours worked. This is the result of government policy.
i-6634fc875becb13d-503	Mr. Old President! Edward Riedl has asked me, firstly, when I intend to introduce a kilometre tax and, secondly, how I intend to design the new tax so that the negative effects which caused the government to refrain from proceeding with the investigation will not arise with the new proposal. Work is now under way within the Government Office to develop proposals for the design of a road wear tax. Our ambition is to make a proposal during the term of office. Then when the tax can begin to be collected is too early to say now. Our ambition is to develop a proposal that entails environmental benefits for society and increased competition neutrality between Swedish and foreign haulage companies, and which means that foreign haulage companies can contribute to the financing of the Swedish infrastructure.
i-6634fc875becb13d-506	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. The government that we have right now seems to disapprove of distance very much, because tax is being imposed on tax on tax to punish just distance. It's mileage tax for heavy trucks and flight tax for airplanes. It wants to continue to increase taxes on petrol. It wants to continue to increase the tax on diesel. All this is bad politics for a country like Sweden, with long distances to handle. It is a policy that is absolutely devastating for Norrland, with the longest distances in Sweden to handle. I was, Mr. Old President, in Dorotea yesterday, debating the mileage tax. There is a compact resistance to taxes from a distance. It dislikes most taxes that the government wants to introduce, which make entrepreneurship difficult. But above all, you don't like taxes from a distance. The CEO of Norrmejerier even went so far as to say: The kilometre tax that the government wants to introduce is nothing more than a tax on Norrland. Even the one who was moderator for the evening, SVT profile Sverker Olofsson, said that he dislikes the kilometer tax, precisely because it targets the cape towards Norrland and towards distance. Then let's remember that Sverker Olofsson, Mr. Age President, is a person who likes increased taxes very much. But even he doesn't think the mileage tax is good. The Minister of Finance says that processing is ongoing. I know what it's like when you're in a government position. Then you can hide behind that very thing: that preparation is ongoing. But I – and many with me, I think – are interested in knowing, because this is about the ability to run businesses and live in large parts of our country. Many are interested to know: What was the government's disapproval in the previous proposal, which was withdrawn? And what is it you want to change in the new proposal, which is going to be so much better? It's still the distances you're after, isn't it? If you are going to introduce a kilometre tax, it can reasonably be nothing but the distances you want to combat. Then the cape, Mr. Old President, is directed towards Norrland and nothing else. I think the Minister can give better answers than the first she gave.
i-6634fc875becb13d-511	Mr. Old President! I am convinced that Edward Riedl will think that I can give better answers as long as I do not give exactly the answer that Edward Riedl wishes. I think we can agree on that. What was it that we disliked in the proposal? I think the most important thing was this: with the design of this proposal and the technical design, my assessment is that it would lead to a less competitive situation for Swedish hauliers. And this government will never come forward with a proposal that reduces the competitive position of Swedish road hauliers – that is completely unthinkable. One of the important aims of the proposal was that the competitive situation would improve: that a technical solution could increase the monitoring of foreign hauliers driving in Sweden and thus improve the competitiveness of Swedish hauliers. Moreover, the proposed system would not ensure that foreign hauliers were indeed involved and contributed. Another point of the proposal was that foreign hauliers would be involved in paying for the Swedish infrastructure. It's hill isn't fulfilled either. 23 per cent of traffic work is carried out with foreign trucks. Then I think it can be reasonable that they also contribute to the Swedish infrastructure. So it's not a tax on Norrland. It can also be seen as a tax on foreign trucks, so that they can contribute to the Swedish infrastructure. Another thing that we are, of course, looking at more deeply is the importance of this for regional policy and its significance for individual industries. It is a question of studying this more carefully, so that it is a balanced form of this tax.
i-6634fc875becb13d-515	Mr. Old President! I think the Minister of Finance is quite right. I will probably not be satisfied with the answer no matter how long we stand and debate. But let us note that we have two problems that we want to solve! One is about the environment. The Minister of Finance did not mention that much, but that is one problem we have to solve in the haulage and transport sectors. The second is about illegal and unfair foreign competition many times today. The Swedish haulage companies are fighting with unreasonable conditions. Our political task is, of course, to address both of these problems. Then let us take what is about the environment! There is very little to be gained by transferring what is being transported by truck to other modes of transport today. There is something called internalisation. They say: If you were to remove all the possibilities to drive by truck, you could move over 9% of the goods – it is very little – to rail, for example. Then there are better ways if you want to address environmental problems. This is, for example, about what we will be dealing with in this House later this week. These are heavier trucks, that is to say the possibility of loading more on each individual truck. We will then have less emissions per tonne transported and greater environmental impact than the kilometre tax would achieve. As far as illegal foreign competition is concerned, we Moderates have come up with a proposal to deal with precisely this, that is to say, a GPS surveillance with boom systems that would ensure that taxes and charges are paid in Sweden and that laws and regulations are complied with, which is what it is ultimately about, and then we will have to start competing again on equal terms. What scares me a little, Mr. Old President, is that right now the Minister for Finance is saying that you are sitting and looking at a proposal that will enable you to get money from the foreign haulage companies as well. But then my point remains: then this is nothing more than a tax on Norrland. We have long distances in Sweden, and taxing distances is always bad for a country like Sweden. Taxing distances affects the part of Sweden that has the longest distances to handle, that is, Norrland. Then it does not matter if the Minister succeeds in one of his intentions, because then there will eventually be nothing to transport in large parts of our country. There it becomes more expensive because of the distances. Environmental emissions are not taxed. It does not tax in order to achieve a level playing field, but it is taxing distances. Mr. Old President! The map in Europe will not be redesigned in the foreseeable future. Regardless of land increases and other things, Sweden will always have very long distances to handle. The longest distances across Europe are likely to be managed in Norrland, and all taxes targeting distance are hitting Norrland. That is what the CEO of Norrmejerier stated last night in Dorotea when we debated this very point, i.e. that a tax from a distance is a tax on Norrland. As I said, even Sverker Olofsson, who in many respects applauds every tax that is raised in this country, says that this is a tax that strikes with the cape directed towards a certain part of the country, just Norrland. I cannot understand, Mr. Old President, why the government wants to impose taxes on taxes on taxes at a distance. Do you disapprove of those parts of the country that have long distances? I cannot understand that, but the Minister may be able to inform me about this.
i-6634fc875becb13d-524	Mr. Old President! When you listen to Edward Riedl you easily get the impression that a very large proportion of the Swedish truck transport takes place to and from Norrland. It's not like that. I think it is 19% of truck transport from Norrland. This is therefore not a tax directed towards Norrland, but a tax paid by the whole of Sweden. But it is clear that all taxes that we charge on transport can be seen as a tax from a distance. This also applies to the entire CO2 tax, and then I do not know if that tax is something that the Moderates are also opposed to at a distance. When the Moderates oppose this – and the Moderates also cut a lot into the climate and environmental policy that the government has – the question is why the Moderates do not want to take the responsibility that we need to take to stop climate degradation and live up to the Paris Agreement. It is a big problem with Moderate politics that you take environmental work so lightly. Edward Riedl believes that this does not have such great climate effects, as it is difficult to move over. It is quite correct that it is important that we strengthen the possibility of taking more goods on other transports, and that is also why the government is investing heavily in infrastructure, including increasing railway maintenance in order for more to be able to go by rail. It was something that was very neglected when we came into government. One point with a well-designed road wear tax is that it can also steer towards more environmentally friendly vehicles so that it is possible to have a tax level based on how much the vehicles emit.
i-6634fc875becb13d-528	Mr. Old President! Those who listen heard that the Minister of Finance said that there are not so many transports from Norrland. A very large part of the transport that is being carried out in this country is from Norrland, because we have an infinite number of our natural resources in our part of the country. Perhaps the Minister of Finance can, if she can continue her policy, get right in what she says, because if you continue to raise taxes from a distance, it will not be so much transported from Norrland. Then you will seriously damage the base in the Swedish economy. In this way, the Minister may be right, but today she does not. Mr. Old President! Neither I nor the Moderates take lightly the environmental and climate challenges. That is why I said that there are things we can do that have better climate benefits than just punishing distances and thus punishing people who live far away from central cities. There are better ways to deal with this. However, the government's policy is mileage tax, air travel tax, increased petrol tax, increased diesel tax – taxing distances as much as possible. I can answer the Minister for Finance to the question she asked: no, we do not want to increase those taxes from a distance as you wish. We want to go another way. When I listen to the Minister for Finance, I get the impression that she has not met so many of the entrepreneurs who are up in Norrland, whether they a little bigger or the little less. I therefore call on the Minister of Finance to come and visit these parts of the country and meet with those who operate, and she is told clearly what you think about precisely taxation of distances. It's something you don't like very well. The invitation thus comes from Norrland to the Minister for Finance. Come up and meet our entrepreneurs and explain to them why it will be more expensive to transport!
i-6634fc875becb13d-534	Mr. Old President! I have discussed the road-wear tax with many entrepreneurs from different parts of the country. It is 19 percent of the kilometres driven that go from Norrland, and 19 percent go to Norrland. Unfortunately, as far as Moderates' environmental policy is concerned, it is very thin at the moment. On the other hand, when you were in a government position, you actually raised the tax at a distance, namely the petrol tax. We took over in a situation with very large budget deficits. We saw that there was a great need to improve the infrastructure and also fix the holes in welfare while at the same time having to get the state finances in order. This means that this government has carried out a very intensive work to strengthen the infrastructure, strengthen welfare, get more people to work and also ensure that we have the necessary funding. It is clear that with a road wear tax that also allows foreign hauliers to contribute to the Swedish infrastructure increases the opportunities to strengthen the infrastructure throughout the country. It is, of course, about Norrland, but it is also about the routes where it should be possible to move more of the transports that today go by lorry to rail or boat. It is an important work that needs to be done and which also needs to receive revenue. The point of a road wear tax is that you can improve competition for Swedish road hauliers, that we can increase environmental management and that we can improve transport infrastructure across the country.
