i-2345705daf91367b-0	Mr President, I would like to The threat of Islamic extremism is by no means new. For several years now, the secret police have identified Islamist extremism as the biggest security threat for Sweden. Before this threat was confirmed by the Swedish Security Service, the Swedish Democrats warned that demandless policies in several areas could lead to just a real threat from Islamist extremism. At first, the other parties laughed at our warnings. Then all the parties called us a lot of reprehensible things. Then came the first Islamic-motivated terrorist attack in Stockholm on 11 December 2010. Since then, progress has been rapid. Events in Syria and Iraq and the progress of the Islamic State have motivated dormant Islamists throughout Europe to be radicalized in their actions. Sweden, which has had Europe's most demanding policy to curb uncontrolled migration and at the same time had an active policy that has promoted environments where extremism has been able to thrive, did not surprise to stand out when people from Europe began to travel to Syria and Iraq to join the war of terror. With the highest number of terrorist passengers in terms of population, Sweden has also had the border wide open to those terror travelers who have chosen to come back to Sweden. Today, over 150 of them live in our country, and the security situation is challenged to the ultimate breaking point. Unfortunately, the security situation has been challenged once again, on 7 April at Drottninggatan. For some, it was a wake-up call that the threat is real. For others there was an expected defeat in the fight against the Islamic terror war. Mr President, I would like to I hope that this debate will not only highlight the issue of political debt and responsibility, but also provide an opportunity to listen and try to develop our own political position so that together we can become wiser and find a more sustainable way forward for our country.
i-2345705daf91367b-5	Mr President, I would like to On Friday 7 April, what we feared happened and that we had to prepare for. What has affected Copenhagen, Paris and Berlin now also affected Stockholm. Today in the morning, we have been met with the horrendous news that terror has reaped another death. Our thoughts are with the victims and their relatives at this difficult moment. Yet, in the midst of all grief and sorrow, pride fills my heart. It is proud of how the Stockholms and the whole of Sweden reacted to these horrendous events. Police, rescue services, medical care, security guards and many more met this situation with calmness and firmness. The fact that Sweden works, that society stood tall is largely their merit. Together, we have shown terrorism that, although we feel fear and fear at the moment, we do not bow down to those feelings. We do not let fear and despair control our lives. Instead of giving in to the horrors, the Stockholms brought out the finest in themselves. Hassan who sat and had coffee with a friend on Drottninggatan ran out to help the wounded. On the radio he was asked why. He said, "You're human. You can't just put your head in the sand. We are all responsible for each other in a society. ..................................................... Hassan was far from alone in thinking that way. On Friday evening, the Stockholmers opened their homes to those who had been stranded after the attack. Elin at St Eriksplan offered buns, sofa bed and company. Anders at Odenplan welcomed people to dinner. Echling at Södermalm went shopping so that there would be something to eat for those who came to her. Elin, Anders and Echling were just some of those who showed that openness and humanity are stronger than violence and terror. It also showed those who stood up and pushed people across the city, those who handed out fruit and food to our hungry police officers and, of course, all those who just called or sent a text message: How are you? Can I help you with something? ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a fantastic country. Stockholm is an amazing city. And solidarity is an amazing human quality. We can't protect ourselves from everything. But we're gonna do everything we can to protect ourselves. It's been the government maximum since day one. We have criminalised terrorist travel. We have made abuse of Swedish passports more difficult. We have criminalized attempts, preparation and conspiracy to commit a serious weapon offence. We're tightening up the penalties for explosives and hand grenades. We have commissioned more authorities to work to prevent violent extremism and terror. We will strengthen the Security Service's budget by over 600 million over the next few years. We want to introduce secret data reading, so that the secret coercive devices can be used against those who use encrypted platforms such as Viber, Skype or Telegram for their communications. We have also proposed that, as of 1 July this year, it will be possible for the Swedish and other EU intervention forces to help each other cross-border in the event of a terrorist attack. A broad cross-block agreement on counter-terrorism was concluded in December 2015. Several of the measures we have advanced are the direct result of the cooperation between the government and the bourgeois opposition. Mr President, I would like to I think it is a force for Sweden that we stand united against terrorism. I would like to take this opportunity in this House to thank the Mode rata, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats for helping to make Sweden safer and put the nation in front of its own party. The cross-block talks on how to prevent, hinder and prevent terrorism are now continuing. Mr President, I would like to There is much to learn from serious events and how they have been handled. The handling of the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan will be carefully analysed. The Government will therefore commission the Swedish Civil Protection Agency to analyse how the overall management of the initial course of events had an impact on society. MSB should also draw conclusions that may be adequate for society to be able to deal with potentially major events in the future or if several events occur simultaneously. The mission shall also include a description of how the information disseminated in connection with the terrorist attack affected the handling of the incident. It is in this context of interest to highlight the impact of unconfirmed data and rumours on the management of the incident. This is interesting in order for us to draw conclusions for the future of the importance of information provision in the event of serious events. Mr President, I would like to Security and freedom are not each other's opposites, as is sometimes claimed in the debate. The opposite is true. Security and freedom presuppose each other. Freedom without security is just as little worth as security without freedom. Every step we take is to safeguard security, freedom and transparency. Democracy has often been challenged by violence and terror. But every time, democracy has triumphed. And democracy will prevail this time too, Mr President.
i-2345705daf91367b-21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Lena, 69 years old, from Ljungskile was visiting Stockholm. A 31-year-old woman from Belgium was here for the weekend visiting friends. A 41-year-old man, strategic manager of Spotify and father of two boys, was there. A happy 11-year-old who had just spoken to his mother on his cell phone to meet them at the subway was also there. They were murdered when the truck ran amok on the pedestrian street in rush hour. 15 were injured, of which 10 had to stay for hospitalization – we have just learned that another person has died – and there were thousands of shaken and desperate people. So miserable, so terrible and so meaningless are attacks and acts of terrorism. There are no excuses. Society must be relentless and strong in its actions to stop extremist violence. It is the innocent people who are the target of terrorists. It is our open, free and democratic society that they hate. Mr President, I would like to It is good that we are having this current debate today. We have every reason to explain how we view the fight against terrorism and what is to be done in the future in view of what has happened. But before that: counter-terrorism is nothing new, and it is not just a national issue. The task is difficult, and it changes over time, because the work must also be purposeful and long-term. I can inform the Swedish Democrats that Sweden drew conclusions from the occupation of the West German Embassy back in 1975 and has repeatedly in Parliament and at the international level over the years put the issues high on the agenda, and that must be the case. The anti-terrorist agreement reached by most parties in 2015 has also been followed up and followed up. The ongoing talks are part of that work, and we have more to do. I would like to take the example of criminal law. It's kind of a patchwork. This is also the reason for the ongoing review of criminal law in the field of terrorism. We Moderates think that the constitutional review is good and necessary, but we also believe that there needs to be more stringent penalties for recruitment and financing of terrorism, among other things. There the levels are far too low. As this is a topical debate on the events on Drottninggatan, I would like to link something to that event. It concerns public safety and public information. The general impression is that those who came to the site were quick and did an amazing job. Thank you for that! Information quickly became very much of it, but we also know that rumors got started and created confusion. Smuggling images of injured people were sent out over the Internet. In all events of this kind, monitoring and evaluation are required so that we learn for the future. The Norwegians were very quick with it after the events in Oslo and at Utøya. Had I not heard that the government now intends to start work, I had proposed it today. Issues relating to the availability of police officers, their equipment, the coordination and safety of bluelight personnel are things that need to be taken seriously. There are opportunities for improvement. Another almost obvious issue is the police's ability to monitor cameras in strategically important locations. We have all understood and seen the significance of the camera images from the subway for the rapid arrest of the suspect for the attack on Drottninggatan. Here in Parliament, we have also recently decided on an announcement to the government about the possibility of increased camera surveillance in crime-prone locations. The Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party reserved themselves and said no. You want to wait for the current investigation. However, the reports we receive point to the fact that this investigation seems to be heading in quite the opposite direction. My question to Minister of Home Affairs Anders Ygeman is whether we do not have to ensure better opportunities for the police to be able to use camera surveillance in crime-prone locations. In order to prevent acts of terrorism, the intelligence work of the Security Service is also central. As far as terrorism is concerned, it is often a question of cross-border crime, where inspiration and terror come from people and groups across borders. Terrorist travel and modern communication make information from security services in other countries, but also from signal reconnaissance, important. We Moderates have raised the issue before, and we do it again. The police must have better access to information from signal intelligence even when they have begun to suspect a crime. Mr President, I would like to The criminalisation of terrorist travel that we decided on the other year was necessary. We expect that around 300 people have travelled from Sweden to support ISIL/ Daish. Some have returned, others have died and quite a few are still in Iraq or Syria. Today, the situation is such that I si/ Daish has little interest in foreign terrorist fighters if they do not have special skills. That is why it calls on sympathizers to act on their own in their own countries or in other countries. Returners and radicalised people are therefore problems that we have to deal with. We have to keep an eye on those who return, and they will be prosecuted. The Police Authority has written to the Government requesting a review of the possibilities for a more effective and legally secure exchange of information between the cooperating authorities. Given that there are very often confidentiality problems in this work, I think it is a reasonable request that requires rapid handling. Sweden has been hit by the terror with full force. We Moderates have many proposals, 26 proposals in our party movement, which I think would be effective in this work.
i-2345705daf91367b-41	Mr President, I would like to There has been speculation as to what measures could have prevented the terrorist attack on 7 April. The Swedish Democrats have proposed that foreigners who are to be expelled should be detained to a much greater extent than is happening today. As a single party, we have also proposed that the security police should have more resources, including to deal with the situation that the government has welcomed by allowing 150 IS terrorists into our country. At the same time, the Security Service receives a great deal of information about individuals suspected of sympathizing with the Islamic State. Anyone suspected and detained for the 7th of April had an expulsion order, and information had been sent to the security police about suspected IS sympathies. In our world, it is no stranger that the secret police should not only have control over people with obvious will and ability to commit a terrorist attack; in our world, it is also reasonable for the security police to have control over people who have shown some kind of indication of a security threat while being under a deportation decision. But to deal with it, more resources are needed for the Secret Service. Mr President, I would like to The parties that complained most about the police's work with internal checks on foreigners are the parties that are currently in our government. During the last term of office, our current Minister of Justice, Morgan Johansson, felt that the police should give priority to villa crimes rather than hunting illegal immigrants. We have also seen that the police during the Red Green Government have stepped down precisely on the work of finding foreigners who are to be expelled but who are here illegally. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have probably been the party that has most clearly asked for more work on internal immigration controls during this parliamentary term. We have a section of our budgetary effort that touches on that very point. It is an effort on the police that is needed to provide the police with a satisfactory opportunity to cope with an extended mission with more internal foreign controls. However, for the sake of clarity, the work on internal checks on aliens should not be synonymous with preventive work against terrorism. The vast majority to be expelled do not pose a threat to national security. Now it was only the case that the suspect of the terrorist attack of 7 April should have been expelled, and for that reason the issue is raised in this context. In order to briefly comment on the proposals made by the government yesterday that the police should be able to carry out internal checks on foreigners at workplaces, we welcome the newly gained insight into prioritising the work of executing expulsions. We would also like to emphasise that more detention places at the Migration Agency and a clearer mandate to keep more expulsions in custody would reduce the need for more foreigner controls. Mr President, I would like to We have also been very clear on the issue of the Special Alien Control Act, which we believe is designed in such a way that it opens up new threats to national security. Persons who are deemed to pose a threat to national security, who will be expelled by means of the Special Alien Control Act, should of course not be allowed to move freely in our society if Sweden does not succeed in expelling the person. If there is an impediment to enforcement in an expulsion order by a person deemed to pose a risk to national security, that person shall be held in custody – not should, but should be held in custody. Our government must understand that there is no value in being kind to foreigners who declared war on our country and our way of life. This does not mean that our attitude is tantamount to forced detention. The option of leaving the country should be open to these people, but in our country, staying in freedom should no longer be an option. Anders Ygeman has deemed this to be equivalent to sending people to a certain death, which is an honest or deliberate misunderstanding. Mr President, I would like to We do not want to force anyone to be deported to a country where the person risks the death penalty, point. What we want is to ensure that terrorists do not walk freely on our streets. As far as Sweden's commitment is concerned, according to our proposal. If the person wants to return to a country where the person's life is at risk, it should not be up to Sweden to either promote or prevent it. Our responsibility should only extend to restricting the freedom of movement of those who, by law, are not allowed to reside in our country because they pose a threat to the security of the country. In my next speech, I will present a series of proposals for which the Swedish Democrats have worked in the fight against terrorism but which have been voted down by you other parties. Mr President, I would like to The party that warned at the earliest against Islamist extremism and proposed the most repressive and effective measures to prevent terrorist attacks is also the party that was not invited to the government's deliberations on new terrorist laws. No one from the government has even contacted us with questions about the reasons that the government states that we were not invited. From what I've heard, it sounds mostly like conscious misunderstandings for having an excuse to avoid. Mr President, I would like to We fear that our absence in talks about new legislation risks leading to further gaps in legislation which make us still vulnerable to new attacks. If you really want to combat terrorism, it is a good advice to listen to the party that has been most perceptive about the threat of Islamist extremism and what measures are needed to respond to that particular threat.
i-2345705daf91367b-62	Mr President, I would like to On Friday, April 7, three weeks ago today, just before three o'clock in the afternoon, a person stole a truck and began a crazy journey on Drottninggatan here in Stockholm. Five people don't live anymore, and several others have damage to their lives. It is an enormous tragedy for those affected, for relatives, for those who were forced to witness it, for us Stockholmers and for Sweden. Like so many others, I called my relatives to make sure that they were not in central Stockholm. Today I send a thought to all those people who never got hold of their loved ones. We have seen similar attacks elsewhere in Europe. We have known that something could happen here as well. Nevertheless, it is not possible to vaccinate against the fear and shock that terror causes when it strikes. At the same time, we saw with what determination society very quickly joined up and acted, despite the fear. 3 minutes after the first alarm, the police started what is called a special event. It took five minutes for the first police patrol to get to the scene. It took six minutes for the ambulance staff to be there. After 16 minutes, the Stockholm region had started its crisis coordination with 37 different actors. And only two minutes later, the National Task Force was at the scene of the attack. This shows that the police and the community were prepared. I am personally very impressed by the organisation that was set in motion. I would like to thank the police, emergency services and ambulance staff very much for their efforts. In danger of their own lives, they ran against the threat from which others fled. Mr President, I would like to Many heroes are also among the Stockholmers. Civilians helped injured. People opened their homes to each other, organized various relief efforts, and cared for stranded children. The Stockholmers stood up for each other and quickly showed trust where the terrorists want to create mistrust between people. Mr President, I would like to The aim of the terrorists is to instill fear. In that fear they want us to turn against each other and create tensions and hatreds between people of different religions and different ethnicities. But Stockholm responded with love. It is now our responsibility as politicians to continue working to develop measures to prevent, prevent and complicate future terrorist acts. I would like to thank you for the very constructive talks that the government parties continue to have with the four bourgeois parties. I see that we are well placed to continue developing Sweden's resistance to terrorism, as we have done since 2015, when we agreed on a number of concrete measures and the government adopted the Swedish strategy against terrorism. The role of the Green Party in the talks is to present concrete proposals that can actually have an impact on preventing and preventing terrorism, proposals aimed at where they are needed and not blacking out large groups of people. In everything we do, it is essential that we live up to the principles of the rule of law, international conventions and human rights, including the protection of privacy. Mr President, I would like to It is democracy, people and human rights that we are set to defend against those who hate open and democratic society, against the terrorists who want solitude and mistrust between people. Stockholm has shown that we are not backing up for the terrorists. The government and the four bourgeois parties have shown determination in jointly continuing the work to protect democratic society against hatred.
i-2345705daf91367b-71	Mr President, I would like to The world famous superstar and scientist Albert Einstein are said to have said that you should simplify as much as possible but no more. Many people simplify far too much when they debate how best to fight terrorism. Others are making trouble for it all for nothing. Basically, terrorism is like any other criminal activity, albeit extremely serious. I honestly do not care what motives terrorists consider themselves to be, what gods they consider themselves to be affirming and what strange ideas they have about the state of things. They're crazy murderers. They're supposed to be seen as such. As with other crimes, we shall make it as difficult as possible to commit terrorist crimes, but this, of course, without compromising the principles that have not only built our societies strong, but also what the terrorists want to take away from us most of all. I read one of the many wise comments that followed the godless, cowardly and ruthless act of terror on 7 April. I think it was Johan Hakelius who wrote something like that the diversity of society, transparency, that things happen in a decentralised way and are not governed by a single force, is something that it sees as a weakness, drawing on totalitarianism, but is in fact a force. During the hashtag openstockholm, strangers were able to help each other with practical things, completely without government interference and without any other motivation than an honest benevolence of fellow humans. Sometimes people seem to confuse the idea of the strong society with the idea of the strong state. I guess that's where a lot of people go wrong. The society built from below by a large and wide variety of people and businesses is so much stronger and more secure than that which allows the state to try to govern everywhere. In another article, one could read about the frustration of right-wing extremists over human reactions to the act. They had hoped for hatred, that the Swede would now walk out of the house and quit behind I don't really know what – what these people seem to think is the right and the right thing to do. Instead, we allowed our grief to blossom. We met each other's eyes and felt consensus and sympathy in this difficult moment, old and young, short and long, light and dark. It is in moments like these that our society is being tested. It is our duty and responsibility not least to those who suffer that we learn what we can from these terrible events and that we clearly identify what worked well and what needs to be done better. The police, both the open police and the secret police, deserve great praise for their efforts. I am so impressed by how quickly so many police officers could be in place and how, despite a chaotic atmosphere, one managed to establish some kind of sense of control in the midst of all this insane. Thank you for your fine work! I would also like to turn to the government, which handled this well, according to the circumstances. Everyone who knows me and my political deed knows that I have great problems with very much of the policies of the Social Democrats. I think that the Prime Minister rarely shows the necessary leadership and that we must have a new alliance government after the next elections. But at this point, I would like to thank both the Minister for Home Affairs and the Prime Minister sincerely and heartily. You made a difficult moment for the entire Swedish people less difficult with resolute action and stable information efforts. I wish politics could be more about good political leadership. It is a threatened art that is challenged by populism and hate månggleri. The absolute zero point of political leadership is to try to make short-term points in exploiting people's fears and cultivating hatred and mistrust. I hope and believe that this is a transitory trend that will end with the development of humanity. I hope it goes quickly, because it is now going the wrong way. Between the good leadership and the hate moons, there are those who believe, or pretend, that there are simple solutions to terrorism or other serious crimes, that there would be some quick fix. It would just be pushing on with more repression, more police or technical gadgets. To be honest, if you think so, you are not ready for the task of leading the work of building a secure society. First of all, we must have a legal policy that is consistent. We need to secure the entire functioning of the justice chain from prevention, both practical and social, to penitentiary with lock-out and follow-up. Then there is everything in between, such as police officers with reasonable working conditions, competent civilian personnel who contribute with expertise and relieve the burden, competent prosecutors and fair courts. It is also about having a society that is connected where everyone who lives in our country feels that there is a possibility that if you are willing to work hard there is the opportunity to work for what you dream about. It's about being allowed to succeed and fail, that it's okay to try and okay to give up sometimes. It is about seeing each other with a little more goodwill than envy and being able to enjoy the success of others without being jealous. I think the key is that we all feel that society and life are also for me, that we are part of all this and that we are allowed to be part of it. We can and can participate in society if we want to. We can get a job, get into an education or start building a life, a valuable life. Maybe we can start a family, watch a little guy or girl grow up and do just the opposite everything we try to get them to do but still make us infinitely proud. Unfortunately, that is not the reality today. Tudiation cuts hard through Sweden. Then I am not talking about some kind of strained class theory from the past century, but about how walls are built up against those outside the labour and housing markets and how the student is prevented from developing his talent because the school environment does not work or because social standards in an honorary context put a stop to it. It is about how parents' exclusion creates social barriers and how crime on the one hand creates insecurity and, on the other hand, offers the opportunity to make quick money for those who are prepared to take that step. Mr President, I would like to We need a good policy for jobs and entrepreneurship in order to build a secure society and to meet internal and external threats.
i-2345705daf91367b-86	Mr President, I would like to Three weeks ago, Sweden suffered another terrorist attack. In the middle of Stockholm's pounding artery, a truck drove into a crowd during Friday afternoon's rush. Five people died and many more were shocked. But Sweden and the Swedish people did not act with panic but with solidarity. People opened their homes and offered food and sleeping places to those who could not get home. The next day Stockholm was filled with flowers, love messages and hugs to the police. What many people wanted was calmness and that politics should not jump to conclusions or act in an affect. What has happened is the opposite. Virtually the only political party has competed to act most energetically and tossed forward ill-considered proposals that violate both the constitution and human rights. Terrorism is a threat that we take very seriously, whether in Syria, Pa ris, Norway, Trollhättan or Stockholm. But the Left Party is not interested in participating in the absurd political game that is currently taking place. We must dare to keep our heads cold and our hearts warm in this context, not to jump to conclusions or to propose such measures or legislation. The Left Party wants to combat and combat terrorism with effective, legally secure and balanced methods. We must stand up for democratic principles laid down in the Constitution and be able to balance various legitimate interests – law enforcement and civil security on the one hand, and the rule of law and integrity on the other – when we legislate. Moreover, many of the proposals debated in the media are designed to prevent exactly what has already happened in Stockholm. But there is also a need for measures to prevent such terrorist acts carried out by Anders Behring Breivik in Oslo and Anton Lundin Pettersson in Trollhättan. The next terrorist attack can take place in the subway or at an airport, just like in Brussels. That is why we need a pool of knowledge, analysis and proposals which not only prevent what has already happened, but also what must not happen. What is happening right now is that it focuses solely on violent Islamist extremism. It is almost that one can think that only certain men with a particular religion or background can commit terrorist crimes, but that is not the case. We take terrorism and extremist acts equally seriously, whether they are motivated by right-wing or religious reasons. Jihadism and right-wing extremism are equally so that their violent ideas are patriarchal, conservative, and militant. They are fueled by each other and are interdependent on creating a distorted hate image of open society. Muslims are blacked out in the debate and accused of being terrorists. It is part of Daish's goal that all Muslims should stigmatise from the open society and seek the Islamic state. It is also what anti-Muslim fascist and xenophobic forces want, that Muslims should be the evil and the white and the Swedish the good. Jihadists and racists go hand in hand in their fight against the diversity of society. That's also why both Daish and white power environments work according to the single wolf theory, that the attacking terrorist is a lonely person without a network around him. This is usually not the case. The attacks stem from the same attacks on diversity, open society and, basically, our democracy. Therefore, all extreme environments must be countered. Therefore, political proposals cannot focus solely on Islamic violence-promoting extremism. There is a lot of work going on around Sweden to counteract violent extremism. The Left Party wants an evaluation of the knowledge centres and would like to see more of them set up, more research on anti-democratic messages online and in social media, a national knowledge centre, raising the knowledge of soc ionomers and school staff, media and information literacy in schools and more knowledge about how recruitment in social media is done. The work of the National Coordinator will continue and, above all, all municipalities need an action plan. Cities should be designed so that they are safe and secure and so that terrorist attacks with large vehicles cannot occur. Extremism and terrorism do not disappear by themselves. Together, we must build a strong, solidarity-free and equal society free from terror. To do so requires stubborn politicians, courageous officials and a committed society.
i-2345705daf91367b-99	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to send my thought to the victims and relatives who were affected by the horrendous terrorist attack in Stockholm on 7 April. On behalf of the Liberals, I would also like to express our warm thanks to the police, civil protection, health care and a public who demonstrated in a fantastic way what Swedish democracy stands for. That is not what we hear here from the populist right, who wants to divide, exaggerate and frighten. Nor is that what we hear from the left – the irresponsible left that goes up and says no to every proposal that we have put forward against extremism, against radicalisation and against terrorism. I am very pleased that the Government, the Prime Minister and the Minister for the Interior took the decision not to invite the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party to the terrorist talks that have begun for the second time. This debate is remarkable in that it comes far too soon to the horror that once again struck Sweden, our capital and our democracy. It's way too soon. Liberals do not want to engage in speculation or opinion without facts and without the process having taken its course. We have people who are still being cared for in hospitals. Today we were told the tragic and sad news that another person died of his injuries during the attack. We have people who are suspected but not yet charged. We have people being questioned and released. This is an ongoing legal process in our democracy. I therefore think that inviting a debate on 7 April was premature. But of course, Mr President, we want to take part in this important debate in order to rise up a little and to speak in general about how we want to tackle the extremism and radicalisation that has been challenging our democratic values every day for many years now. In these parts, we in the Liberals have pointed out the need for prevention. We have far too many vulnerable areas and particularly vulnerable areas where many of the extremism environments thrive. That is where we are radicalising, that is where we are involved in funding and that is where we are in calling for and recruiting for these Islamic terrorist organisations or other types of terrorist organisations. This is where we have to do our homework. I agree with the government and the scientists who have said that it is impossible to control and control so-called solitary terrorists. We cannot create a society in which we control exactly every individual in our kingdom. On the other hand, we must be much better at approaching the areas, radicalists and extremists that challenge our democracy, our equality and our openness. There's a homework. It is no secret that for many years we from the Liberals have had a number of debates both with the government and, not least, with the Green Party's responsibility in the government. We believe that they have not managed this portfolio in the government. We maintain our demand that issues of radicalisation and extremism be moved to the Ministry of Justice under the Ministry of Home Affairs or the Minister of Justice. It is extremely vulnerable when Sweden with over 300 people who have travelled to terrorist organisations, of which about half have returned here, does not yet have a readiness and a capacity that allows us to tell at least about them: What are they doing? Are they dangerous? Why are they out in town? Why aren't they in custody? We have said, for our part, that the security police should be given the opportunity to make it compulsory for all those who return. Encouraging authorities, and facilitating legislation, so that checks can be initiated on all returnees. Mr President, I would like to This is part of the problem. Then we have a target group in our society that does not accept Swedish values and Swedish democracy. It is an extremist and violent environment. Unfortunately, Linda Snecker, but violent Islamist extremism is the greatest threat to our Swedish democracy. Then we have problems with the white power environment. We see that, not least in areas in Dalarna. We see that they want to silence, threaten and change our society with violence. But violent Islamist extremism is the greatest threat to our Swedish democracy. That is why, economically, politically and in our society, we must prioritise our resources to attack those who do not support and believe in our democracy.
i-2345705daf91367b-108	Mr President, I would like to The attack on Drottninggatan leaves no one unmoved. We honor the five people who were killed. We think of their relatives and friends. Mr President, I would like to Violent Islamism does not attack states or structures. Its objectives are not political leaders, military or institutions. The practitioners leave no warning and show no remorse. From the battlefields of Syria and Iraq to the attacks of recent years in France, Belgium, Germany, Great Britain and Sweden, the message is as simple as black: anyone who is not who we deserve to die. The terrorist attack in Stockholm has in all darkness also shown Sweden's great forces. Fearless policemen quickly managed to arrest a suspected terrorist. Rescue personnel went beyond their normal duties to save lives. The Stockholms went out of the house to show solidarity and community. So much flowers were left at Åhléns that a fence was almost collapsing. Mr President, I would like to The signal was clear: Sweden is not folding to the terrorists. Our task now is to ensure that Sweden continues to stand strong. It is important to understand that these attacks are taking place in a context. Although we do not yet know all the details of the investigation, the currently under arrest suspected terrorist appears to have been inspired by and sympathetic to IS. The suicide bomber Taimour Abdulwahab, who struck on Drottninggatan around Christmas 2010, must have had contact with Al-Qaeda and referred himself to IS. Although they seem to have acted alone, they are not alone madmen, but part of a violent Islamist movement that must be fought. The violence-promoting Islamism is the biggest security threat to Sweden, according to the security police. At the same time, Islamists are not alone in the willingness to use violence and terror in their struggle. In Gothenburg, three Nazis with links to the Nordic Resistance have been arrested for bombing the Syndicalist Forum and a refugee residence, as well as an unsuccessful attack on another refugee residence. We can never, never accept organised political violence. We must stand united against the terror. That is why we have welcomed the government's invitation to new talks as a continuation of the agreement against terrorism that we concluded in December 2015. In these talks, we are taking Christian Democrats with our proposals to strengthen the Swedish police and to combat terrorism. Sweden can and will do more in the fight against terrorism. We must further increase our capacity to combat terrorism, and at the same time we must combat the roots of terrorism. Mr President, I would like to The police must be given the means to carry out their basic task: to guarantee order and security. More police are needed to prevent terror. We've proposed 10,000 more police officers. We have also recently heard the Social Democrats propose 10 000 more police workers – this despite the fact that, as recently as March, they called, among other things, our proposals for more police officers for a Although we welcome the turnaround from Anders Ygeman and his comrades in the government and the Social Democrats, I note that this is a remarkable turn. However, the discussion must not stop at the number of police officers. The most important thing for getting more police officers is to increase the attractiveness of the profession by making a strong effort on increased police salaries and better working conditions. The police officers who are first in place in terrorist attacks are ordinary police officers in external service, and therefore they need the right training, but also the right equipment, to be able to handle and act in the event of terrorist attacks. We saw fantastic efforts here in Stockholm from the police, but we have also heard from several police officers that the right equipment was missing and that some were in the wrong size. We from the Christian Democrats have proposed in our shadow budget a strong commitment to better protective equipment so that more police officers have helmets, heavy vests and reinforcement weapons in the cars. We also think it is necessary for the Police Authority to have its own training and training facilities, which is something that is missing today according to the Police Authority. We believe that it is incredibly important for the police to have training places for tactical training in order to further strengthen the fight against terrorism. The police have also called for increased opportunities for support from the Swedish Armed Forces for protection and security in the event of terrorist attacks. Today, the police cannot ask for assistance for security in public places, but only for special shelters. It is a change of law that the Police Authority itself has proposed. We also believe that it is necessary to review how camera surveillance can be used more by the police. We saw, as many have been involved in the debate, the importance of camera surveillance within SL's camera surveillance network. We believe that the police will also be able to use camera surveillance in more strategic locations. These are combined measures that the police themselves have asked for. We in the Christian Democrats believe that we must provide the police with the tools and resources needed to combat terrorism and increase our security and to be even better equipped if further terrorist attacks were to take place. These are proposals that we have put forward in our budget but also proposals that we put forward in the talks that are going on with the government. I would like to welcome other parties to join in the constructive talks that are taking place.
i-2345705daf91367b-123	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking both the tone and the constructiveness of this debate. Most of the speeches that have been made have shown that there is a common will to move forward. Although I do not share the view of all the details of all the proposals that have been made, I can promise the Government that we will do our utmost to agree on things that strengthen Sweden's ability to resist the terror. Two issues were raised in the debate. Beatrice Ask asked: Do we need to ensure the police's ability to monitor crime-prone locations? My simple answer to that question is yes. It turns out that the investigative basis that will not be sufficient, I do not close the door to further investigate certain parts of it to ensure that ability. The Swedish Democrats ask me why they have not been invited to the talks. The answer is that you do not stand up for the national strategy that forms the basis of the talks. Your one-eyedness sows split and division in a nation that needs strength and unity. All you see is a possible assassin. In your world, terror has a skin color and a religion. You do not want to hear that the worst terrorist in the Nordic countries, who was a member of your sister party for five years, is named Anders. You do not want to hear that he who stabbed schoolchildren in Trollhättan was called Anton, that the three right-wing extremists suspected of attacks in Gothenburg are called Jimmy, Anton and Viktor or that the left-wing extremist who stabbed a man in Kärrtorp is called Joel. I answered Adam Marttinen's question, so I would like to ask Adam Marttinen a question. Why do the Swedish Democrats in their motion to Parliament want to give police and security police the opportunity to register ethnicity, sexual orientation and membership in trade union movements? Why do you want to give the police the opportunity to do database searches on citizens' sexual preferences? How would this make Sweden safer? I would be grateful if Adam Marttinen could answer that question.
i-2345705daf91367b-127	Mr President, I would like to It is good that we got the Home Secretary here so that we got the answer yes to the question of whether we need better conditions for camera surveillance, as a majority in Parliament actually thinks. We are in complete agreement, and you will have to talk to your fellow party members about it later, the Minister for Home Affairs. There are several important points to be raised in this debate. The first is that Anders Ygeman and many others highlight the solidarity and compassion that many people have made. That's good. But the questions we have to ask ourselves are: what can citizens expect of us politicians and of society? What are the state and public authorities going to do? There is much to improve here. I think it's important to say. We cannot rely on the commitment of individual people when it comes to things this serious. One of the most important tasks of the state is to secure the country from this kind of deed. Another important issue is the question of the task force. It was up here earlier. The government thinks we should strengthen the task force and point to Atlas cooperation. Unfortunately, we do not have time to ask foreign police authorities for help in the event of an attack. It shows what happened in Norway; it shows the attacks in Paris. We need to tighten up domestic capacity. That is why the Moderates believe that the National Task Force should be able to intervene in two places at once, and we continue to push this issue. Cooperation with other countries is good – we need to help each other – but we also need to see that these are actions that require a very short suspension period. To Adam Marttinen and to others, I would like to say that we must, of course, have better arrangements for reception and border controls. There's no doubt about it. But refugees are not a security risk by definition. It is so incredibly tragic that it is constantly repeated that refugees are to be seen as a problem. On the other hand, there is a risk that the flow of refugees, and strong ones, as well as unclear procedures in relation to reception and asylum procedures, will be exploited by criminals. People in affect and despair are also easier for extreme organizations to recruit and influence. That is why we need to work on the order of the asylum process. We must work to ensure that people who have been rejected leave the country and a series of such measures. There we have Moderates many clear proposals. I might not remind you of that, but the Alliance Government received a lot of criticism in connection with the REVA debates because we gave the police, the migration authorities and others the task of doing what we are required to do under the Schengen acquis, namely to ensure that the internal control of foreigners works. There is certainly a lot more to do here, and we have to work on that. We also need more detention because we have had a very large flow of refugees, and we will have many to be rejected. Then you can expect more people not to leave immediately. It may be that in the amount of people who have arrived, more people need to be taken into custody, and then that possibility needs to be tested, as well as of course different variants of how it can be handled. It's very important. Finally, I would like to say that I am very proud of my alliance partners. It is almost nothing that you say that I do not think is wise and interesting. Let me conclude by saying a little carelessly what Mr Roger said very well: we cannot keep track of everything in our society, but we must be better at approaching the people who are in vulnerable areas. That's exactly what it is. The most dangerous risk for us in the long term is the vulnerable areas, shadow society and the risk of parallel legal systems. It must be handled if we are to prevent things like what happened on Drottninggatan in the long term.
i-2345705daf91367b-138	Mr President, I would like to Conscious misunderstandings seem to be the melody of my opponents to this debate. Conversations are the prerequisite for clarifying such misunderstandings, but, as we know, we have not seen any interest in talks. There are probably many of us who have been asked by journalists over the last few weeks about what new measures we want to take to counter new attacks, but I am probably quite alone in not having a really good answer to these questions. Our proposals are not very new in any way. They have been handled here in the Riksdag in different contexts and voted down by the other parties, sometimes in several rounds. A vote in Parliament dealing with issues related to terrorism was in the motion report on procedural law that we debated in this House on 6 April, that is, the day before the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan. The Swedish Democrats then proposed that return IS terrorists who have managed to enter our country should be automatically detained for investigation into the legislation in place. We also proposed increased camera surveillance even at places that are not particularly exposed to crime, as we were told, and that the police should have access to the material as needed. It has turned out that the police in other countries have benefited greatly from camera surveillance in order to quickly find terrorists and counter new attacks. This proposal was voted down by all the other parties, even though you say in this debate that you are calling for it. If we go back a few years in time to autumn 2015, when the government developed the Swedish Counter-Terrorism Strategy, Preventing, Preventing and Obstructing, we had a follow-up motion with proposals that we considered complementary to the government's strategy paper, including punishing any form of participation in or support for terrorist organisations. There's something that recognizes. More specifically, it is precisely that proposal which is on everyone's lips today, but in 2015 it was voted down. Following the terrorist attack on 7 April, the Minister of Justice has just highlighted the criminalisation of participation in terrorist organisations. Johansson has said that the Government's strategy Preventing, preventing and making more difficult contains gaps that are now to be closed, including with the very proposal that the Swedish Democrats requested when the Government's strategy paper was adopted in 2015. Another proposal we put forward at the time was to ban propaganda for terrorism. Today, propaganda for terrorism is spread in social media, in religious congregations, and in many other contexts. It is precisely banning propaganda for terrorism and criminalising participation in terrorist organisations that are necessary proposals to create an opportunity to punish terrorists who may have travelled to the Middle East and have participated in the terror war in various ways, but where individual actions can be difficult to prove in court. These new criminalisations make it easier to prosecute these terrorists and, at the same time, to take measures to counter the spread of terrorist propaganda. I would also like to comment on what the government, through Anders Ygeman, has said it never wants to consider, a proposal that is a reality in many European countries: to deprive the citizenship of people who have chosen to wage war for the Islamic State, for example. We have both proposed that people with dual citizenship should be deprived of Swedish citizenship and then expelled for life and to investigate how we can withdraw citizenship for those who have only one Swedish. On a straight question whether the Swedish Democrats, through our political power, want to work to ensure that there are more or fewer Islamic terrorists in our country, the Swedish Democrats are in fact the only party that can really claim that we are working to make it fewer. Through the attitude of all the other parties to the issue of citizenship, you have accepted that 150 Islamic terrorists have been able to return to Sweden. You have guaranteed these terrorists an unconditional right to reside in Sweden as Swedish citizens for the rest of their lives. This, Mr President, is an unforgivable betrayal which I hope the voters will value in the next elections.
i-2345705daf91367b-153	Mr President, I would like to I will never sit down and negotiate with a racist party that uses fear as a bat to pursue a policy that violates unconditional human rights. The Swedish Democrats' proposal to exclude Swedish citizens who are suspected of having committed terrorist offences from coming back to Sweden means in practice that we introduce impunity for acts committed by Swedish citizens in Syria, for example. Instead, we must do what we can to ensure that people who have travelled from Sweden to commit detestable acts in other countries are brought to justice and sentenced to prison. The policy of the Swedish Democrats is a policy that helps terrorists to continue their atrocities elsewhere. I will never support that. Mr President, I would like to Today, legislation already provides tools for arresting and arresting persons suspected of having committed terrorist attacks, whether in Sweden or abroad. That is not to say that the laws on terrorism need not be improved. The Green Party has long noted that the legislation was a patchwork that came about on many different occasions to incorporate various conventions from international sources. We have therefore worked towards a broad review of the legislation that will make the legislation clearer, more useful and more effective and also more legally secure. I look forward to it leaving its results. At the same time, there is a need to rapidly review certain parts of the legislation, for example as regards participation in a terrorist organisation, and I look forward to continuing discussions on how we, together with the bourgeois parties, can move forward with developing the legislation. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to say a few words about the work against violent extremism. It is a work that continues to be under development. My aim and that of the Green Party is that the work of the national coordinator should be permanent, developed and able to become more operational in order to better support all those municipalities that do not have the resources to deal with these very difficult, complex and important issues themselves. However, I would like to stress that from the outset the approach of this work has been broad. We know that open, democratic society is being challenged from several quarters. Right now, Nazi bombings are being investigated against political opponents and refugees. We know that Nazis will demonstrate on May 1st and in the Alme Valley. It also triggers violent left-wing extremists. Mr. Talma! This work must continue.
i-2345705daf91367b-163	Mr President, I would like to In an increasingly uncertain world with a capricious power in the East, a no longer fully predictable ally in the West, a Europe that is in danger of being torn apart and a France where the friends of the Swedish Democrats in the Front National can actually win the presidential power, we must afford to strengthen our war-resisting ability and our external and internal security. In order to ensure the proper functioning of the rule of law at home, we must also invest. All of this, of course, costs money. From the Center Party we see the need, and in order for all people throughout the country to be able to feel reasonable security, in our proposal for our budget, we are making a contribution to the police of 9 billion. In addition to this, we have efforts to strengthen the police in the fight against terrorism. We need police officers to stay in business. For some police officers, it is also desirable to remain in the same position for a long time in order to build the confidence needed for people to have the courage to trust the police. Running with a budget is a bit like steering with a rope. If you withdraw funds, activity disappears immediately, but it is not automatically so that new activities get started just because you are raising funds. Other driving forces and good leadership are needed. Such good leadership must be at all stages – from this legislative level, through government control of the authorities to the authorities' own management systems. Otherwise, it won't be possible. Mr President, I would like to Of course, resources are also needed. The police must have better working conditions. The most important working environment factor is probably that you feel that you can do a good job if you make an effort. That is certainly not the case for all the police today. The frustration is great, and many feel inadequate. They need to be increased, and in our budget option, we say first of all that the police are being provided with resources to train and hire 2 000 new police officers for the coming years. To keep the police in the profession and to make all the police feel if not bet on, so at least seen, we allocate funds for increased police salaries of SEK 2,000 a month. It may not be that much, but it shows that we take their situation seriously. In order to free up more hours of police work for security and law enforcement, we also set aside funds for 1,300 more civilian employees. The police's request shows that they need SEK 200 million annually in order to step up their efforts to combat terrorism. They shall be used to strengthen the national response concept and the national response team. This EUR 200 million is also included in our draft budget. But if you only invest in the police, other bottlenecks will be built up. We must see the whole chain of justice and strengthen it in all its ranks. If we invest in the police, it should also be able to be exchanged in greater security in the streets and squares. Both the Swedish Prosecution Authority and the National Forensic Centre have signalled the need for reinforcement, and already there are long waiting times with the latter. This has potentially serious consequences. The longer a criminal investigation drags on, the colder the tracks become. Witnesses have time to forget, people move and the victim has to wait for his redress. For legal proceedings to work, good witness protection is required. Police officers with whom we have spoken tell us that witness protection, although the problem of people not having the courage or willingness to testify is widely known, is underfunded and that it is too slow when it has to be coordinated with the municipalities and the social services. We are therefore investing an additional 1 billion to strengthen the justice chain in all its parts. This will allow more criminals to be tried, more everyday crimes to be solved and the police better equipped to face, prevent and prosecute terrorists. Discussions are currently taking place between the government and the alliance parties to develop the common strategy. I will not mention all the proposals that the Center Party has recorded in this, but I would like to highlight the most important point: criminalisation of associations with terrorist organisations. This in itself makes sense, and it would solve many practical problems.
i-2345705daf91367b-178	Mr President, I would like to Since the Left Party considers terrorist acts to be a terrible act that threatens both democracy and open society, we would very much like to discuss this issue with other parties in order to find solutions that reduce violent extremism. When the first part of the terror legislation, which deals with funding, education and travel, came in 2015, the Left Party was critical of the final proposal. However, we were involved in negotiating the proposal and were able to take on board and add points that we think are good in the agreement. In particular, I would like to remind the Liberals that they support the Left Party's policy on how we combat terrorism. But the Left Party did not stand up for the final product, and as the negotiations continued, one of the demands was that the Left Party back in its policy to be able to participate in the conversation. I'll explain to you why we're having trouble doing that. We cannot go back on this policy, because the criminalisation that has been proposed concerns actions that are far from the terrorist act itself in both time and space. In many cases, everyday actions, such as travel, opening an email, giving gifts to family members, and providing grants for humanitarian projects, are criminalised. Our criticism in 2015, which still remains, is that the legislation now means that a person who gets on an airport shuttle on his way to Arlanda and intends to travel to join Daish but repents, steps off the bus and chooses to go home instead of stepping on the plane has committed a criminal act, a terrorist crime, just by starting the journey to Arlanda. We do not think this is a good way of legislating. The Left Party considered that the possibilities for prosecution of this legislation could be expected to be limited and thus ineffective, while the legislative proposals involve far-reaching criminalisation and a restriction of human rights and freedoms. We also thought it would be difficult to prove in court and get a conviction. There has been only one prosecution with the new terror law, and it fell into Svea Court of Appeal. What we in the Left Party were worried about has now happened. We therefore find it difficult to reverse this policy as we now see what is happening in Sweden's courts. It is also difficult to take the proposals of certain parties seriously. Bourgeois parties react with the spinal reflex and believe that more surveillance and more criminalisation is the solution. That's how bourgeois parties usually react. But the party that has completely lost its political compass is the Green Party, and this is something I very much regret. The Green Party proposes that anklets – which are a means of executing prison sentences – should be used for people who have neither committed any crime nor are convicted criminals. It can be seen that the Left Party would have been needed in the terrorist talks. The Left Party does what so many people want: we make sure that the terrorist attack does not become a political throwaway, that we do not rush away in legislation and that we do not make party politics of such a serious event.
i-2345705daf91367b-188	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Liberals have put forward a number of proposals also throughout the time we have been in opposition. I will come back to them, but I first have a few comments to make to the Swedish Democrats, who have today initiated this debate. Should we have a rule of law? Should we have a constitutionally protected activity, for example in the case of citizens? I hear what Adam Marttinen says: Those with dual citizenship will have their Swedish withdrawn. I also take it that he wants to ban returnees and even expel people a little anyway. These are not the principles of the rule of law. You have two minutes left, Adam Marttinen. Tell me what you want to do with those born in Vivalla in Örebro municipality or in Bergsjön in Gothenburg municipality. These are Swedish citizens, young men, who are, admittedly, under criminal pressure and commit very serious crimes. They will be prosecuted. But tell me how to deal with those who were born in Sweden and have Swedish citizenship. Surely there must be fundamental principles somewhere that we must uphold. For the Liberals, citizenship is one. The Left Party says that these are ill-considered proposals that violate the Constitution. I have participated in these talks, both those that were held in 2015 and those that were in progress, and we are, as far as I am aware, trying to build on the UN decision. In autumn 2014, the UN Security Council issued a binding call to all Member States to take all measures not only to stop and prosecute terrorists but also to prevent terrorism. That is why, for example, we must criminalise terrorist travel, as we have done. The preparation and financing of a terrorist journey is, of course, also a terrorist offence in one way. Do you have to drive a truck along Drottninggatan or blow yourself up outside a certain place for committing a terrorist crime? We must also prevent terrorist offences, and that is why many of these proposals come into place. We can go further down in prevention. We have several suggestions. We've been talking about camera surveillance. Of course I have heard your critical remarks. We have talked about tougher measures against organisations and religious communities that should not have government subsidies. We are being accused, not least by the Left Party, of pursuing a policy that generalises and condemns, for example, all Muslims. I would definitely like to distance myself from that analysis and conclusion. Those we are talking about are violent Islamic extremists. I myself was born in Lebanon, a small country with Muslims and Christians. Civil war has forced both Christians and Muslims from Lebanon to, for example, Europe and Sweden to live in a modern and democratic society. I believe that the lion's share of Muslims who have gone to Sweden have that background and are of that opinion. However, there is a small part of the issue of extremism, and that is what this debate is about. But even there, the Left Party does not meet us in any of these measures. This debate has shown that we continue to need prosecution resources and camera surveillance, as well as the importance of storing data traffic and mobile traffic in order to prevent and stop terrorists. We will enter into privacy-sensitive discussions. In previous debates we have touched on those issues and they will come up again. If we are to prevent terrorism and extremism, we will have to reconsider certain decisions.
i-2345705daf91367b-197	Mr President, I would like to I mentioned in my last speech what we can do to increase the police's ability to combat terror. As I said, the common police forces in external service are the first to be in place in the event of an attack, and that is why protective equipment and reinforcement weapons need to be more widely present in the cars. We also want to double the task force – that is what we have in our draft budget – in order to increase our responsiveness and to enable the task force to be in place in the event of, for example, two attacks at the same time. What I was going to mention now is that we also need to fight the roots of terror. Violence-promoting Islamism must be combated. Despite the first attempted attacks of 11 December 2010, no work has yet been done to break up recruitment environments. The fact is that there has even been an unwillingness to recognise the existence and extent of the problem. In recent years, warning calls have come from Eskilstuna. There Abshir Osman testifies that it has been easier as a Muslim to express support for IS than disgust. We have received reports from schoolyards, where teachers report that it is easier for students to get involved in the jihadi cool culture and express support for IS than to distance themselves from it. In Borås, the police were shocked when their own survey found that there were nearly 100 IS sympathisers. Researchers such as Magnus Ranstorp and Peder Hyllengren have tried to describe the environments where violent Islamism germinates. They have been faced with distrust and denial. They have allegedly lived in an anti-Muslim fantasy world. In this way legitimate concerns about violent Islamism have been labeled Islamophobia. We are talking here about extreme Islamists. It's not about Muslims, it's about extreme Islamists. It is a small minority of Sweden's Muslims who support violent Islamism. In the process of identifying extremists, warnings often come first from other Swedish Muslims. But they need the support of responsible politicians, from the Government of Sweden and the whole of society. We Christian Democrats have proposals to give the Living History Forum an expanded mandate to inform about the crimes of violent Islamism and to make the national coordinator against violent extremism subject to the MSB. It may also be possible to submit that work to another authority to permanence the work of the coordinator against violent extremism. We also think that the responsibility of the state needs to be increased. We have set aside 30 million in our budget for the government's responsibility to increase by, for example, having expert teams from the state that operationally relieve the municipalities in their work, especially where IS recruitment areas are largest, in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and Örebro. The fight against the roots of terrorism must be taken more seriously, while at the same time increasing our capacity to combat terrorism. In this context, I would also like to highlight a proposal that we, the Christian Democrats, have been pursuing for a long time. It is a question of criminalising relations with terrorist organisations – a proposal that we have put forward for decades. Organisations seeking to commit crimes should not be able to invoke the freedom of association. Such a restriction is no more spectacular than the act of incitement against ethnic groups, which restricts freedom of expression. The government is now opening up to this, but the day before the attack it voted against such a proposal in the Swedish parliament. We welcome the fact that there is a swing here too. But this is a proposal that we have been pursuing for a long time. We think it goes without saying that we should criminalise relations with terrorist organisations. It is not part of the freedom of association, but these organisations threaten the freedom of association.
i-2345705daf91367b-207	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that I think that both Linda Sneckers and Adam Marttinen's contributions clearly illustrate why they have not been invited to the further talks on terrorism. Then one has to ask why the Swedish Democrats have asked for this debate when they do not even dare to debate their own proposals. I answered Adam Marttinen's question, but he did not answer my question. Moreover, he seems to be lying, or at least he has changed his mind about the previous proposals of the Swedish Democrats. For Adam Marttinen's sake, I will quote the SD legal spokesperson on expulsion when one is at risk of death or torture: That's a pretty clear statement. Have you now turned, when the legal spokesperson is waiting for a court hearing for assault? Well, then you'll have to express it in the speaker's chair, Adam Marttinen. I answered Adam Marttinen's question. Adam Marttinen did not even try to debate or answer my question about the proposals of the Swedish Democrats. Why do the Swedish Democrats think it is urgent that the police and security police should be able to register homosexuals? Why do the Swedish Democrats think that the police or security police should be able to register union members? In what way do the Swedish Democrats believe that this possibility would make Sweden safer? Adam Marttinen and the Swedish Democrats have now requested a debate in the Swedish Parliament. Then take the chance to try to debate, and answer questions, as democratic parties do!
i-2345705daf91367b-212	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit strange when we are going to discuss something as serious as terrorism and acts of terrorism that the discussion keeps returning to the question of who was first. With the experience I have, I can see that these issues have been on the agenda for many years. Not least from the Moderates, we have often pushed these questions. It is important that the content and detailed basis of the proposals are available on paper. I mentioned in my opening speech our party motion on counter-terrorism. It contains 26 concrete proposals which have been worked out. These are issues that we have been working on for many years. I believe, for example, that the Security Service's ability to access information from signal reconnaissance has been involved in my work for at least ten years. It has not been an easy question. It is not a simple question and will not be a simple question, but it is necessary. Democracy works in the way that it is not enough just to have ideas. We must also convince more people and achieve a majority. Since the security and security of the country is one of the most important tasks of the state, we Moderates believe it is urgent to work with as many people as possible to ensure that we achieve what the citizens can expect. Therefore, it is also important to be sensitive and to listen. Then it doesn't work when someone stands in the corner and says, "I was first!" And when it's not true. Had the Swedish Democrats been around in the 18th century, when Jonas Alströmer introduced the potatoes, you would first take the credit from him today and then claim that the Swedish Democrats had not existed in the 18th century, we would not have had any potatoes today. That's preposterous! Let us focus on whether it is important, namely the concrete measures that are necessary to strengthen Sweden's ability to prevent, intervene and prosecute those who engage in terrorism.
i-2345705daf91367b-218	Mr President, I would like to To begin with, I turn to Anders Ygeman. Conscious misunderstandings are rarely a fruitful starting point for a fruitful discussion. I'll have to ask Anders Ygeman to adjust his questions if he wants better answers. The threat from right-wing and left-wing groups is likely to escalate the closer we get to the election. For this reason too, Sweden needs more police and more resources both for the Swedish Police Authority and for the Swedish Security Service. We have worked for this throughout the term of office, and we welcome developments in which other parties are now following. We want to see increased possibilities for criminalisation of acts related to terrorism. Among other things, it is a question of banning the spread of terrorist propaganda, which has proved to be one of the most important tools for the recruitment of the Islamic State. At the same time, we welcome the fact that more parties agree with the proposal to criminalise participation in terrorist organisations. We want to tighten up the law on special foreign control to ensure that condemned terrorists are not able to move freely in our country when there are enforcement barriers. We want to expand the use of camera surveillance in places where there are a lot of people in motion. We also want to criminalise all terrorist trips, unlike the rest of you, by including terrorist trips to a country of citizenship. Of course, we want to tighten the penalties for terrorist crimes. We want those who manage to return from terrorist travel to be automatically detained in order to be investigated against existing legislation. We want those who have chosen to war for the Islamic State not to be welcome back as Swedish citizens, but we are not in principle opposed to them being detained, sentenced and serving sentences in Sweden before being expelled for life from Sweden. Mr President, I would like to There's a lot of things we want. We hope, of course, that the government and, for that matter, the bourgeois opposition can take on something of what we want. Finally, I would like to declare that the support of the Swedish Democrats will be available for all the proposals that lead in our direction. We are available to the Government, if you have questions or views on our proposals, to develop broader support in the Swedish Parliament for the legislative proposals presented. I would also like to thank all the participants in the debate for a decently constructive debate.
i-2345705daf91367b-226	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that today's debate on these important issues has mainly been very constructive. The aim of the terrorists is not only to kill individuals but also to fundamentally destroy our open democratic society. Therefore, there is basically no contradiction between, on the one hand, the fight against terrorism and, on the other hand, the work of democracy. It has not been said, therefore, that in many cases there are not difficult and important balances in individual proposals. In the forthcoming work, the Green Party will vote for concrete and effective proposals that meet the requirements of the rule of law, international conventions and human rights, including the protection of privacy. Only in this way can we combat terrorism responsibly and with the full force of democracy, without exploiting fears and spreading suspicion between people and different groups. In this way, we fundamentally differ from the Swedish Democrats, who, in addition to having invited to a debate in which they refuse to answer questions and attacks, have once again expressed a willingness to grant impunity to terrorists rather than working effectively to protect democracy against those who want hatred.
i-2345705daf91367b-230	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, all the co-debaters in this important debate! The ongoing talks between the government and the alliance parties to develop the common strategy have been raised. It is a continuation of it that we did in December 2015. The talks started on Monday. They are characterized by a good climate for conversation and a constructive spirit. It is important not to stare blindly at one of the motifs that anyone planning a terrorist attack on Sweden may have. The security police as well as the national coordinator are working with three main forms of violence: Islamism, right-wing extremism and left-wing extremism. Several have also mentioned the legal proceedings that are taking place against three Nazis in Gothenburg. In the talks, the Center Party has brought with it some ideas that the Center Party wants to assert. This applies, as I mentioned in my previous speech, to the criminalisation of associations. In the same spirit, we also want to look at a further criminalisation of the support of terrorism. Another point we want to make is that no public funds should be able to spread violent and anti-democratic messages. Authorities must be given greater opportunities to share information that is important to prevent terrorist offences. The role of the national coordinator must be broadened and deepened. We see before us a national resource team to deal with, above all, returnees, but also others who are at risk of radicalisation. We are also looking at whether a national police reserve could not be returned to this. These talks include parties that have all shown that they have been mature enough to take responsibility for Sweden, to put party political prestige aside and to work together for what is common good. These are parties that do not try to take easy points in exploiting fear, and they are parties that through history have been prepared to take responsibility for Sweden. Not all parties are ripe for it.
i-2345705daf91367b-235	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party wants to combat and combat terrorism with effective, legally secure and balanced methods. We need to know why people turn to violent extremism, how recruitment is done and how we, as an open and democratic society, can counter authoritarian, fascist and violent forces. To then paint Islam and Muslims as the greatest threat is to meet both right-wing and jihadists. That's branding some people and turning them into criminals. Experts called for calm and thoughtfulness three weeks ago. We know that terrorist attacks are committed by people from all violent environments. When we fight terrorist crimes, we must keep our heads cool and our hearts warm. Thank you for today's debate.
i-2345705daf91367b-238	Mr President, I would like to We are accused by the Swedish Democrats that we have not pursued, for example, the criminalisation of combat abroad and associations and so on. But please read our exercises from autumn 2014! We have repeatedly pursued these issues, irrespective of the tragic terrorist attacks. The Swedish Democrats will hopefully know this. Then there is the focus of the Liberals in this debate. I hope it will be on local crime prevention against violent extremism and radicalisation. We have highlighted this in our budget motion in Parliament. We also address the importance of getting more district police to strengthen the police in external service near these areas, so that we can quickly identify people at risk and handle this together with school and social services. That is why, for a year and a half, we have also been actively pushing the issue of the security police's rules on confidentiality and public access to information on extremists and returnees to school and social services. It is a crucial point when it comes to meeting the threat and those who actually call for it and recruit and fund terrorists who commit terrorist attacks in Sweden and not least abroad. The Swedish Democrats have asked for this debate. You can sometimes think about what they want to achieve by asking for such a debate. We politicians and national politicians have an extra responsibility for what we say and how we say it. I do not believe that the Swedish Democrats will achieve the goal of less extremism and less radicalisation if they continue to act aggressively, exaggerate and bring in a particular target group or religion. I think it will be exactly the opposite, and we will not be contributing to that on the part of the Liberals.
i-2345705daf91367b-241	Mr President, I would like to I have highlighted in this debate that we need to increase our capacity to combat terrorism and that we need to combat the roots of terrorism. I think we can draw lessons from the attack we are debating today. Perhaps we can do so again for a little while – the police carry out their own evaluation. I think we can learn from attacks we have seen in other countries. We already have proposals on the table of Parliament, so we can do this. I also welcome the constructive tone that exists in this debate but also in the ongoing talks. There, the Christian Democrats want to be a constructive party in that we agree on more measures, stronger measures, to increase our anti-terrorism capacity but also to combat the roots of terrorism. We need to stand united in the fight against terrorism; I think this debate has demonstrated this. A lot of different proposals have been highlighted. I would just like to mention two further proposals that we Christian Democrats have. We want to increase the number of detention places, and we want the anklet to be an alternative to detention or notification requirements for persons who are deemed to be a security risk. We also want to strengthen internal foreigner control, and we want Säpo to have the possibility of signal reconnaissance even during preliminary investigation. These are proposals that several other parties have also highlighted during the debate. Together with the proposals we have already put forward to give the police the right tools and resources and on how we can take the fight to combat the roots of terror, this is something that we would like to contribute to the cross-block talks that are now taking place. I would like to thank the Minister for Home Affairs and all the other debaters for their participation in today's debate and the Swedish Democrats, who initiated it.
i-2345705daf91367b-248	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have successfully exploited martyrdom in Swedish politics and said: No one wants to debate with us! Now we know that there is one thing that the Swedish Democrats fear more than that no one wants to debate with them, namely to debate their own policies. I have quoted from the Swedish Democrats' parliamentary motion, signed by the party secretary. Although Adam Marttinen has had more speaking time than everyone else in this debate, he has not been able to answer a single question about the policy of the Swedish Democrats themselves. When I quote the legal spokesperson, who is quite clear when he says that in the case of expulsion, zero and no account should be taken of whether they risk torture or the death penalty, Adam Marttinen cannot even make it clear whether this is the position of the Swedish Democrats or not. Nevertheless, it is a basic requirement of a party elected to the Swedish parliament that you can defend your own position or, if you cannot defend it, at least clarify what your own position is. It is a basic requirement for the democratic dialogue. Otherwise, I think this has been a good debate. I think that all parties who have participated constructively have put forward proposals that I believe can build Sweden safer and safer. I would like once again to thank the parties that have participated, because when society is faced with these kinds of trials and challenges, I think it is a strength that we can face it with firmness and unity and that we can continue to build and make Sweden a safer and better country. Thank you for that, and thank you for this debate.
i-2345705daf91367b-256	Mr President, I would like to Johanna Jönsson has asked me what I and the government will do to ensure that children who are wrongly registered in age without a medical age assessment are not expelled to a disorderly reception. Initially, I would like to remind you that in the asylum process it is the applicant who has the burden of proof and that only the applicant is required to make his or her identity, including age, likely. It is a lower requirement of proof than in other migration cases. The right of asylum also applies to a specific rule of proof: the principle of the advantage of the case, the benefit of the double. Many asylum seekers can make their identity including age likely without medical age assessment, for example through passports and other identity documents or other evidence. However, it is important for confidence in the asylum process that there is also, if necessary, an opportunity to offer the applicant an opportunity to undergo a medical age assessment. Such a decision shall be admissible only if the applicant has not been able to make his or her age likely by other means, and it may be carried out only if the applicant has given his or her written consent. However, the system of medical age assessments effectively ceased to work during the previous government period. For the current government, it has been urgent to find a system for implementing those with broad support. The Government therefore commissioned the National Board of Forensic Medicine to develop such a system in cooperation with the Finnish Immigration Service. This is now in place since 13 March this year. So far, the Finnish Immigration Service has ordered medical age assessments from the National Board of Forensic Medicine in more than 2,200 cases. Asylum seekers who have had their age corrected in connection with a refusal decision may appeal the decision rejecting the asylum application to the Migration Court. In such an appeal, the question of age is also subject to review by the Court of Justice. It is up to the court to assess whether the Migration Agency has had a sufficient basis for a decision to examine the question of age. The Court may also decide on the measures to be taken, for example, if the applicant is to be offered a medical assessment of age. To conclude, I would like to stress that the EU Return Directive and the Aliens Act require an orderly reception when returning to unaccompanied minors and that there is no room for Swedish authorities to deviate from this requirement. It is up to the Police Authority, the Migration Agency and the Migration Courts to assess at the enforcement stage whether there are obstacles to the execution of an expulsion decision. In the context of that enforcement review, inhibition may be determined if there are reasons to do so.
i-2345705daf91367b-262	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer to this very important interpellation! This is an area that I would say is urgent. The situation of many young people, but also of people working with these young people, is getting worse every day right now, and more and more people are getting into an untenable situation. This applies to people who have received their rejection decisions, often because of age being listed, but also to people who are waiting and worried about what will happen once they get their decisions. We have seen some disturbing and terrible consequences of this. For example, in recent times four unaccompanied youths have killed themselves. They don't exist anymore. There are also considerably more people who resort to other types of self-harm. We know that HVB home staff take extra rounds in the rooms at night to see that young people are still alive. I get a lot of calls and emails myself from staff who describe these situations, how they go in and think about this every morning. So it's an emergency, and it's serious. Since last spring, the Migration Agency has written up the age of a great many people – they usually talk about approximately 6,000 who have been registered recently. The Finnish Immigration Service itself chose to stop making decisions in cases where age was unclear while waiting for the Swedish National Board of Forensic Medicine to get started with its more legally certain method of medical age assessment. For me, it is only entirely logical and reasonable that the young people who remain in the country, whether or not they have received their last expulsion decision from the last instance, should also be given the opportunity to make these assessments. We have a new tool in place and, of course, we want to ensure in every way that we do not expel minors to a disorderly reception. I'm glad it looks like the government shares my picture. What is problematic now and what my question is about are those who have been given the last decision. It is, in fact, an obstacle to enforcement, i.e. that the Swedish Immigration Service must be notified of the fact that it has an obstacle to enforcement. There, the Migration Agency has replied, and it also says on the work's website, that you will not ask the Swedish National Board of Forensic Medicine for a medical assessment. This means that the applicant himself must have one if he wants to. It will then be a situation where it is difficult to access the more legally secure methods. There are not many in Sweden who are prepared to make medical age assessments outside the system. Often it is only possible to do a dental scan, and we know that it is not enough. It's going to be legal insecure even there. That is why we believe that these young people too should have access to the new, more legally secure system at the National Board of Forensic Medicine. For that to happen, the Migration Agency must ask for it. That is what we are asking for. There is much more to be discussed, but at the moment the issue specifically concerns those who have already received final decisions, those who are already at a stage where they are to be expelled and who invoke enforcement barriers. There I wish the Minister could show a more positive attitude towards trying to find a way to help the young people.
i-2345705daf91367b-272	Mr President, I would like to This is a gravely mismanaged area of the former government. When I look at how the question was handled, I can almost just cry about everything. In 2012, the National Board of Health and Welfare presented new guidelines. In practice, children's doctors were given a right of veto. You already knew at the time – you were the ones who ruled Sweden at the time – that there was a great deal of distrust of the methods, and thus it would be more difficult and more difficult to get the assessments done. Indeed, the result was that it became more difficult and difficult to carry out any medical age assessments at all. What did the bourgeois government do? In one word, nothing. In 2012, the guidelines came. You didn't do anything. In 2013, nothing was done. In 2014, nothing was done. Instead, it was up to the new government to try to create a system in which there was confidence among all parties. That's exactly the responsibility we took. We gave the Forensics Office the assignment. There is now a system in place that enjoys the confidence of all parties. These medical age assessments are now carried out in a very professional way. So far this year there are 2 200 cases. For those who have already received their decisions, and where the decisions have been appealed because the age assessment is called into question, the court may request from the Migration Board that kind of medical age assessment. This has so far been the case in some 20 cases. If the then government had done things, the situation would have been better when 35 000 unaccompanied young people arrived in 2015. This is what happens when the government is unable to deal with the difficult issues and hand it over to someone else. Then it'll be difficult situations. I put the questions to Johanna Jönsson: Why did the Center Party not act during your government period to bring about functioning medical age assessments? Why did you choose to look another way? Age assessment is a new means of proof, but at the same time I would like to emphasise that it is actually the individual who is seeking to make his or her age likely. That's how the burden of proof actually lies. This is just another means of proof. If you fail to prove your age, there is now this possibility. But there are other ways that many who manage to make their age likely use, such as some kind of action. Age assessments are important in relation to the assessment process in asylum matters, but these are also purely child safety issues. That is why the government, as Johanna Jönsson knows, has now made proposals to make these age assessments as early as possible. Instead of waiting until the examination itself takes place after a year or so, we say that the age assessments should be made as soon as possible from the time the applicant has arrived in Sweden. Among other things, it is a question of creating a system in which these young people can be given safe housing. We don't want to mix adults and children in the same accommodation. It has also been a major flaw. Let me still ask Johanna Jönsson: If you think this question is so urgent, why did you not push the question during your reign?
i-2345705daf91367b-281	Mr President, I would like to I almost lose the ability to say something. The Minister therefore chooses to use most of the speaking time to talk about the important urgent issue, which affects thousands of young people, possibly children, to blame the previous government. So much is taken seriously. I don't know what to say! I will not spend the majority of my time discussing what happened a few years ago. This is the current situation. The Minister knows as well as I do that the methods have evolved since then. There are more legally certain methods now. He is also familiar with the attitude of the country and, in principle, of all politicians. It is not that the Social Democrats were so tremendously driven to bring about medical age assessments earlier either. To devote speaking time to dwelling on whose fault it is that it has become this way, when there is now the opportunity to do something about it, no matter who is in charge of the area right now, is not to take responsibility in an emergency situation. There are things that can be done. The Minister again referred to the fact that the courts can make a request. I'm not talking about that group. A minister in charge of justice should understand the difference. It is not the courts that decide enforcement barriers, but it is primarily to the Migration Board that they are submitted. The Finnish Immigration Service has said that such medical assessments will not be requested from the National Board of Forensics. In that case, the applicant may attempt to obtain a medical assessment of his/her age. I tried to explain in my previous speech that it is extremely difficult to get this assessment done with the new, more legal-proof methods. Much else needs to be done for this group. Even there, the current government is doing too little. There needs to be a rapid order in which young people on their 18th birthday, or if their age is up to 18 years, are not moved from the municipality. We have suggested that if a person is deemed to be or is under 21 years old, they should be allowed to remain in the municipality, and the expenses should therefore be borne by the state. Many municipalities ask for this opportunity because they see that young people often stay, become homeless, end up in a shadow society and go extremely badly. We have also said that the age of the young person at the time of the application should apply. The processing times currently lead to children being 18 years old during the process, regardless of whether they are listed in age or not. There is much more that can be done. Right now, all this is about the Migration Agency itself saying that the decisions are not legally secure. The work has carried out an investigation that shows that in 60 percent of cases the basis for the decision has not been sufficient or the age has not been sufficiently investigated. It's about 60% of the cases! Several of them have already received final decisions. They're just up for enforcement. That's who I'm talking about. Why does the Minister not want to give them the opportunity to obtain additional means of proof so that they can show whether they are minors? Is it because the previous government did not do enough? Is it because the Center Party didn't push enough six years ago? That's completely unreasonable.
i-2345705daf91367b-289	Mr President, I would like to The problem was not that you did not push, but the problem was that you did nothing. You let the system fail without doing anything. It was nothing 2012, 2013 or 2014. This has brought major consequences. One such consequence is that when unaccompanied youths come here, it is difficult to determine their age. The second problem was that in 2015 35 000 people did not know how to place them. In some cases, therefore, adults were placed with youths. This is an example of a government failing to solve a task and putting things in front of it. You often end up in situations like this. My question to Johanna Jönsson was why you did nothing when you had the opportunity to do something to clear up the situation. I didn't get an answer to that question. 35 000 came in 2015. More than half of them have been told whether they can stay or not. We still have about 17,000 left. The vast majority of them will be informed within the next six months. We have a high rate of decision-making now. 112 000 decisions were taken last year and 95 000 decisions have been taken so far this year. This is a consequence of the fact that we have allocated so much resources to the Migration Agency. Of the unaccompanied young people who have received their decisions and are under 18 years of age, the rate of granting is high. I think the latest figure is 84%. Johanna Jönsson says that the rule of law is in question. The Finnish Immigration Service has made an assessment of the decision-making process. It has been concluded that you can improve in some respects. However, to say that there is no legal certainty in this area is to draw too far-reaching conclusions. On the contrary, once the questions come to the Migration Courts and the Migration Court of Appeal, the rate of change has not increased. Here a new test is made to see if the information that the Migration Agency gave was correct or not. The fact that the rate of change has not increased is an argument that we have a legally secure process. As I said, it is the individual who will demonstrate that age is likely. That's what the rules look like. If you fail to do so, you run the risk of being considered an adult. There is no other way for us to deal with this. We cannot have a system where we automatically trust the one who comes and say that he or she is 16 years old when he or she actually shows all signs of being 20, 25 or 30 years old. There has to be a trial. What we have done, as the bourgeois government did not, is that we have created a system of medical age assessment that is one of the most legally secure in the world. It has the most modern methods at its disposal. Johanna Jönsson rightly pointed out that the Migration Agency said in February that it was waiting for a decision until it could assimilate the new means of proof. That's what you get to do when you get a new means of proof. I also pointed out the possibility that the courts could obtain further evidence during an appeal process. This has already happened in some 20 cases. Moving on in this is not a matter for me.
i-2345705daf91367b-303	Mr President, I would like to The Minister continues to devote some of his speaking time to discussing what has been done and has not been done before. I repeat that I think it is quite irrelevant because it is about what we can do right now. I also tried to clarify why this is important, urgent and needs to be addressed now by the current government. Right now, we're not in government. If we are going to keep discussing what happened before and why it was not done before, let me say again: you were not driving either. The question wasn't as urgent. Not as many people came, so the question wasn't as important. There should definitely have been more to push this forward, but it was difficult. The Migration Board tried to solve it in several ways, and the government did not say: Don't solve this! The Migration Board tried but found it difficult to find a method for it. The Migration Board has also said that there was not enough political pressure. That is true; we should have done more. But let us not devote all our time to this. The Minister is still not answering my question. He continues to bring up the courts and that the system is now in place. But I am talking about those who are in the next stage. I am talking about those who have already received their last rejection in the court. That's who this is about, so please answer the question. Why does the Minister not want them to have access to this better and wonderful legal system that the Minister is talking about? Minors must bear the burden of proof. Yes, they have the burden of proof. But the Minister is of course aware of how difficult it is to prove your age if you come from Afghanistan and have a tazkira that is rejected by the Migration Board, if you have been on the run and have not brought your actions with you or if you did not have any documents from the beginning because you were born in Iran, for example. Please answer the last - stage question: Why not?
i-2345705daf91367b-309	Mr President, I would like to The possibility of inhibition is also in the final stage. You can make an official decision. As regards appeals, it is the Court of Justice that can collect these opinions. Now we have a working system in place. 2 200 cases have been dealt with so far and almost 3 000 assessments per month will soon be possible. The capacity is thus expanded. However Johanna Jönsson twists and turns it around, the basic problem is that you left a question without solving it. I do not believe that the bourgeois government decided that the issue should not be resolved, but that it was the inaction that was concerned. This made the problem bigger in the situation we ended up in 2015. The problem also existed in 2012, 2013 and 2014; it did not just occur. There were concerns about where the children would be placed and how to be sure of ages. Here, the old government didn't do anything. The conclusion is probably that we have solved the problem that you failed to solve. It also includes those who are in the middle of an appeal process. When they question the decision in the appeal, they will be given the opportunity to request this information. As far as enforcement barriers are concerned, there is the possibility of inhibition, but I cannot decide on that in individual cases as a minister.
i-2345705daf91367b-314	Mr President, I would like to Johanna Jönsson has asked me whether I and the government still intend to promote labour migration or whether it might be appropriate to introduce some form of government review of the shortage professions. There is no work to reintroduce labour market trials in the Government Office. The discussion referred to by Johanna Jönsson has been conducted before the Social Democratic Party Congress. In a number of ways, however, it is clear that the present regulations, which came into existence under the bourgeois government, have proved to be very flawed and must be changed. The Government has therefore taken a number of measures in terms of both more effective controls and shorter processing times. The Government decided on 2 July 2015 to set up the investigation Measures to strengthen the position of labour immigrants in the labour market. Just before Christmas, I received the report of the investigation. The Government is now moving forward with the investigation's proposal on the possibility of failing to withdraw a work permit when the employer has made corrections on his own initiative. The Government also goes on to investigate an opportunity to correct minor, non-intentional mistakes after the Migration Board has pointed out shortcomings in the conditions during the permit periods. The investigation also presented, among other things, proposals on criminal liability for employers who intentionally failed to meet the conditions on which a work permit was based. These questions are now being further addressed within the Government Office. In this year's regulation letter, the Government has also commissioned the Finnish Immigration Service to develop an action plan for how the handling of both new and extension cases within work permits can be significantly shortened. In addition, the Finnish Immigration Service has been tasked with developing a strategy for more effective accessibility and service to applicants and stakeholders, such as companies. All in all, these measures aim to strengthen the supply of skills for Swedish companies and for Sweden as a knowledge nation. Sweden needs a labour immigration system that meets the needs of recruiting skills abroad. Sweden should also be an attractive country for innovative and knowledge-intensive companies. A well-functioning regulatory framework is one of many instruments that can contribute to a positive development in this respect.
i-2345705daf91367b-323	Mr President, I would like to The reason I put the interpellation was certain statements by Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg. On the other hand, it was a DN Debate article, in which he expressed the desire for a needs test and that it should be more difficult for people who are not considered to be part of the shortage professions or who are unqualified to come to Sweden, and on the other hand it was some statements after the debate article that I considered to be very startling. He said, among other things, that it is about the free immigration of fast-food workers from the Middle East and cleaning staff from Mongolia and that it is something that the Social Democrats do not want to see. When Mikael Damberg speaks, it is a little difficult to know whether it is the line of the Social Democrats, whether it is Mikael Damberg as a private person who knows these things or whether it is Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg who speaks on behalf of the government. It'll be hard for everyone to know. This will also be difficult to know for those companies that are considering recruiting and that are completely dependent on this type of competence in order to survive, develop and contribute to Sweden's growth. I have heard this on many company visits that I have been on and in conversations, emails and so on; one is deeply concerned. I was at Almega's last week. Among other things, it discussed how to protect the system that we have in place, where people are welcomed to Sweden if they work, support themselves and contribute to Sweden's growth and where you can see that it is the companies that can best decide what kind of competence they need, regardless of the level of education or whether the Swedish Public Employment Service has decided that it is a shortage profession or not. I have to say that I am relieved by the reply I have received from the Minister on this issue, that it will continue to protect labour immigration as it stands and that the government is not currently preparing a proposal for a means test. It's important. But there is much more to be done, and I wish the government were more proactive. It is one thing to sit and talk about and prepare things, but we do have an emergency situation where people are expelled every week, because of small mistakes and shortcomings that you do not have the opportunity to correct when they appear. We also have situations where you have done everything you could when you first hired. You have called the Migration Agency and asked what insurances are needed and how to make sure it is right. You've got all right in a first round, and then staff still get an expulsion decision after four years. It is completely unreasonable and extremely urgent. This is not just the case for highly qualified staff, as it sometimes sounds. You talk a lot about Spotify, for example. Yes, they have a very difficult situation, but so does Kevin, who runs the Rosegarden restaurant chain. He's having a very difficult time with his chefs. Some are highly qualified and have extensive experience and training, but he has also recruited people who are simply willing to work as a chef. He has brought them here from other countries because he has not been able to find people here in Sweden who want to work, even though he places very low demands on formal competence. According to him and many others, it is extremely difficult to get people who are willing to work in this type of profession. However, since I am relatively satisfied with the Minister's answer to my first question, I would like to hear when we will see proposals that make the system even better.
i-2345705daf91367b-331	Mr President, I would like to It is nice to hear that Johanna Jönsson is relatively satisfied with the answer. I'm not sure she'll be happy with what I'm saying in the future. It is just as well to be honest and clear in such a discussion. All coalition governments – you know that too, Johanna Jönsson – are based on the fact that you can compromise from different starting points and agree with other parties. The Center also has extensive experience of this. I can imagine, for example, that you were not so fond of the pensioner tax – that pensioners would pay higher taxes than employees – but you had to swallow it because the Moderates were pushing this very hard and wanted their job tax deductions. Then you had to swallow that pensioners would pay higher taxes than employees. This is part of the discussion within each government that is a coalition government. It's the same here. What Johanna Jönsson points out is the guidelines for the party congress that we have just had. They are laid down as social democratic guidelines, and that is what we will be going to elections on. The starting point of the Social Democratic position is that we are experiencing strong developments in the labour market right now. Unemployment falls, long-term unemployment falls, youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years and we have 100,000 job vacancies. We're working out our job. We have a very strong development. However, we see that there are many more people who would need jobs. We still have over 300 000 unemployed, many of whom do not have higher education. The question we ask, as Mikael Damberg put in the article and also asked at the Social Democratic Party Congress, is: Why should we have a system where employers have the obvious right to recruit cleaners from Bangladesh, when we have thousands of people who are in Sweden today – not least many new arrivals – and who could take these jobs instead? Why should there be a natural right to recruit restaurant assistants from across the world when there are thousands of people in Sweden who can take these jobs? That is exactly the line we have taken on the Social Democratic Party Congress. This is the Social Democratic view, and that is what we are going to go to elections on. However, as I said in the interpellation response, there is no ongoing work in the Government Office to reintroduce labour market testing. In the meantime, while we are waiting for the voters to decide which line they think is wiser at this point, it is important to try to make sure that the system we have today for labour immigration works better. Then we focus on correcting some of the problems. As you pointed out, Johanna Jönsson, your system contained at least two huge concerns. One is that if the employer makes a mistake, it is the employee who takes the full blow and risks being expelled. I would call this pure class politics – employees are taking the whole blow while employers are not at all at risk. The second problem is that even if the employer discovers that he has done wrong, he finds himself in a purely Kafka-like situation where he cannot correct the error afterwards. We will shortly – it is only a few weeks away – come up with proposals to correct this part, that is, the possibility of self-justification. There we will go to Parliament as soon as possible. With regard to sanctions against employers who have made mistakes, we come back with proposals.
i-2345705daf91367b-341	Mr President, I would like to And then I got confused again. Just as Mikael Damberg was out waving around on these issues as well as both Minister of Economic Affairs and Private Person and Social Democrats and made it very unclear what is really the government's line, the Minister for Migration now chooses to spend a large part of his time talking about what the Social Democrats want instead of explaining what the government wants. That's why the immigration minister was called here. The interpellation is directed to the government. The government consists of both the Green Party and the Social Democrats, and there it is your compromise that applies. To then choose to argue for a different line than the government is of course interesting and a choice, but that is not really what I asked for and that I want to know. What I want to know is what the government will do on these issues. There is an enormous amount of work to be done. To answer about the Social Democrats' line, although I do not think it is as relevant as the government thinks, most companies still want to find staff in Sweden. It is cheaper and simpler, and you do not have to wait for long processing times. I have been with cleaning companies on Gotland who have described in detail how they have received people from Arbetsförmedlingen over and over again but that it has not worked. Instead, it has gone on to try to recruit asylum accommodations and there found some people who can work, but one still wonders if you need to resort to labour immigration to manage it. It is not about the need for people with skills, if you do not think it is a competence to get up early in the morning, show up at work and actually do what is necessary. The same goes for Kevin at the Rose Guard. He's tried and tried. Then the question is: What are the obstacles there? If so, the government needs to correct this, so that you can recruit the skills and people already in Sweden in a better and more sensible way. However, this is an issue that is a little side by side with what we are discussing here now. When it comes to the employee taking the whole blow, I agree that the system was rigged wrong there. We from the Center Party have therefore proposed, among other things, that this change be made. We want to be able to change jobs and employers right from the start if there are abuses, instead of being expelled. We also want the employer who exploits workers or who makes a mistake that leads to problems in this area to suffer a sanction fee, a penalty simply. But this should not affect the worker as it is today. That is what we see, that is, that these small things lead to the expulsion of people. There are so many who are now covered. I am contacted almost daily by people who describe either that they have already received decisions or that they know that there are certain things in their cases that will lead to a rejection decision sooner or later. These are things that need to be corrected. The Social Democrats, and also the Green Party, supported the committee initiative and the announcement addressed to the government by the Parliament in December, which said that this must be corrected. People should not be expelled because of small mistakes, especially when you have actually tried to do everything right. We know that it can be about as little as 35 SEK for little in salary a single month. This could be about pension contributions that started a month too late. It can also be about errors from the Finnish Immigration Service or the Swedish Tax Agency.
i-2345705daf91367b-350	Mr President, I would like to This, that is to say, correcting the problems of current legislation, was nothing that started with an announcement. It started with me setting up an investigation into labour immigration. It was one of the first decisions that I made as a fresh start. I asked the investigation to look at these very issues, that is, how it may be that it is the employee who is taking the full blow despite the fact that it is the employer who has done the wrong thing. I maintain what I said in my previous speech. I regard it as a pure class policy. It is no coincidence that a bourgeois government is pushing through such a system, that is, the workers are taking the whole blow. That's because at all times you only really see the interest of employers. You never see the interests of employees. It's a white spot that you have in almost every argument. We now have legislation in which it is the employees who are taking the whole blow. We'll make that right. The second question was about the possibility of correcting errors – this Kafka-like situation that a number of companies are experiencing. Then we have said that we should do two things. One is that this spring we will present a legislative proposal. This means that when the employer himself has discovered a minor defect that is not intentional as he or she has done, there is an opportunity to heal it, as it were, afterwards. That is exactly what Spotify has asked for. They ended up in exactly this situation. They hadn't done everything right from the beginning but discovered it afterwards and tried to solve it. But it was not possible because of these bureaucratic rules. We shall now resolve that question. The second thing we need to do is to move on one more step and say that even minor and non-intelligent errors that the Migration Board then discovers should be possible to heal, so to speak. That is the next review that we are going to do. Here we have to be a little careful. We do not want to invite you to eye service, that is to say that you misbehave and hope that no one will discover it and that it will then be possible to heal it afterwards. We have to be a little careful when we draw this line. But we are prepared to take another step there too. On the first part of the question, Johanna Jönsson also asked me about social democratic politics and what our line was. That is what I was trying to answer, in addition to answering what is going on in the Government Office. Just admit that the two of us have different opinions. I think it is reasonable to ask the question why it should be obvious that we should be able to recruit cleaners from Bangladesh when we have tens of thousands of people who are going to enter the Swedish labour market and who will need to ask for that particular type of job. It is people who cannot take jobs where high qualifications are required. If we are to be able to do this in the longer term, that question must be asked. That is exactly what we are doing in the Social Democratic guidelines, and that is what we as a party will be going to elections on. There we simply differ, and we have different views.
i-2345705daf91367b-358	Mr President, I would like to The investigation referred to by the Minister is very much about abuse of the system and to a very small extent about how to improve the system. Those in the investigation have pointed out that this has come late in the discussions, when it was seen that there were various cases in the media, among other things. Even organizations working on these issues have seen this, and they realized that something was wrong. The sad thing about this is that the committee initiative taken by the Alliance, which was actually supported by all parties in the Parliament, and which led to an announcement to the government, has not been followed, so that this investigation would have additional directives to produce good and supported proposals in this area. In the investigation, however, were people who were already familiar and had already looked at the system. Now it seems that the government itself is meeking a little bit about this. Among other things, you should go on and look a little at what is about the Migration Agency having found out that something is wrong. We knew this a year ago. There's been quite a lot of time to look at it. The best way to do that would have been to let the investigation actually look at it. Then you would have had these proposals on the table now and would have been able to present them, so that hopefully they would have entered into force before the summer so that no more people would be affected by this. We in the Center Party have also proposed a halting law that would mean that people are not expelled, so for example Kevin or Spotify do not get rid of the staff they are in so much need of keeping while these issues are being corrected. We also know that the first proposal is not enough if you find these errors yourself. I very much hope that the proposals that the Migration Agency will discover things that can be corrected will also be extended with an opportunity to get a person to stay if this person has changed employers or missed something that is difficult to correct, such as that he or she has worked too much during the summer. There are many issues to discuss, and we are open to continuing to discuss them.
i-2345705daf91367b-365	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the latter part, how we are going to reform the labour immigration system in this part, we are probably in agreement. We are almost in a discussion as to whether we should have given additional directives to the study that was in practice completed. I received it on 15 December, and I believe that the announcement came just a few weeks earlier. I do not think that it is the world's biggest conflict to argue about whether we should give additional directives to a current investigation that was actually completed or whether we should review it again. The question is basically about the direction in which we should go. There, as I said, I think we are in agreement. This review also looks at cases where people have changed employers, which is also a problem. As far as the second balance is concerned, we should always remember that we must not create a system that invites us to eye service, as I said, i.e. that you abuse the system in the hope that no one will come up with the one who does. However, there must be safeguards to ensure that this is a minor non-intentional error. My basic attitude is that if you bring a person here from across the world, then you as an employer have to think a little bit and make sure you have order. For example, it must be ensured that collective agreements are in place, that the right insurance is paid and that the right wage is paid. You take on a great responsibility as an employer when you bring a person from the other side of the world. In fact, you have to be able to live up to that. It must also be possible to make demands on the workers that they actually know what they are doing. Again: If it is about non-intelligent errors of a minor nature, then in some situations one can let odd be even. It is this space that we shall then create. On this fundamental issue, I think we are in agreement.
