i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-0	Mr President, I would like to A lovely evening out in a vibrant London, a regular Monday on the subway in St. Petersburg, a long-awaited concert night in Manchester or a promising afternoon in our own Stockholm – suddenly terrorism changes everything. It spreads death, anxiety, and insecurity right into our lives. The fight against terrorism is a struggle for our freedom and our way of life. That's the fight we're going to take. That's the fight we're going to win. In Sweden, we have taken harder action against terrorism. We are tackling the funding of terrorism, we have strengthened the response capacity during terrorist attacks, we have increased the resources of Säpo, we have suppressed the misuse of Swedish passports and we have banned terrorist travel and the reception of terrorist training. Let's move on. We have just agreed on a wide range of measures to prevent, prevent and punish terrorism. One of several important measures is to launch national response teams against violent extremeism. We will tighten the net around the terrorists, and we will do so together: the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats. This is Sweden and Swedish politics at its best.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-3	The examples of constructive cross-block agreements have increased in recent years. It is good for Sweden that we now have broad agreements on energy, defence, the fiscal framework and refugee policy. There is also broad consensus on issues such as the fight against climate change and a tougher fight against crime. With more cops, tough moves and preventive measures, we will crack the crime that destroys so many. This is particularly true in a number of particularly vulnerable areas, where we need to do even more. Police resources, prevention and investment in schools and education will continue to be directed towards these areas in order to address both the crimes and the causes of the crimes. Police work makes a difference. Recent efforts in Bishopsgården have resulted in many leading criminals being removed from the street, increasing security. The road is very long before we have broken crime, but with more resources and clear priorities it is possible to achieve goals along the way. Now we're going to continue our efforts on the police. The employees of the police will be more, many more. The Social Democrats want 10,000 more police employees by 2025. In order to facilitate the fight against both crime and terrorism, I can tell you today that the government will go further and investigate how it can be easier for the police to arrange camera surveillance and thus increase security. Mr President, I would like to It's almost three years since the government's entry. We inherited a budget deficit of about 70 billion dollars, an unemployment rate of 8 percent and a well-being where the breaks were obvious. We have taken Sweden in a new direction, away from a passive and inefficient labour market policy to an active fight against unemployment and away from large unfunded tax cuts to a common society built with welfare and security for all as a goal. Today, Sweden is in a new situation: 200 000 more people have a job to go to. Refugee policy, which became unsustainable when many countries did not accept their responsibilities, has been changed and works. We have turned large government deficits into surpluses. Sweden now has economic room for manoeuvre. The political battle ahead is about how to use this force. Are we going to invest smartly in jobs and welfare and what builds cohesion in a country, or are we going to think short-sightedly and lower taxes and cut back? In short, should we engage in the construction of society for all or the construction of wealth for a few? For me, the choice is simple. I want to invest in Sweden of the future, in faith in the future and hope in a society where everyone can long for tomorrow. We need to invest in education so that the unemployed and newcomers can take the more than 100 000 jobs available. The task of establishing the new arrivals in the labour market is not simple, but if we do it properly with a focus on equipping these people for our labour market rather than equipping the Swedish model, it means great opportunities for our country. We need to invest in housing, education, research, climate action, innovation, roads and railways. This creates jobs here and now, and it creates growth and development over the years to come.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-12	We need to invest in more staff in welfare, because we are going to improve quality. The already historically large investment in 10 welfare billions is now being expanded with an additional 5 billion. What Sweden's employees have worked together will go to more preschool teachers and thus smaller children's groups, more nurses, shorter care queues, more police officers, more security and more sociologists and thus help for more vulnerable children. Mr President, I would like to Active governments in the future will be characterised by the courage to cooperate. But you cannot build a society that is safe and that holds together with a right-wing party. It is impossible, and that is why I will not – never – cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. I stand for that decency.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-14	Social democracy is in the middle of Swedish politics, ready to cooperate across the block line to take Sweden forward. Joint community building and cohesion, investment in jobs, security and welfare, cooperation in the middle of Swedish politics – this is the path of the Social Democrats and the Government.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-15	Mr President, I would like to Members and listeners! This morning bus drivers, nurses, engineers and many others went to work at Järvafältet and from Järvafältet here in Stockholm area, but with far too many people no alarm clock rang at all because they have no job to go to. Around Järvafältet you can see Sweden's most important and biggest problem. This is a problem which Stefan Löfven did not mention now and which the government either reduces, denies or worsens. That is why I and the Moderates devote our energies, not only in this debate but in the future, to three issues: integration, jobs and security. It is our most important task to halve the job gap, make sure that Sweden grows with half a million new jobs and secure law and order with more police officers and stricter penalties. This is absolutely crucial for Sweden to be, and may be, a country where the important thing is not where you come from, but where you are going.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-18	Mr President, I would like to For some time, Sweden has received more people from other countries than any other analogue country. Over a ten-year period, we will receive about half a million new arrivals. Half of those entering the establishment now lack upper secondary education. This places entirely new demands on politics. It places completely new demands on how we deal with immigration and integration in the coming years. And it determines whether Sweden will be a strong society for everyone. Last night it was my turn to visit the political week in Järva. There you're facing Tensta and Rinkeby. It is two of the many areas in Sweden that are unfortunately associated too much with exclusion, social problems and crime. The problems have been such for a long time and have deepened. There are a lot of people tired of being associated with problems all the time. It's very easy to understand. There you always meet committed people who work, toil and fight for themselves, their families, their friends and their area and who want to be proud of it. That's why they also get tired of when nothing is done about their problems, because they are for real. In Rinkeby, fewer than half of the adults go to work on a normal day. There are 130 such areas in Sweden, where dependency on subsidies is high, where exclusion is felt and where integration has failed. If you get stuck in exclusion, it is dangerous, both for the individual and for society. For every person who gives up, there is a greater risk of problems, crime and radicalisation. Every dollar that goes to grants is a crown that could have gone to things that give jobs, to more police officers, to more education in school and to more hands in health care. If we do not succeed in integration, Sweden does not stick together. That is why the job gap between native and foreign born must be removed.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-21	The job gap has to go. It's to be halved to 2025. In order to get there, it takes three things in particular. It takes grant ceilings, so that it always pays better to work. It takes more roads to the first job, with easier jobs, reduced taxes and less hassle. Integration obligations are required with clear demands for efforts. The work line must be developed, not decommissioned.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-22	Mr President, I would like to Anyone who takes job creation for granted threatens Sweden's future. Robots and computers create new opportunities, productivity and growth. But they also challenge our jobs as they look today. Competition from other countries is increasing. When old jobs disappear, new ones must be able to grow. It is tough for a small and open trade-dependent country in a world where more countries join inwards. Then Sweden needs more companies that grow and more entrepreneurs who hire, so that more people work and more people can get their first job. What is not needed in this situation is more tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship, more – rather few – extra services, trainee services or standby jobs instead of real jobs or a government that states that it sees benefits from Swedish companies moving abroad. Stefan Lövven's policy is not just a failure. It's anti-work. Sweden needs to do the opposite. It must always pay off to work. Training must always pay off. It must always pay off to make an effort. The work line must be developed, not decommissioned.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-25	Mr President, I would like to There are areas in Sweden that are in practice controlled by criminal gangs, where drugs are sold openly, where ambulances hesitate to go in without police escorts and where the police meet with stone stones. The need to read in the newspaper that there are more areas of crime makes it seem that the government would rather sweep this under the carpet. At the same time, one in three women is insecure in Sweden. This is happening now. Women hesitate to go out at night. Only one in eight assault cases is cleared up. At the same time, the police testify to an authority in crisis. We see that too many police officers leave the profession and that too few police officers are in the streets and squares. Last week there were reports that 152 uniformed police officers have left the street in Stockholm – it is only in Stockholm and only this year. The police are in crisis. Stefan Löfven announces goals. Last time he did that was a few minutes ago. But it is in the long term, long after he has ended as Prime Minister. Sweden is heading in the wrong direction. Now we have to reverse developments right, with more policemen getting better paid and stopping from the profession, with tougher penalties and with a continued and uncompromising fight against terrorism. If Sweden is to function, security must work and be there for everyone.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-27	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is amazing. At the same time, Sweden has major problems. They're the ones we're going to moderate. It's about integration. It's about job creation. It's about security. These problems must be resolved, especially when the Social Democrats and this government are unable to cope with them. Therefore Sweden needs the Moderates, and therefore Sweden needs a new alliance government.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-28	Mr President, I would like to You almost got a little tear in your eye when you listened to the Prime Minister's speech about how fantastic everything is and how good the government is. I remember when Stefan Löfven presented his spring budget a few months ago and, I do not know for what time in the order, pointed out how fantastic Sweden is doing. Unemployment is lower and employment is higher. Growth is increasing and so on. Anyone who in any way questions the government's image of how amazing it is for our country is accused of spreading false news, of blacking out Sweden and so on. Of course, Mr President, it can be said that Sweden is doing at least relatively well without going with untruth – that can be done. I see that the Prime Minister agrees with this. Statistics on the labour market and growth can be used. International comparisons can be made in different ways and we can see that we stand relatively well in comparison with other countries. But, Mr President, it does not give the whole truth. I have spent most of the past winter and spring traveling around Sweden. I've been to all the counties. I've met hundreds, maybe thousands, of people. My impression is that many people in our country are very concerned about the situation. They do not feel that the picture given by the government is consistent with the perception of reality that they themselves have. Then we have to ask ourselves, Mr President, whether all these people who express concern and who are concerned are wrong. Are they just looking to black out Sweden? Is the anxiety they feel unwarranted? I mean, it's not. The labour market in Sweden can be said to be relatively strong – that is right. But the number of unemployed is increasing. The employment gap between Swedes and non-Swedishs, immigrants, is greater than ever. Moreover, given that we are in a boom, the labour market should be considerably stronger than it is today. This is nothing, Mr President, for the government to boast of at all. I believe that it is best to assess the state of this country by looking at what society actually looks like and not just by digging into statistics. You have to look at: how do we manage the joint commitments? How do we satisfy the basic needs of the Swedish population? Look at the labour market! Look at how citizens feel about security! Look at the financial conditions of the elderly! Look at the situation for those with a need for personal assistance! Look at the staff density in school and preschool! Look at how public employees in health care are doing! Look at how the bluelight crew is doing! Look at the levels of knowledge and results in school! Look at how we stand in rape statistics internationally! Look at how trust in our country has developed! Look at how women in Sweden feel about going out when it's dark! Look at how integration works! Look at the cohesion of our country! Mr President, I would like to I can go on for a long time and list the shortcomings and shortcomings of the government, which not only fail to address the problems, but fail to even see the problems. I think that is serious, Mr President. Sweden is not well. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well. One of the most obvious examples of this is health care, the part of welfare that may affect people most because it is so clearly about people's lives and health. This is an alarming situation. It is lack of space, lack of staff, doctors who testify to the serious threat of patient safety and children being transported to other countries for treatment. It is not good enough, then, with small symbolic reinforcements of resources to which we can refer in rhetoric in such debates, but we need to do something real and in depth. First of all, we must now really invest in all the people who work in the healthcare sector so that they want to remain in the healthcare sector and, Mr President, so that more people also want to work in the healthcare sector in the future.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-39	Mr President, I would like to The coming years will determine the future of this planet. Either we manage to reduce emissions and build a sustainable future for our children and grandchildren or we fail. In that case, we are facing an uncertain and frightening future, because no one knows exactly what happens when the Arctic melts or when the oceans are saturated with carbon dioxide and heat. The only thing we can be sure of is that it is about great and fundamental changes for all humanity. Therefore, our generation's primary task is to avoid slipping over the threshold where the temperature rises run beyond control. Therefore, the climate issue must be put at the top of the political agenda. However, the climate issue is not just about avoiding disasters. It's also about thinking new, thinking that the world has a chance to be more sustainable, smarter and humane. The first step towards a better future is to think that it is possible, and even now we see that it is possible. Already, renewables are competing out fossil fuels. Already more and more electric cars are rolling on our roads, and in India plans for new coal power are being scrapped because solar cells are cheaper. Mr President, I would like to Those who want to remain in the old fossil society are fighting with all their might against this movement. The fight is not over. The world needs more than ever climate leadership, countries that go ahead and lead the way to fossil-free society. Tomorrow, this House will vote to introduce a climate law that will force every future government to pursue a responsible climate policy. This was the first and most important election promise of the Green Party, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the parties in this House who have been involved in the Environmental Objectives Committee and have made this possible. But a framework is not enough. We must also have a policy that actually reduces emissions. We have a lot to do to change the transport sector. This is why the government has invested in a climate offensive with the expansion of charging poles for e-cars throughout the country, a bonus – malus system that gets the transition to more environmentally friendly cars and a fuel change that forces petrol companies to mix more renewablely into their minds. Now it is also time for the flight to take on its responsibilities. Air travel is currently completely untaxed, and emissions from Swedes' international flights are only increasing. I am genuinely surprised that there are parties in this House who are struggling with beaks and claws so as not to bring down the emissions of aircraft and so that the aircraft will not have to pay for their emissions. The government will present a proposal for a flight tax, and we will also investigate a change of fuel for aviation. More than one instrument may be needed, which is also recognised by research as an effective way of controlling. In a world where air travel is growing rapidly, we need to speed up the transition that has barely started yet. Mr President, I would like to The fact that Sweden stands for global leadership became clear last week. I just got back from New York, where Sweden, together with Fiji, has led the world's largest conference for the oceans. Now we have finally started a global power collection to protect the oceans from plastic debris, from overfishing and from climate change. Let us be proud of this! Mr President, I would like to The planet is stressed, and we humans are stressed. Since 2010, mental illness in Sweden has doubled. Sick leave has increased by 80 percent in five years, and two out of three who enter the wall are women. This is an epidemic, and it's time we did something about it. I am therefore pleased that the government is taking these issues seriously, that we are investing in the work environment and youth psychiatry and that we have invested in women's health in particular. I am also pleased that we have set up an investigation to look at working life and new opportunities. It can be about taking an alternate year and trying new paths in life, having the opportunity to reduce working hours instead of increased pay, having the right to full time or the right to part-time for a period of breathing. It is about creating a more humane, modern society where people gain more power over their own time. These are ideas worth fighting for, because we need to create a society with both external and internal sustainability.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-54	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is about to split regionally and socially. We stand on top of a boom, but we stand there with several challenges that need to be resolved. We see a trend break when it comes to unemployment among foreign born, a trend break when it comes to climate emissions and a trend break when it comes to care queues. The curves point in the wrong direction, and this happens on Stefan Lövven's shift. It is clear that the Social Democrats have lost contact both with reality and with ordinary people. It is clear that Sweden needs the new leadership of the Alliance and the Center Party. Mr President, I would like to As I said, unemployment among people born abroad is increasing. More and more people are entering Arbetsförmedlingen, and it is the agency itself that has called this a trend crime. The walls of the labour market only grow higher and higher, especially if you are not born in Sweden and do not speak fluent Swedish. To reverse this trend, major reforms are needed. It takes lower costs to hire new arrivals. The Center Party has proposed that the employer's contribution be abolished for two years when you hire someone new to the labour market. The parties need to agree on lower entry wages for new arrivals so that more simple jobs can emerge – an attitude that even LO shares. The employment intermediary part of the Employment Service needs to be phased out and replaced by private intermediaries who receive compensation when a real, permanent job is transferred to the unemployed. Companies need reduced, competitive taxes and rules. In fact, figures speak for themselves: for every dollar the government invests in business, so to speak, the tax on jobs and growth is increased by tenfold. Stefan Lövven's promises of an active nutrition policy became an action programme, collaboration and coffeetime. However, companies do not need more mazarins; they need a prime minister who actually understands their circumstances and knows what an entrepreneur needs. Mr President, I would like to A trend break has occurred even when it comes to climate emissions. According to Statistics Sweden, emissions increased throughout 2016. That responsibility rests heavily on the government's shoulders. When the Minister for the Environment was a center party, climate emissions were reduced, renewable energy was expanded record-fast and more and more environmental cars were rolling on our streets. I respect the environmental party's commitment to climate change, but I have great concern about the party's ability to deliver environmental results. A policy that makes a difference is needed here. Effective action is needed, not environmentalist symbolism. We can clearly see the effects of climate change already now. We see them globally, but we also see them here in Sweden with dry wells. The Center Party is proposing a comprehensive green tax shift. We spend half a billion more than the government on railways, and we propose a powerful bonus of $100,000 when buying a new environmental car. We also propose a mandatory system for aviation with the compulsory incorporation of renewable fuel for all flights that take off from Swedish airports for a greener flight and for a better climate. Mr President, I would like to We also see a trend break when it comes to queues in healthcare. Now they are increasing to specialist care again. More people receive a letter in the mail with the words: Unfortunately, you cannot receive treatment within 30 days. There are also major regional differences between county councils in how to meet patients' health guarantee. You can handle it to 90 percent in alliance-led Halland but only 60 percent in Social Democratic Norrbotten. Access to healthcare splits Sweden. These are totally unacceptable differences. It is unfair, and it affects vulnerable people the hardest. The Center Party wants the care to get closer. We want to shorten the lines, and we want you to have the opportunity to see the same doctor when you are sick. We spend 1 billion annually on increasing accessibility by shortening the time from the first visit to a doctor until the treatment is started or you are healthy. It should be no more than three days before you get to see a doctor, and it should apply regardless of where in the country you live. For us, it is obvious to put the patient at the centre. Mr President, I would like to Sweden must stick together. For this to succeed, concrete proposals and reforms are needed to cope with integration and for foreign born people to get a job. Proposals are needed to bring about a real reduction in climate emissions and reforms to shorten queues and make healthcare more accessible. In words and deeds, the Center Party shows that we stand for the new leadership that Sweden needs.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. It is a matter of politics that a government talks about how well things are going and that an opposition talks about how bad things are going. That's how it works. But the pictures may split up more than ever. According to Stefan Löfven, growth, jobs and housing construction are very bright. When you listen to Jimmie Åkesson and Anna Kinberg Batra, they not only sound more and more alike in rhetoric and politics; they also paint an extremely gloomy picture where Sweden stands on the brink of disaster. How can you see it so differently? I think there's a natural explanation. The fact is that Sweden's economy is doing great. Sweden's employment is also doing very well; we stand out in the outside world. But not all Swedes are doing well. Many Swedes have no part in this success; they feel a deep frustration about how their own life looks and that others withdraw while they remain. It is all those who, with disappointment, open the orange envelope and realize that they will not make it on their pension. They are mostly women who have worked their whole lives. It is all young people who get text messages after texting jobs, hope for a substitute and never can plan their lives, never get that apartment. It is all those who never get anywhere to live and realize that they will never be able to afford the condos built in another part of the city. There, in inequality, in class society Sweden, is the gap. This is what it is all about. It is about inequality; it is about a class society. A CEO of a large Swedish company today earns 66 times as much as a nurse, and the difference is only increasing. Sweden's 178 billionaires have a fortune that is twice as large as the entire state budget that we decide on in Sweden. These gaps are just increasing. There is the Swedish class society. There is the Swedish inequality. That's the problem. This is evident in so many parts of our lives. Those with university education live on average five years longer than those who have not finished upper secondary school. Go between the districts and watch the life span fall! It's class society. Why is crime the highest in some areas? Because there's the lowest income. Where there are the least numbers who have finished high school and where there are the most young guys who can not get a regular job beats the criminal gangs root. It is also part of the Swedish class society. In this situation, the Swedish Right, the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats are arguing to increase the class differences, to reduce the tax burden on those with the highest income and to reduce the wages of those who already earn the least with state intervention. They do not talk about education and that people should get a chance; they talk about how to lower people's wages and increase their rent. This is what you do if you introduce market rents when there is an acute shortage of housing. You're gonna put gas on the fire that burns. You are going to make this so much worse. It is you who privatize welfare so that it is abundant in the rich neighborhoods but disappears from the poorest. It is you who want to sell out homes to private hosts who like to clean up expensively so that people can move from their homes. You're making the problem so much worse.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-86	There is a word for this in pure English: hypocrisy. It is to pretend that you care about people but actually have a policy that affects them fundamentally while those who have it the best always will get a little better. What surprises me is that the Social Democrats are so busy working with the very parties that want to go in this direction and that the stated aim is to compromise with those who want to lower wages and raise rents. No, it is with stronger well-being and better education that billionaires should contribute more to the common good while those who work should be able to live on their job that we build a sustainable society, not by going to bourgeois politics. There is a difference between left and right in politics.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-90	Mr President, I would like to When my sons ran out on summer vacation the other day, I, like all parents do in that situation, was filled with confidence. The blooming time is coming, and my friends' children are taking the student and singing about the bright future. I want the dreams that children and young people carry to come true. I want whatever insight they had when they entered school, to leave it with the prospect that they can move mountains. I want that whatever they bring in their backpack from home on the first day, they will wear the backpack full of life chances on the last day. I've made the class trip, just like Stefan Löfven. The expectations of the surrounding society were that we should be at the textile factory. The school and the teachers lifted me to see views that I had not seen before. Mr President, I would like to Today I see a very worrying development in Sweden. I see life chances waning and class trips cancelled. I see a society that is increasingly drifting apart. I see a gap between those who have freedom and those who do not. I see a country that has received many people on the run, and I see a country that allows these people into Sweden geographically but then does not let them into society. I see a country where the divides are increasing. I see people who are forced to live on benefits but who would like to and could live on a salary. I see their kids growing up with parents who don't go to work. I see children coming as new arrivals who are immediately expected to be as able as children who have grown up here. Otherwise, they'll be labeled as failing. I see children who risk being raised more in religious extremism than in knowledge. I see girls and young women being oppressed and denied human rights. I see pensioners who are afraid to go out because of growing gang crime. I see those who live with disabilities who are deprived of the right to live fully in our society. I see a government that is too tired and powerless to be able to carry out the fairly large reforms needed to face up to this. This is Sweden's biggest challenge in the coming years. No task is greater. The gaps are to be bridged. Sweden should not be torn apart; Sweden should stick together.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-103	Mr President, I would like to After a gloomy 2016 with Trump and Brexit, the development in Europe has started to reverse. In country after country, the results of the elections now point to the fact that right-wing extremism may have been peaking. In Britain, the xenophobic party was wiped out in the elections last week. Le Pen is very disappointed. In the Netherlands, Wilder's party is kept out of political influence, and Angela Merkel would never think of giving influence to right-wing extremists. It's about the values that hold a country together. There are those who want to deprive people of the chance of the class trips that globalisation has made possible. There are those who believe that division and division between people are the way forward for a society that should stick together. Mr President, I would like to To keep extremism out of power and influence, to hold Sweden together and to bridge gaps – that is the liberal main task in the coming years in our country.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-107	Mr President, I would like to a lack of staff in hospitals worse this summer, wrote Svenska Dagbladet the other day. SVT trumpeted out the heading, where the head of operations at the women's clinic in the red-green window invites summer residents to go home and give birth. And no one will have forgotten the ABF courses in car birth in connection with the closure of BB in Sollefteå last winter. Behind the headlines, Mr President, are people who have longer waiting times and miss out on care. The government has actively chosen to remove a well-functioning reform, namely the Alliance's cue billion. In comparison with eleven other countries, Sweden is only in ninth place when it comes to waiting times both to specialists and to surgery. In addition, every other patient is forced to wait more than three hours, and the longest can, according to the National Board of Health and Welfare, those over 80 years of age wait in the emergency room. There is a difference when a Christian Democrat is responsible for care and when a Social Democrat does. We introduced the queue billions, which shortened the care queues. You took it off-- what happens then? Yes, the lines are growing. It is no wonder that the Swedish people think that healthcare and elderly issues are some of the most important issues. People simply want those in need of care to receive the best possible care and for the elderly to receive good and dignified care. It is about caring and caring for fellow humans, but also about the concern that relatives or perhaps you should not fit in the retirement home when that time comes. Mr President, I would like to When care is treated with major recruitment difficulties, patients are affected. This time of year, it is most difficult to recruit staff, especially specialist nurses and midwives, but also nurses and specialist doctors. SKL, Sweden Municipalities and County Councils, asked earlier this year county councils and regions what the staffing situation in healthcare looks like in summer 2017 compared to summer 2016. In all county councils except one, it was said that the situation is as bad as last year or worse. This does not bode well for summer holidays. Mr President, I would like to The fact that health care cannot meet the need during the summer is bad. Unfortunately, it looks bad even for the rest of the year. Let's just look at the health guarantee! The number of people who have expected more than 90 days of specialist care or surgery is considerably higher now than in 2015. Between 7 and 8 percent fewer people receive help within the healthcare guarantee. The figures in the statistics are people – people with diagnoses and whose pain and symptoms need to be alleviated and cured. Mr President, I would like to It looks different in different county councils, but the trend is clear: It requires a thorough change in the care system, for the patients' sake, for increased equivalence and for shorter care queues. Landstingen was given responsibility for care in the 1800s! This model is supposed to work even today but is hardly adapted to today's needs and today's advanced healthcare. It's time to nationalize hospital care! Mr President, I would like to Older people deserve our respect in care. We Christian Democrats set aside 3 billion for improved primary care. You should see a doctor no later than the day after contacting your health care centre. We are introducing a retirement home guarantee so that the elderly over 85 can decide for themselves when to move into a retirement home. Older people deserve our respect in the labour market. They have knowledge and experience that we younger people don't have. We want everyone who can and can work as long as they want. We Christian Democrats are removing the special wage tax for the elderly and introducing a double job tax deduction for all those who turned 64. It will pay to work, even as a senior. Mr President, I would like to Older people deserve our respect. Every pensioner will receive a decent pension. The Alliance government reduced taxes on pensioners on five occasions, and the Christian Democrats have always had the goal of eliminating the tax gap between employees and pensioners. Now we are taking away the whole so-called pensioner tax from Christian Democrats. PRO says we are the party that is taking the biggest step. Yes, Mr President, we are taking the whole step. This is an urgent economic issue, but it is above all a question of dignity and justice, because, Mr President, nothing says so much about a country as how to treat its elderly.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-120	Mr President, I would like to We all agree that there is much to be done to make our Sweden an even better country. I am convinced that all the problems and challenges we have, but also the opportunities we face, are best dealt with together and in cooperation. But not to any of the questions that have been raised here today or in some of the areas that have been identified is the answer to less joint investment, increased gaps and greater unfunded tax cuts. It is not the answer for health care, for school, for the police, for the elderly, for jobs or for the climate. Nor is that the answer to the question of the establishment of new arrivals. Here is now the clearest dividing line in Swedish politics: the government on one side and the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats on the other. We give priority to investments in the construction of our society. We are developing the Swedish model, and you want to drain the building of society on resources. The Moderates alone will reduce taxes by SEK 30 billion. If you add the other bourgeois parties, there will be 70 billion. And if you are going to be with the Swedish Democrats and you add them, it will be SEK 100 billion in tax cuts. Does anyone think that these investments will improve health care? Together, this is a disaster, and my question is why. Why, Anna Kinberg Batra and Jimmie Åkesson, do you want to go back to a policy that has been tried, at the latest for eight years between 2006 and 2014, and which was a failure? It led to higher unemployment, eroded public finances, increased gaps and blows to welfare. Why?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-125	Mr President, I would like to During this morning and in the coming year, we will be able to come back to why it is so important that it pays better to work. I look forward to those debates. In short, you can say this: If people don't go to work in the mornings and it pays off, you can't manage welfare or security. I look forward to continuing to try to explain this to the Prime Minister. But first I'd like to ask you a question. Last Sunday I read in a newspaper that the number of areas particularly affected by crime is increasing and would now be eight more than before. Is this correct?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-127	Mr President, I would like to We are awaiting a report from the Police Authority, in which they will report on the situation of particularly vulnerable areas. The Commissioner himself said in April that they are likely to increase. Now we wait for the report, and then we'll see. It is good that it is now lifted up how it looks and where we have the biggest problems. But it is also good to think about what to do about it. Unfortunately for you, Anna Kinberg Batra, the solution is not large unfunded tax cuts. The solution is more resources, including for the police. We must ensure that the police organisation has an impact so that the police are closer to the citizens. But we must also tackle the causes of crime. What is it that leads people into crime? For many young people, it's poor education – they have too bad schooling – and for many, it's that you go unemployed for far too long. It will also be addressed. It is not solved by major tax cuts. It is not solved with cooperation with the Swedish Democrats, I can promise you that.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-129	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and you who follow this debate from outside! So now you have heard the country's highest responsible for the reality, for how law and order are maintained in the country and ultimately also for the police authorities to assume their responsibility for what is actually happening in areas that are in danger of crime. So he still does not accept that responsibility. That's remarkable. When one in three women is insecure, more police officers are required to get better paid, that the police can do their job and more severe penalties for, among other things, sex offenders. Year after year, Stefan Löfven has now stood here and talked about other things and prioritised other things. For example, why has it been so much more important for Stefan Löfven in recent years to establish a new gender equality agency than to open the police station in southern Järva?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-131	Mr President, I would like to I think we should both be a little humble. During your reign, exclusion increased, in your own opinion. That's the truth. So what are we gonna do? Well, we have to make sure the police get more resources. The police will have more resources. We agreed on the reorganisation, but something more needs to be done. A society must be built in which these people feel: we are in. We get an education that makes us come out into adulthood as strong and free individuals and can take the jobs. We must ensure that these people get jobs. We must have areas that are socially acceptable, good and pleasant. This is the kind of community building that we have now begun. We have big problems in front of us in Sweden, there is no doubt about that, but we also have great opportunities. I am convinced that if we invest in each other, these people also have a better future. It is far more successful than large unfunded tax cuts.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-133	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven asks: Why? I think that this is an issue that should be used more in politics and in political debate. We have heard two speeches from the Prime Minister, where he has talked about how well our country is doing. He's been talking about how good he's been at creating order. He has talked about how well he has been at creating order and order in immigration policy. But if you look at what it will look like in the coming years, you can see that hundreds of thousands of people are expected to come to our country. Then I wonder, where are they going to live? Where are they going to work? What schools are their children going to? In short, Mr President, how will Stefan Löfven solve this? My claim is that Stefan Löfven has not created order at all. He has not even understood the problems that he has contributed to creating. Please, Stefan Löfven, try to understand the problems and do something about them!
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-136	Mr President, I would like to My mission includes seeing what are challenges and problems but also what are opportunities. When the refugee crisis occurred in the autumn of 2015, from September onwards, and when other countries did not shoulder their responsibilities, we laid down refugee policy. It is our government that has ensured that other countries take more responsibility. It's working now. We have a great challenge with all the people who have come here, both in terms of those who came here seeking asylum and are being rejected – they have to leave the country so that we have regulated immigration – and those who came here and get yes and who are going to enter our society as quickly as possible. Then it is not possible, as the Swedish Democrats, to withdraw labour market policy measures also for those people who are going to do right themselves and contribute in our society. We invest in housing, we invest in education and we invest in hundreds of new schools in the future. We're gonna invest together, not lower taxes, Jimmie Åkesson.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-139	Mr President, I would like to We've heard that, and that's not what I asked. There have been a lot of people, and we already have big problems. The employment gap between Swedes and immigrants is huge, and it is growing and growing. But there will be hundreds of thousands more people. Although Stefan Löfven has tightened up and even though Stefan Löfven has created this order, there will be hundreds of thousands more people in the next few years, and then my question was: Where are they going to work? Where are they going to live? If we do not even have jobs and housing for those who have come here now, how are we going to solve the situation of the hundreds of thousands of people who will come to Sweden in the next few years? That's what I wanted answers to. Or is Stefan Löfven prepared to tighten up and for once take responsibility in time before the problem is here? Is he prepared to see the problem and anticipate it and act before we have further fragmentation and segregation in Sweden?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-141	Mr President, I would like to First of all, Åkesson needs to update himself a little and read Arbetsförmedlingen's report from yesterday. It turns out that the employment gap between those who live here and those who come here is narrowing. It does not reduce enough, but it needs to reduce more. But then the question is which way to go. Are we going after huge tax cuts? For example, the Swedish Democrats want to reduce the tax for those who earn SEK 100 000 per month by SEK 46 000 per year. There won't be any investments then, Åkesson! We're building housing. I can't tell you exactly where these people are going to live – Åkesson will have to think about what address they're going to have – but we're building housing. This year we have a building act on maybe 80 000 homes. We have to invest together. We're gonna invest in housing and jobs, and we're gonna make this an opportunity. Then the country will go well – not if you lower taxes and sit on the knee of Kinberg Batra.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-143	Mr President, I would like to Before the election Stefan Löfven promised gold and green forests to all the country's entrepreneurs. Sweden would be reindustrialised, and an active industrial policy would be pursued. But after the election, the big bets have not gone. Instead, the government has put more of a lever in the way of companies than has the manage of 30 billion in increased tax pressure, deteriorating conditions for the country's small and medium-sized enterprises and questioning whether companies should actually be able to make profits. Stefan Lövven's definition of what is a good business environment and job creation clearly differs from that of those who run companies. Companies have received more invitations to discuss action programmes over coffee than reforms for more competitive taxes and rules. A coffee doesn't pay bills. A coordinator or coffee does not create new jobs. I would therefore like to ask Stefan Löfven: when did an active economic policy become the same as inviting you to mazarinfikor?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-146	Mr President, I would like to I wish I could even say it was good rhetoric, but it wasn't. The difference, Annie Lööf, between when you were in government and when we are in government is that unemployment is falling. It's sunk so far. We have 200 000 more in work. Youth unemployment has not been so low in 13 years. We have the highest employment rate ever in Europe. Then the question is, am I satisfied? No. Are we on the right track? Yeah. I mean, we are. We invest in housing, in infrastructure, in education and in schools. I could continue to line up the investments we make. That's the difference, Annie Lööf. You are also included in this that you should reduce taxes by SEK 70 billion if we do not think about the Swedish Democrats. It is not possible to point out all the problems and say that they should be solved with reduced taxes. It won't hold. You have to invest. You have to invest in each other. You're supposed to work together and make sure we help each other. It's Sweden. It's the Swedish model.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-150	Mr President, I would like to Stef an Löfven sounds like an old ra's maid record. It is an echo from the historical election movements of the Social Democrats with the debate on reduced taxes against welfare. The year in power of the Alliance government showed that we could reduce taxes on job creation and get more people to work, and we spent billions more on welfare. It was historic efforts, so stop that rhetoric. It is not just me who is sceptical about Stefan Lövven's entrepreneurial policy. Only 11% in business has confidence in the policies that he and the government pursues, according to a survey carried out by Today's industry. 11% – this is a signal that the country's Prime Minister should take seriously. When the government's policy is reviewed, it turns out that when you give 1 crown to the business community, as the government does, you take it ten times back. It's a really bad trade, I'd say. I would like to ask Stefan Löfven once again whether he is satisfied with the active industrial policy he pursues, when the companies receive 1 crown and he then steals it ten times back.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-154	Mr President, I would like to If 200 000 more people go to work today than when I took office, I see it as a success - yes. If unemployment is lower than when I took office, I think it is moving in the right direction. So should Annie Lööf. However, there are far more challenges ahead; there is no doubt about it. But when I talk to business, I can now say: now you have the cross-block agreement on energy that you have been asking for 30 years. It's there now. We have now cleaned up the risk capital supply from the state, and now even entrepreneurs and small businesses can benefit from the risk capital. What is the business community asking for in terms of labour force? Well, it's pretty trained labor. In practice, you would have dropped that training. Now we are investing in education, so that the people who go unemployed can take the 100 000 jobs that are actually available. They're going to be possessed. We shall ensure that this is done through joint investments. Tax cuts are not possible.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-157	Mr President, I would like to Last week I visited the emergency department at Karolinska University Hospital in Huddinge. They have had great challenges, just like other emergency departments, and an incredible workload. A few years ago, it was a crisis. The services were difficult to fill, many left after a few years and the sickness rates were very high. Many of those who trained new ones were quite new themselves. Maybe they'd been working for a year in the hospital. The staff were then asked what solutions they wanted to see. The staff suggested shorter working hours. Now you have 32 hours of working week with a continued salary, the sickness rate has fallen dramatically, the staff stops and says: Finally I can manage. We suggest that this should be done all over Sweden. In each municipality and in each region, you will be allowed to go down to 6 hours' working day while maintaining pay in a workplace, and this will receive state support in the future state budget. This is the future. Is Stefan Löfven in on this?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-160	Mr President, I would like to As far as the present, the past and the future are concerned, it is the parties who, in my opinion, are going to settle the terms and conditions of the labour market. I think that is a very good solution. There are many parties who have negotiated the reduction of working time in slightly different forms. Some have negotiated a reduction in working time per working day and others have negotiated a reduction in working time per week. Others may accumulate this time for a year. I think that is an excellent solution. So let the parties handle this. On the other hand, we need to inject resources into hospitals and health care, and we have done so now. In addition to the 10 welfare billions that go widely to municipalities and county councils, we have raised to SEK 6 billion in order to be able to hire more people to facilitate the organisation of work in hospitals – for better cancer care, for better childbirth care and so on. We will add another SEK 3 billion. We push resources, and then we let the parties deal with it – if they want to shorten working hours or if they want to do something else. I want to stick to that model – the parties settle the terms and conditions of the labour market.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-163	Mr President, I would like to We're a party. We're employers. The public sector is an employer. I believe that it is the public workplaces that we should take responsibility for, allowing thousands of people in schools, health care and care for the elderly to take part in shorter working hours. We know that the results are good where we have tried. It's taking responsibility as a party. There was also a time when the labour movement politically pushed the demand for shorter working hours hard – 8 hours working day, 40 hours working week. This House has taken important decisions in the past to shorten working hours. Why should we abdicate from political responsibility today, to solve the challenges of the future and give people an opportunity for better health, a richer life, more time for their families and energy to work until they retire? We are ready to make the next major welfare reform and to start the journey towards shorter working hours. But why do the Social Democrats hesitate?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-166	Mr President, I would like to As for the battle of eight hours' working day, let us remember that we then had an extremely weak and inflated trade union movement. It was no wonder that this was being pursued politically at the time. That's not what it looks like now. Now we have two equal partners in the labour market. I believe that they should continue to deal with this, including any reduction in working time. It's going on here and now, Jonas Sjöstedt. When I was president of IF Metall, we shortened working hours. We did not have to wait for Jonas Sjöstedt's approval in Parliament. We made agreements on this ourselves. I think that the parties should continue to conclude these agreements. I would like to remind you that we, as employers in Sweden's municipalities and county councils, have also concluded very important agreements, and this concerns the right to full-time employment. Now there is the right to full time also for health professionals. That is what they wanted in the first place. We've delivered that.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-169	Mr President, I would like to They may be excused by a prime minister to try to make it sound as if the strong European boom that is now sweeping the West is due to the Swedish government. And that the development of jobs in Sweden is moving in the right direction is gratifying. But the big concern is that unemployment is increasing among newcomers. Despite the fact that we have a strong economic situation in the western world, the gap in Sweden is increasing. Stefan Löfven went to elections a few years ago to reduce the gap. Now it is going the other way, despite the boom. What Stefan Löfven says is that the new arrivals will get trainee jobs, rescue jobs, Amactions and A-kassa. That is the solution to this. But this is really due to the fact that the thresholds for entry into the labour market are too high. Stefan Löfven, why don't you ever talk about the new arrivals getting real jobs?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-173	Mr President, I would like to I was at the hospital in Skövde, Jan Björklund. Then I met a doctor who had come from Syria. She had started an internship at the hospital and will later be working as a doctor. Several of these new arrivals work in what you, Jan Björklund, call real jobs. A lot of people will. But of course we also have a challenge in the people who come to Sweden or who live in Sweden and who have far too little education. Then the question is whether the solution is primarily to adapt the entire Swedish labour market to it, or whether we should give them an opportunity to adapt to the Swedish labour market. Not least for young people, I prefer to invest in education, so that they become strong throughout their working lives. And the elderly may need employment support and other things in real jobs with decent conditions. Everyone who can work is going to work. But when you're working, you should be able to live on your salary.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-175	Mr President, I would like to When you work, you should be able to live on your salary," says the Prime Minister. But they're not working! That's the problem. They'll be out of work. So unemployment is rising. I do not know that this has happened before in modern Swedish history that we have such a strong economy while unemployment is increasing. The gaps are increasing in this group. That is what is so troubling. And you have no answers. The Prime Minister has been in line after a reply and has said that the gaps should be combated through increased taxes. I'm sorry, that's not the answer. The answer is more jobs for those with low education. The doctors, Stefan Löfven, are not the problem. They'll get a job, even if it takes too long. But they get jobs. It is the low-skilled who need jobs, and there are very many of them. Half of those who come from Syria have not even finished primary school with Swedish standards. That's the problem. It is not increased taxes that are needed to combat inequalities, but a more flexible labour market. You Social Democrats believe that divides are best combated by fighting wealth. We Liberals believe that poverty should be combated.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-180	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals' party presidents are also allowed to update themselves. The gaps are narrowing between those who come to Sweden and those who are in Sweden when it comes to employment, but not enough. That's what Arbetsförmedlingen says. But at least we have to admit it when it goes in the right direction. Don't black out, Björklund! Besides, you're saying they're not working, like everyone who comes here isn't working. What kind of rhetoric is that? Instead, look at what is the problem. There are, of course, some who find it more difficult to enter the labour market, not least those who have a low level of education. But should we say that we are now going to create a low-wage sector and adapt the entire Swedish economy and labour market – the five million employees who are here today – to those who come here? I mean exactly the opposite; we are going to adapt those who come here to the Swedish labour market – give them an education, give them a decent job, nice conditions and ensure that they also get to work and do the right thing and pay taxes. That's the solution.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-183	Mr President, I would like to Nothing says so much about a country as how it treats its elderly. They deserve respect and dignity. The Christian Democrats have proposed a retirement home guarantee. It is simple and means that everyone who is over 85 years old should be allowed to decide for themselves when it is time to move into a retirement home. For us, it is about dignity, empowerment and trust. In the party leader debate here in Parliament a year ago, I asked the Prime Minister if he was prepared to give everyone over 85 years of this right and give them back their self-power. Then the Prime Minister opened up to introduce a retirement home guarantee, which pleased me. Today, a year later, however, nothing has happened. Why not, Stefan Löfven?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-185	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to the elderly, we must be clear that those who built our country should have the best conditions during their old age. That's why we're going to invest in the elderly. The former bourgeois government did not. First of all, it saw to it that the tax gap between those who work and the elderly was increased – pensioners received a relatively higher tax as a thank-you. Now the Christian Democrats are going to propose a job tax deduction to, which increases that gap even further. So you're in a very strange t limbo, Andreas Carlson. You say that you want to remove the gap completely, and you are going there with another job tax deduction. What happens then? Then the gap increases. Explain it to the elderly! Also explain why you did not invest enough in retirement homes, which you did not do when you were in power. We are now investing in retirement homes – for real – so that the elderly can have a good living in the autumn of their age. It is the most important solution: to make sure there is accommodation. We shall also see whether it is possible to have such a guarantee as the Christian Democrats ask for, but we must invest first.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-187	Mr President, I would like to First of all, that's exactly what we're doing. We invest, and we invest in the elderly. We did so under the alliance government; we carried out a guarantee of dignity, freedom of choice for the elderly, and a couple-dwelling guarantee that makes it impossible for the elderly to be separated in the autumn if one party needs to move into a retirement home. Then we have investments in primary care and a nursing lift. We have a national dementia plan and a meal lift. So don't tell me we don't have bets on the elderly, Stefan Löfven! We'll lower the pensioner's tax-- we'll take it out completely. But last time I checked, Stefan Löfven didn't want to remove the job tax deduction either, so the rhetoric from the Prime Minister sounds false. Why is the Prime Minister pretending that he wants to introduce a retirement home guarantee when he has not produced a proposal for this? If the Prime Minister does not think that older people over 85 years should be allowed to decide for themselves when it is time to move into a retirement home, it is better that the Prime Minister is honest and says so.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-189	Mr President, I would like to I like action more than placard politics. The Christian Democrats can write as many suggestions as possible for guarantees, but there must be accommodation where the elderly can move. In fact, the number of places in retirement homes decreased during your time at the government, Andreas Carlson. It's a fact. We are now introducing investment aid so that we can build more retirement homes, and then there will actually be more opportunities for older people to get those places. It is action for real and not placard politics. You don't come from wanting a job tax deduction to Andreas Carlson. At least if you are going to sit in the same government as Anna Kinberg Batra, there will be another job tax deduction, and then you will have to explain to pensioners why you want to remove the tax gap and at the same time go there with a job tax deduction that increases the gap. That equation just doesn't add up.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-191	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven has now been Sweden's Prime Minister for three years. He's been lucky with the business cycle. Happy birthday! Otherwise, however, it is three years lost for Sweden. It is now taking longer for immigrants to get a job, and the number of job seekers is increasing – in a boom. It is more expensive and more complicated to create jobs in Sweden. The heavy crime rate is increasing in several areas. The problems are getting bigger, and the Prime Minister is still struggling not to solve them. Mr President, I would like to Sometimes I think it is important to stop and reflect on why we are doing this. What drives you? For me, the answer is very simple. I want to be able to look my now eleven-year-old daughter in the eye and tell her that Sweden will know more when she grows up, when she grows up and when she grows old. Then people must be able to grow and become what they can and want to be. The obstacles to it must be demolished. Sweden should be able to be a country where people enter society and do not get caught up in exclusion, and then we must start with jobs, integration obligations and grant ceilings. Sweden should be able to be a country where job creators grow in and move to, not move away from. Then we have to start by reducing taxes on jobs – 500 a month if you work and do the right thing. We also need better conditions for companies in Sweden. Sweden should be able to be a country where the school gives everyone the opportunity to grow, where we are not content to be the country just in knowledge but dare to be the best and where we have zero tolerance to bad schools. Sweden must be able to have more areas of trust, faith in the future and hope, where there are more policemen with better pay that secure law order. The work line must be developed, not decommissioned. It is time for the whole of Sweden to work, otherwise we will not get there.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-195	Mr President, I would like to For me, order in the economy is absolutely fundamental. That is how we take responsibility for Sweden, and then we can have long-termness. Three times the Moderates have ruled Sweden in modern political times. Three times, large, unfunded tax cuts have been implemented, leaving major gaps in central government finances: 1976-82, 1991-1994 and 2006-2014. Budget deficits are now a moderate part of the economy. Now you're there with your fingers in the jam jar again, Anna Kinberg Batra. Together with the other bourgeois, you want to reduce taxes by 70 billion, and you add to the Swedish Democrats' proposal tax cuts of over SEK 100 billion. This corresponds to the cost of all health care staff. Can you explain where the money is going to be taken, Anna Kinberg Batra?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-198	Mr President, I would like to I can congratulate the Prime Minister not only on the economic boom but also on the fact that he is reaping the benefits of not only eight but nine alliance budgets. We could use another one as soon as possible. That is what gave Sweden 300 000 more jobs. This is what gave Sweden more foreign born people who worked than ever when we had to hand over government power in 2014. Make up your mind if you think it's good or bad, Stefan Löfven! Start talking about what you, as Head of Government, are going to do for the whole of Sweden to work for an hour or so into the debate.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-200	Mr President, I would like to That project has begun; it is called investments in our common Sweden. That is why 200 000 more people now have work to do, and that is why unemployment has fallen. It is symptomatic for the Moderates and Anna Kinberg Batra to talk about luck. We're lucky. When things go badly for the Moderates and the bourgeois, they have bad luck, and when things go well for us, we are lucky. For the past 40 years you have been in power for 17 years, Anna Kinberg Batra. On all these occasions, the budget deficit has gone away and unemployment has increased. We have taken care of the budget deficit and turned it into a surplus. You're unlucky, and we're lucky. If you have bad luck for 17 years, Anna Kinberg Batra, I think you should go out to the voters and say: Don't take our option, because then it will be bad luck! Take the other one. They're lucky.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-203	Mr President, I would like to Now the Prime Minister had only one minute to talk about his politics and what he wants to do for the whole of Sweden to work, but he didn't take the chance now either. I'm proud of the eight years of alliance government we had. You who travel so much, Stefan Löfven – ask heads of government and party leaders in other European countries how they managed the huge and deep crisis of the last few years! Ask them how they secured the resources for welfare and security. In our case, we did this: We made sure that it paid off to work. That's when we got 100 billion in fixed prices in increased resources for welfare. That's where the money comes from, Stefan Löfven. You're standing here talking about a lot of things today, except how to secure our welfare and security. It starts with people going to work in the mornings, and it starts with that it pays to work. I hear you're against this, but start telling the Swedish people what to do instead! You've had three years, and nothing's happened.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-206	Mr President, I would like to Security is important. For Anna Kinberg Batra, it's important-- that's what she just said. For the voters, security is perhaps the single most important issue right now. This is linked to the problems we have in society. It is related to how reality has evolved and how people experience reality. I think that's good. Security issues were one of the areas where the previous, moderate-led government completely failed. It did not take its responsibilities sufficiently clearly and did not do enough in this area. We have a police officer in crisis. Both me and Anna Kinberg Batra have noted that. We have a police officer in crisis, and it's a crisis that doesn't seem to subside. The police can't handle their mission. We have a chief of state police who can't do his job. At the same time, we have a responsible minister who expresses full confidence in the Head of the National Police. I ask Anna Kinberg Batra: are you prepared to try distrust of the minister responsible, so that we can get the police in this country back together?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-210	Mr President, I would like to The highest responsible for security, reality, the police and the police crisis in this country are behind me. It is remarkable that earlier today in this House he did not even respond to the extent to which crime is spreading. It is remarkable that so many police officers leave the profession and that police officers are missing and that they do not get the wage increases they deserve and the tools they need. This requires action, and these measures must be demonstrated by the government. It is very good that my patience with this is beginning to run out. I have also stated in the past that the police need better management. I think it starts in the government, where responsibility lies. I will continue to demand responsibility, and there are various instruments to do so.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-213	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect for the fact that there are many different instruments: on my part, a number of different instruments have been tested in this House during the three years of this term of office. Anna Kinberg Batra and her friends in the bourgeoisie have not been prepared to take a hard shot against it. You are very good at thinking about things, about complaining about the government and about telling you what is not working and what should be done. But so far, when the situation has been severe, it has been abandoned. That is why I repeat my question. We have a minister – in this case the Minister for the Interior – whom I think is ultimately responsible for the fact that the police are not working. Somewhere we have to do something in this House, otherwise nothing will happen. Do we really have time to wait another year and a half for something to happen? How much human suffering do we see in the year that remains until the next elections? Is Anna Kinberg Batra prepared to consider distrust of the minister responsible?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-217	Mr President, I would like to I note that mistrust is one of the instruments that exists for the accountability of this House against a government that is responsible to Parliament – not the other way round. But I'm not going to stand here and discuss this with Jimmie Åkesson now. I will continue to demand that the government delivers, and I will continue to have little patience if the government fails to deliver. It has had three years but has not managed to open a police station in one of Sweden's heaviest crime-ridden areas. If you don't deliver results, more will happen. What separates us is that I am also prepared to take responsibility in government. I'm prepared to discuss how it should be done. I want to implement more alliance policy. I am discussing this first of all with the alliance colleges, because we have a policy that is connected. But my patience with how Stefan Löfven takes responsibility for the police and security and for securing security in this country is indeed about to end.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-221	Mr President, I would like to I would like to talk about the greatest challenge of our time, and I note that the bourgeois Prime Minister candidate has so far not mentioned it in a single word. I am, of course, talking about the climate challenge. According to the scientists, we have a few years to turn the emission curve downwards. If we fail, we risk being hurled into a development beyond our control. We are in danger of seeing greatly elevated sea levels and extreme weather with drought. Against this background, I would like to ask Anna Kinberg Batra: How come you want to make it cheaper to release exhaust gases from petrol and diesel? How come you want to take b place every four crowns from the environment and climate budget? How is it that you want the flight to continue to be free from paying its climate costs? And how come you want to support yourself against the Swedish Democrats, who question climate change?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-224	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Isabella Lövin, for raising several important issues. One of the most important things we have done for the climate during this parliamentary term is that we and the Green Party together stopped the early retirement of nuclear power. If we're going to switch the fleet of vehicles from fossil fuel to fossil-free, and if we're going to get more electric cars, we need electricity generation. If we are to secure jobs, so that we can invest in the environment, it must not be too expensive to create jobs in our elongated country. I would like to thank the Green Party for helping to save nuclear power.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-227	Isabella Lövin also asked about the airline tax. I would like to say clearly that I am against it, which is because Sweden is an elongated country where we live by being able to transport between each other and between different places. Otherwise, Sweden does not stick together; otherwise we cannot do the jobs. Then it must not be too expensive and too difficult. The Green Party sometimes sounds in the rhetoric and in the debates like talking about tax shifting, but it is usually a bit short of that. This is the red tax increase advocated by the Green Party. The tax cuts that would reward something else are usually forgotten by the Green Party.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-229	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for your answer, although it was incoherent. On the other side of the Atlantic, we see the US leaving the Paris Agreement. Tomorrow we will be voting in this House on a new climate law. The only party that does not support this is the Swedish Democrats. What you have in common with the Swedish Democrats, Anna Kinberg Batra, is that you cut off every four crowns from the environmental and climate budget. You are not willing to go forward with a single instrument to reduce emissions. On the other hand, you want to reduce taxes on petrol and diesel. When it comes to nuclear power, it is interesting to note how the analysis differs greatly from Jan Björklund. He congratulated the Green Party on the energy agreement, because nuclear power would be scrapped. We are going to have 100% renewable energy in this country – this is what the energy agreement is all about. This is something that business – which, as Anna Kinberg Batra says, is job creation and wants long-term rules of play – congratulates us on. Sweden is at the forefront when it comes to climate leadership, and we get a lot of praise for that all over the world.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-234	Mr President, I will not spend speaking time discussing who has incoherent lines in this shift, but every time the Green Party makes a statement or a question about the climate, we usually discuss and state how important the Paris Agreement is. This is what Isabella Lövin knows. Instead, let us look at what separates us. Let's look at how Carl Schlyter congratulated the Moderates on the decision not to shut down nuclear power – otherwise it might have been gone by now. I do not think the important thing is that we wanted to keep nuclear power. Those who are to be congratulated here are industry, job creators and small businesses, who are working around the country to create jobs. Because that's how it's connected, Isabella Lövin. During the last moderate-led government – just like the next time, I hope – we could combine that it paid off to work and that the Swedish economy grew with lower emissions. But if we just cut and cut on transport, on job creation and on opportunities for the Swedish economy to be strong, we cannot afford to invest in research, the environment and climate.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-239	Mr President, I would like to Anna Kinberg Batra! In this debate, you have mentioned on a couple of occasions that you want a premium ceiling for some of Sweden's poorest families with children. A family with two adults and three children should never be able to get more in a month than you earn in five and a half days. I have another suggestion for you. It's that you should look at the country's deductors. They are considerably more expensive in operation than these poor families with children. You know who I'm talking about. They are found in the richest municipalities, for example in Djursholm and elsewhere. They are the ones who make the large interest rebates. They can be as big as they come. They're the ones who make the big ROT deductions and the RUT deductions. It creates big holes in the treasury. Are you prepared, Anna Kinberg Batra, to do something about the deductors, to set a limit on the amount of tax deductions you can make?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-242	Mr President, I would like to Last time I checked it was about nine out of ten families with children who used interest rebates, and this surrounded by an economic policy that Jonas Sjöstedt controls. This means that the finances of families with children are squeezed by you on a point-by-point basis. There'll be narrower margins. There'll be a lot more months left at the end of the money. That is why I am not prepared to tighten up further for families with children who already have tight margins, and we are talking about broad groups. I think it is important for Sweden to introduce a premium ceiling, because it is totally unreasonable for a family's income to be reduced when one in two adult beneficiaries start working. It is good that this difference comes to light. Jonas Sjöstedt may think it is a great idea. I don't think so. The most important exclusion is that of the labour market. I want to break that, and then we must both make demands and give help, carrots and the opportunity to get a job in order for more people to get out of the alienation. It is only then that we can really improve for the vulnerable families.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-245	Mr President, I would like to This is so typical of the Swedish right. Going after some of Sweden's poorest families with children is central to politics. But that then some of Sweden's millionaires and billionaires make large tax deductions should not be touched. That's how you keep a class society. That's how you build the divides. I believe that it is absolutely necessary to close these gaps in the tax system. You can start from the top – stairs are best cleaned from the top – and remove the absolute highest draw. It does not affect ordinary families with children. Instead, it affects those who own by far the largest villas and mansions. The money can be used to invest in welfare and education. But you always defend their interests. Those who already have everything should also be able to make the large tax deductions. I think it is time to reduce interest rebates and, at the same time, to reduce income tax, for example. That would benefit ordinary wage earners, but many of the millionaires, many of your core voters, would lose out on it. Why aren't you prepared to do this?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-249	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Sjöstedt can promise to call me the morning he is serious about reducing income tax for people who work. I don't think I'm going to see that day. On the contrary, he is now running economic policy. Nine out of ten families with children are covered by the interest rebates. They call Jonas Sjöstedt billionaires and the rich. I believe that the vast majority of the millions of households involved here would have a different view. Those who go after families here are Jonas Sjöstedt, with increased taxes for one and a half million wage earners, with a labour market policy that does not make it easier to get a job if you do not have anything. This means that those who are in exclusion now have more difficulty, not easier, to get in. That is why we need, for example, the RUT deductions. Now you have one minute to yell at it, too. But it's done black jobs white. It has created opportunities that the people who have these jobs didn't have before. These are the ones you go after, Jonas Sjöstedt, when you make it harder and more expensive to work in Sweden.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-252	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is torn apart. I do not know how many of the speakers in this congregation have used this expression today. I have looked back a little and I note that in my very first speech in this House, in November 2010, I used precisely the words "Sweden" torn apart. Then I described why Sweden is torn apart, namely as a result of irresponsible policies, as a result of diffuse and de facto ideas about how to deal with immigration-related problems, segregation and so on. That is what has happened and has continued to happen. Certainly, Mr President, one should be glad that more people, perhaps even everyone, in this House now understand that Sweden is being torn apart. It's good, but I'm sorry you didn't understand it before it got this bad. But what we need is not a Jimmie Åkesson standing here saying: What did I tell you? What we need is pragmatism. What we need in Swedish politics is cooperation and a spirit of cooperation. What we need in Swedish politics is to dare to look forward and talk about what visions we want to build this country on long-term. Mr President, I would like to I hope that we can devote the debate in the year that remains until the next election to how to keep our country together, break segregation and strengthen trust and citizenship in Swedish society, how to get the people who have come from other parts of the world to our country to truly become part of the Swedish nation. These are the issues that are all about the long term, Mr President, and I hope that they are the ones that the debate will be about in the future.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-255	Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs pragmatism but not populism and extremism. In this House, Jimmie Åkesson has stood a number of times talking about health care and pensioners. The truth about the policy of the Swedish Democrats is quite different. In Dagens Industri, the Swedish Democrats presented their tax reduction proposals, SEK 50 billion. Instead, it is money that they could spend on those who need care, on the elderly and on everyone we need to invest in. One of the tax proposals that the Swedish Democrats point out is that the person who earns 100 000 SEK per month will receive a tax reduction of 46 000 SEK, including Jimmie Åkesson himself. Is that a good economic policy? The assistant nurse who earns less than 38,000 would get nothing at all with this proposal. The Swedish democrats' talk about health care reform and all that can now be called is in fact a health care bluff.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-259	Mr President, I would like to Like the other parties in this Assembly, we present our policy, the coherent policy, about twice a year in connection with Parliament's decision on the budget. That's where we present our politics, not in any newspaper. I would like to ask Stefan Löfven once again to take note of our draft budgets. It shows what our policy is. Sure, we can stand in this House and throw tax increases and tax cuts in each other's heads. Tax is what we take in order to maintain our welfare. That's what it is. But it is not self-evident that a high tax burden, the world's highest tax burden, leads to the world's best welfare. We lower the tax on pensioners, we lower the tax on those who earn the least and we lower the tax on small and medium-sized enterprises. Stefan Löfven! It creates jobs and increases tax revenue. Is that so wrong? Why don't you want to increase your tax revenue? Why don't you want to lower the tax on retired people?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-262	Mr President, I would like to The government has begun to reduce the tax on pensioners and it will continue until the gap is over. Jimmie Åkesson wants to support a government that is going in with a new job tax deduction, the biggest in history. How does that make sense? Before the 2014 elections, Jimmie Åkesson said that it was important to reduce the pensioner's tax. After the elections, Jimmie Åkesson voted against such a proposal in this House. Then it fell. Otherwise, pensioners could have had a reduced tax already in 2015. You were against that. Before the elections, you were also against profits in welfare. At that time, you thought it would be better for taxpayers' money to go to what they were intended for, to care and care. After the election, you became the best friend of the venture capitalists. Then it was something completely different. The conclusion is that the Swedish Democrats say one thing and do something completely different. You cannot trust the Swedish Democrats. It's a populist party.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-267	Mr President, I would like to We end up here every time, Stefan Löfven. Can't you stick to what's true at some point? Must you constantly in your rhetoric splice and careless with the truth? Can't you stick to what's real, what's actually true? That is an appeal to the Prime Minister, Mr President. We are talking, for example, about profits in welfare. I think this is an important issue. I think it is important that tax funds go to what they are intended for. We went to elections on that, and I'm willing to fight for it. This does not mean that I am also prepared to side with the Left Party, which is opposed to everything that is done privately and actually wants to close it down. That's what the entire government's investigation is all about. It is the opposite, Stefan Löfven : We will ensure that we increase the quality and that tax funds are used for what they are to be used for while allowing diversity to apply in welfare.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-270	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson stood here earlier during the debate and looked at the social problems. I thought we should talk for a moment about what he is doing about them and what the policy of the Swedish Democrats is doing about them. To make demands, to introduce ceilings and to introduce integration obligations so that more people get jobs can be crucial for the development of this country. Today there are demands that you have to be prepared to apply for a job throughout the country if you have unemployment benefit. I want to tighten up that requirement so that it also applies to those who have supply aid. But the Swedish Democrats want to remove it. Moreover, the Swedish Democrats want more than any other party in this House to raise the contributions, the unemployment fund, for those who do not work. I wonder, therefore, why is it so important to invest in the subsidy line instead of the work line?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-273	Mr President, I would like to I do not think the subsidy line is an accessible route. It is not a path that I stand for either. Let us take the first example. Sweden is an elongated country with a large distance. Let us say that one loses one's job and that one lives somewhere far up in the country. From day one you have to apply for a job in Skåne. I am not prepared to take direct account of the consequences this has for people's family life and people's everyday lives. Of course, in the long term you have to be prepared to move to where the jobs are; I agree with that. But I do not think that the man that Anna Kinberg Batra wants should be forced to do so from the very first day in principle. I find it unreasonable to do so. As for the unemployment fund, what Anna Kinberg Batra does not describe the whole truth. I believe in a generous conversion insurance for a limited period of time but with a relatively rapid escalation to create incentives for people to go into work instead of living on unemployment funds.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-276	Mr President, I would like to If that's not the whole truth, Jimmie Åkesson, why have you written that in your own budget motion? That's where I take the examples. It's your choice. Either you give priority to grants or you give priority to work. Either you make demands that the person who lives from benefits does everything he or she can to be employable or you don't. So you want to reduce these requirements. And you stand here and say that the subsidy line is not a way forward. That doesn't make any sense. This is what separates us. Either you see a social problem, try to do something about it, have a plan for how it should happen and dare prioritise things that give results – or you just stand here and complain but do nothing, like Jimmie Åkesson.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-279	Mr President, I would like to If anyone has been standing in this Chamber for three years complaining without doing anything, it is Anna Kinberg Batra and her alliance colleagues. We have given you several opportunities to achieve something here, but you never take the chance. So I'm not gonna take that off. I don't think it's that black or white. It is possible that Anna Kinberg Batra lives in the idea that you either live on grants or work. But that's not the case. People, for example, can end up between two jobs. Then I do not think it is reasonable that just because you end up between two jobs, you should have to sell a house and a car and whatever it is that you have. Instead, for a limited period of time, we should have generous conversion insurance so that people can take jobs for which they are competent and so that we get a good match in the labour market. However, if you are unemployed for a longer period of time, there should also be an escalation in the unemployment benefit fund. How Anna Kinberg Batra can call this the grant line completely transcends my mind. I think that this is a good middle ground in order not to create unnecessary suffering and not to further widen the gaps in society.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-282	Mr President, I would like to Scientists warn that climate change is moving faster than previously thought. For most of us, then, the natural reaction is to try to do something about the problem and slow down warming before it is too late. But there is also another way to deal with the problem: to deny it and pretend that it does not exist. This is how the Swedish Democrats spokesperson Martin Kinnunen expressed himself in a climate debate last autumn: Climate research is alive. There are many different scenarios for the temperature, and we cannot say for certain whether it is human influence that drives the temperature increase.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-285	Mr President, I would like to Now we're in this black and white again. I believe that one must be able to question the government's priorities without being accused of denying or demeaning one. We know that the earth's climate is changing. We fully agree that this is the case. The question is: What should Sweden do in Sweden to prevent this from happening compared to what other countries should do? Sweden releases almost nothing compared to other countries. What, then, is most reasonable – that we invest in Sweden in reducing emissions with the result that jobs are lost, that people are forced from rural areas and so on, or that we ensure that the countries that emit the most also do the most? The latter, I think, is the reasonable policy.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-288	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the clarification, Jimmie Åkesson! It is gratifying that, unlike your party friends, you believe that climate change is real. But then the question is: why are you pursuing a policy of completely ignoring the climate threat? You say that Sweden's emissions are minimal. That reasoning, for example, does not buy the governor of California, who has taken his own responsibility for the Paris Agreement and climate change as the US now leaves the agreement. Each discharge has a local source. It is also very remarkable that the Swedish Democrats claim that a transition to a renewable and climate-smart society would threaten jobs when the industry and the export industry are of exactly the opposite opinion. Sweden's competitive advantage is that we are environmentally advanced and progressive. We have a uniquely strong brand, and we have the opportunity to show global leadership. And we will.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-291	Mr President, I would like to We are also investing heavily in research and development, for example, which I believe is considerably more effective than the environmental policy pursued by the government. Just to be clear: If it costs 100 SEK to reduce emissions in Sweden with one unit and 1 øre to do so in China – where do we do it then most effective, Isabella Lövin? What is most effective? What Isabella Lövin and the government are saying in climate policy is that Sweden should pay a lot of money so that Poland, Bulgaria and other countries can continue to release. It is not effective policy. It is effective to use the money where it is most useful, and it is not in Sweden. The effective is not air taxes and not to make it more difficult for people to live in the Swedish countryside. That is, for example, that we are fighting coal power in China.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-294	Mr President, I would like to Just a few days ago Jimmie Åkesson's absolute closest man, party secretary Richard Jomshof, spread a picture that described religion Islam as a Trojan horse in war against the West. We all know the story of how the Greeks plundered and divided and resorted to violence to force the people of Troy into submission. They took women and children as slaves. So the party secretary of the Swedish Democrats seems to think that religion Islam is the Trojan horse of our time. He seems to mean that the doctors who are Muslims and who every day save the lives of people in Sweden are a threat. He seems to think that the teachers who are Muslims and who every day teach our children to read and count in school conspire against the West. He seems to think that the policemen who are Muslims and who do their utmost every day to make us feel safe are actually fooling us. My question to Jimmie Åkesson is therefore: What is this analysis based on? Do the Swedish Democrats believe that religion Islam is a Trojan horse?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-297	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that either my party secretary or my party representatives believe that policemen, doctors or people who in different ways have important roles in society are a threat to Swedish society or are some kind of Trojan horse. On the other hand, I am convinced that in our country there are people who do not have good intentions. There are people who have exploited our naivety, exploited our lack of responsibility, exploited the fact that we do not want to maintain our border controls and so on to get into Sweden for example to steal a truck, plow at a very high speed down Drottninggatan and mow down and murder people. There is, and there is not only one. There are many of them in our country, and what they usually have in common is religion. This does not mean that religion is a Trojan horse, but that means that we must not be naive.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-300	Mr President, I would like to Yes, but now it was precisely religion Islam that was obviously a Trojan horse. We're supposed to fight religious fundamentalism. Islamism we shall fight. Sweden faces major challenges in this area. Returning IS terrorists, people who murder in the name of religion and terrorists who are found are a threat. Honorary culture and religious extremism must be combated. But teachers who teach our children and who are Muslims are not a threat. Doctors who save lives in our hospitals do not represent oppression. Small entrepreneurs opening a new store are not a social hazard. It is precisely religion Islam, Jimmie Åkesson, that your party comrades argue against. I would therefore ask you: do you agree with Richard Jomshof that religion Islam is a Trojan horse against the West?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-304	Mr President, I would like to It may be up to the individual, but I don't think you become a doctor because you're a Muslim. I don't think you open an affair with reference to a particular religion or anything. On the other hand, what is common to many of those who engage in terror in our part of the world is that they refer precisely to the religion of Islam. This does not mean that all people who have a Muslim faith are potential terrorists. On the contrary, I am absolutely convinced that the vast majority of people who have this faith are very law - abiding, caring, fine people who want well and have good intentions. But there is and has been a hugely widespread naivety in Swedish society, where one has not understood that there are also people who refer to this religion who have evil intentions and where one has not understood that when cultures and value systems clash as has happened in Swedish society we get problems. That is what we point to when we highlight this issue.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-307	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson! During this debate, you have on several occasions raised the problems of crime and how to combat it. You often mention crime while talking about immigration. But I wonder, Jimmie Åkesson, if you're the right person to talk about how to fight crime. Anders Forsberg has ended up in the Swedish Democrats' parliamentary group. Criminal jurisdiction: gross embezzlement. Kent Ekeroth's still here. Criminal harassment for the prosecution: assault. When you are at a group meeting, you look out at people who are convicted of assault, for theft, for narcotics crimes, for fences, for violence against officials, etc. Are you really the right person to talk about how to fight crime?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-311	Mr President, I would like to The issue is rhetorical, and I think that the level of the debate is rather low when we use this type of individual example. But it is in many ways an interesting question of principle, I think. Is it, for example, Jonas Sjöstedt's view that if you have done something criminal in your life – it may be that you have missed accounting or that because of a comment that someone else has written in your blog you will be convicted of something, slander or whatever – should you never ever talk about politics again? Is there no credibility to talk about the need to combat crime in society? Is that Jonas Sjöstedt's attitude? My position, Mr President, is that when you have been convicted of a crime and served the sentence you received, you are a citizen as much worth as Jonas Sjöstedt and I. Isn't that Jonas Sjöstedt's opinion?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-314	Mr President, I would like to This question is not rhetorical. It's about your parliamentary group, Jimmie Åkesson. It is about what kind of party the Swedish Democrats are. Theft, drug crime, assault – while you gladly, often, in sweeping terms, point out large groups of Swedes, mention crime in the same breath and press on them a picture that they should be suspected. You talk about criminal gangs, but what do you see when you go to your own parliamentary group meetings? What do you see? For me, this is about credibility. Yeah, I think once you've served your sentence, you should get another chance. But this is about the Swedish Democrats as a party. Why is it with you that crime is so overrepresented? Why is that, Jimmie Åkesson, and how does it affect your credibility when you in sweeping terms accuse others of being criminals?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-316	Mr President, I would like to I'm accusing criminals of being criminals. Then I accuse Jonas Sjöstedt and his friends in the seven other parliamentary parties of not having done or doing enough to fight crime. That is what I am doing – and yes, I claim to be credible there. I claim that I am much more credible than anyone here, because I talked about this before it was as bad as it is now. I did. Jonas Sjöstedt is not credible in this. You are not credible, Jonas Sjöstedt, when you say that you deserve a second chance and so on. Some of the things you bring up happened, I think, in the '80s. Yet you stand here 20, 25, 30 years later and highlight this in the Swedish Parliament. That means you're punishing those people again. People who have served their sentence decades ago, repented, made amends and so on– you stand here today and say that they are not as good citizens as you are. I think that's really bad, Jonas Sjöstedt.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-318	Mr President, I would like to I read in a newspaper about little Selma. She's four years old. She has a severe brain malformation and can't move her arms or legs. She can't talk or eat on her own, and she's having epileptic seizures. In order to live, she needs supervision and help. She and her parents have obtained this through the assistance reform, the LSS reform, which was carried out in the 1990s on the initiative of my party. Now, major reductions in this reform are being carried out on behalf of the government. As a result, many people with disabilities today are in despair of the threats that are being put forward. But when I read the Swedish Democrats' budget, I see that you think the government's cuts are too cautious. You want to cut back a few billion more on the LSS reform in your budget option, which would have even worse effects than those that the government is now doing. My question to Jimmie Åkesson is: Why do you want to cut back on society's most vulnerable?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-322	Mr President, I would like to Jan Björklund has asked me this question before. Then I have explained that it is not so, but vice versa. I have also explained why I personally am very passionate about this. What is a fact – and that is what I mean; Stefan Löfven has the same problem as Jan Björklund here – is that you cannot read a budget line in a budget. You have to see the bigger picture. We have allowed the parliamentary investigation service to calculate what the positive economic effects would be of our immigration policy, i.e. that fewer people come to Sweden and therefore fewer people are in need of welfare. The parliamentary investigation service has calculated this and presented us with a saving in various kinds of welfare. It's not a per capita saving. This does not mean that Selma receives less personal assistance. This only means that there will be a less need for personal assistance overall because there are fewer people in Sweden who are in need of personal assistance. That is what explains this, Jan Björklund.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-326	Mr President, I would like to It is true that I have asked Jimmie Åkesson that question before. I got an equally unclear answer then. That is why I am asking the question again. That is an incomprehensible answer. These people are here in Sweden. It may be that you want to receive fewer in the future, Jimmie Åkesson. But now they are here in Sweden. And if they're gonna get that help, it's gonna cost money. Having assistants around the clock costs a lot of money. Assistance reform is a rather costly reform. Of course, that's why the government cuts it. But I mean it's worth it. This is the most vulnerable group in our society, and the increased freedom these individuals receive is worth that cost. You say that because you want to reduce immigration in the future, we will cut back on those who have this assistance now. In December, when voting here in Parliament, you pressed the button to cut back immediately. In December, you would cut back from January 1st this year. How many would you deport during that time? It wouldn't have been possible. You want to cut down on those who have help now. Do not try to blur it off by saying that it is about the future! It's here and now that you want to make big cuts to the LSS reform.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-330	Mr President, I would like to Jan Björklund must completely misunderstand. It is not in that way that there will be no people in need of personal assistance next year. Unfortunately, it will. But with our policy there will be fewer, because immigration is decreasing. That's the simple explanation. I'm not the one who's been sitting in this Chamber and counting on this. Parliament's investigation service has calculated this for us and arrived at that. Jan Björklund is talking about reductions of 2 billion, I think he said. It is for a long budget period. It's about a couple of hundred million in the first year, I think, in a business that costs tens of billions. It is therefore a good thing, a direct consequence of a more responsible policy. I agree with Jan Björklund that it is very important to safeguard personal assistance and the opportunity to get it. I think, for example, that the inquiry into, among other things, welfare gains is an important issue. Many people depend on private alternatives.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-333	Mr President, I would like to I have also looked at the Swedish Democrats' budget. Jimmie Åkesson has called for it. I have also looked at the whole picture, and I see a rather extensive scattering of taxpayers' money. We Christian Democrats see problems with people who do not enter the labour market. But we do not think it is reasonable for taxpayers to take the full cost of getting jobs. What the Swedish Democrats are proposing is expensive tax subsidies, which are unfair to other groups. In addition, as large subsidies as Jimmie Åkesson proposes to cheat. We Christian Democrats are proposing introductions that simply mean that you can be hired in companies without any hassle with bureaucracy and at 75% of the cost of starting wages. It's more efficient, it's easier and it's cheaper. In addition, it is considerably easier for companies that want to hire and enable those who want to enter the labour market to take a first step in. Why is Jimmie Åkesson not prepared to support such an order?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-337	Mr President, I would like to I honestly did not quite understand what Andreas Carlson is referring to. But my main criticism of the bourgeois government that we had for eight years is that of subsidised employment. The state therefore goes in and pays wage costs for certain groups, so that they can enter the labour market, as it is said. Among other things, it discriminates against the native part of the population. But it has also proved ineffective. That didn't lead to a lot of real jobs. It didn't get any better. Andreas Carlson and the Christian Democrats and the other bourgeois parties can change the name of these inefficient reforms and say Let's do something new. But, in fact, you don't. It's exactly the same thing. I believe in real jobs, not fake jobs.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-341	Mr President, I would like to That is why it becomes strange; the Swedish democrats are indeed closing their jobs. That's what you do, Jimmie Åkesson. But then you spend that money on other things that you do not even describe in your budget. Among other things, you are taking away employers' contributions for many years for the apprenticeships you have. You also remove the tax on income of up to SEK 12 500 per month. This means that those who take the first step into the labour market are fully subsidised by tax. You'll change your name and fix your budget. But it's not feasible. We want real jobs. We want introductory positions. Any company should be able to hire without going to Arbetsförmedlingen, without having to fill in any papers. Companies should be able to employ 75% of the cost. It gets easier, it gets cheaper and it becomes more effective. It'll be better for entrepreneurs. Above all, it is much better for those who are currently outside the labour market and are going to take the first step in. It will be much better than the jigsawing and trixing of the Swedish democrats in their budget, which is not feasible, Mr President.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-344	Mr President, I would like to I am a little surprised when I listen to the bourgeoisie here today, speaking of sweeping and confused argumentation. If I understand Andreas Carlson correctly, he therefore prefers the state to grant subsidies to companies to hire people, instead of people getting lower taxes on the first crowns they earn. I don't understand that. Because that's what I want to do. I want to lower the tax on those who earn the least. I want to lower the tax in such a way that those who earn the least should get more over in their wallet, so that they become more interested in actually taking that first job. It creates incentives. Of course, the employer is also more interested in hiring these people. That's the way to go. We should not give employers subsidies, subsidies, to hire some of the state's selected groups of people. I think that's really bad politics.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-347	Mr President, I would like to While we are standing in this Chamber debating, a gigantic iceberg, as large as Öland and Gotland together, is detaching from Antarctica. Climate change is now going tremendously much faster than previously thought. Half the Great Barrier Reef has died in the last two years because of hot ocean currents. The situation is urgent. I am surprised that many parties here are completely ignoring this question of fate. In her speeches, Anna Kinberg Batra, Jimmie Åkesson, Jan Björklund, Andreas Carlson and not even Jonas Sjöstedt mentioned the climate issue. I am even more surprised by the alliance parties' draft budget. All alliance parties and the Swedish Democrats want to cut the environmental budget by at least 25 per cent. With this policy, many solar cells, cycle paths and charging poles for electric cars disappear. All alliance parties and the Swedish Democrats also want to let flights avoid paying their climate costs. While some are also opposed to high-speed investments. While the poles are melting, there are two parties here in Parliament, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, who even want to make it cheaper to release fossil fuels. It is clear what climate policy we will see with a blue-brown touch at government power. Mr President, I would like to There is a single party in Sweden that prioritises the climate issue. It's the Green Party.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-353	Mr President, I would like to In 2016, emissions increased in Sweden, according to Statistics Sweden. It's a receipt of the Green Party's policy. During the alliance government, emissions dropped constantly. Raising taxes seems to be the only thing the Green Party is interested in, not the effect they have. The environmental party's air tax reduces emissions by as much as the Swedish people's gardening machines emit. When ice melts, effective measures are needed, not symbolic policies. The Center Party has presented an alternative to the Green Party's inefficient aviation tax. We want to see a obligation, a compulsory involvement of renewable biofuels for all flights that take off from Swedish airports. Apparently, the Green Party is going to quickly investigate this very thing. That message came this morning. Our proposal, which I presented yesterday, is obviously stressful for the government and the Green Party. Now the Green Party thinks that the Center Party's proposal is good. Why, then, are you holding on to an inefficient flight tax that does not do enough for the climate, Isabella Lövin? Why are you sticking to symbolic measures and not proper environmental results?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-357	Mr President, I would like to We in the Green Party have been implementing for two and a half years in government what you failed to achieve for eight years in the alliance government. We have achieved a change of fuel to increase the involvement of renewables in petrol and diesel. We have put forward proposals for a climate law that will ensure that emissions are reduced. We have increased the climate budget by almost 82%. We will scrap allowances and not sell them to investment banks as you did in your time. These are real emission reductions. But the question to you, Annie Lööf, is: If you are in a bourgeois government with the support of the Swedish Democrats, how will you get your environmental policy through during the next term when you failed to do so for eight years in a bourgeois government?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-359	Mr President, I would like to I will not be in an alliance government with the support of the Swedish Democrats. The receipt from the alliance government's eight years with the Center Party at the Ministry of the Environment is a brilliant environmental and climate work. We could have done more, but we can see that wind power grew tenfold. The environmental cars on our streets became many more. We were the best in the EU at the share of renewable energy in the electricity sector. We started a lot of the work that you have now continued to do. We also support many of the results-oriented proposals that the Green Party has made. But there are still some things to be done. You're investing in inefficient climate taxes when the ice melts. We need strong proposals. Emissions, Isabella Lövin, are now increasing with the Green Party in the government. What responsibility does Isabella Lövin have as climate minister and as spokesperson for the Green Party for the fact that emissions, according to Statistics Sweden, are now increasing in Sweden with the Green Party in the government?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-362	Mr President, I would like to After you left 4 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent in a deficit that you did not intend to fix with national funds, you were going to buy emission allowance reductions abroad instead of taking national measures. We have narrowed that gap, and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has noted that. We are about to meet our commitment to our emission reductions with national policies. You didn't have a policy for that. It was empty in the desk drawers at the Department of the Environment when we entered. Strong reforms are now needed. We must look at all areas of emissions, not least in the transport sector, in order to reduce emissions. It is therefore remarkable that you are opposed to a moderate flight tax. You dismissed it even before the investigation was completed – 80 SEK per trip within Sweden. Air transport must also pay its rightful costs for emissions when all other modes of transport do so. We will also investigate a reduction obligation for flights, and we will be happy to cooperate with you on this.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-365	Mr President, I would like to Isabella Lövin! We have a shortage of drinking water in a large part of Sweden today. We have taken clean water as a matter of course, which it is not. With severe climate change, these kinds of problems are at risk of becoming bigger in the future. Lake Vättern is Sweden's most important source of clean drinking water. In the future, it may also be able to support Mälardalen. But the liquid is under threat. One of the most concrete threats is the demand for ever greater military exercises, when grenades are literally fired with heavy metals and environmental toxins into the lake. You can stop this. The question will be on your table and the government's table soon. You can decide, yes or no. Will drinking water and Vättern come first, or does the military's comfort come first? There are other training areas. What will you do? Aren't you going to put the environment and the Vättern before the military exercises?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-368	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Jonas Sjöstedt is also concerned about climate change and addresses them in this debate. Drinking water is now at extremely low levels in all of Sweden's 290 municipalities, except in 14 municipalities. It's never happened before. It is a sign of how clearly climate change affects us in Sweden here and now. This is not something that will affect other countries in the future, but is about Sweden. We are now looking at how to strengthen the ability of municipalities and regions to protect and conserve drinking water. The liquid is, of course, a very important source of drinking water. We in the Green Party naturally want to protect that drinking water and give priority to that issue. For the future of our children's and grandchildren, this is far more important than for the military to practice there.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-371	Mr President, I would like to I want to thank you for that answer. I think that was a good and clear answer. I understand that you as the spokesperson of the Green Party clearly take a stand for the Water of the Vättern against the extended shooting exercises and the flying exercises over the Lake Vättern. It'll probably be needed in the government in the future. If you destroy the clean water that we have, you will also destroy the prerequisites for water supply for a very long time to come. You have an ally in the Left Party in the important environmental battle ahead of us, not to allow heavy metals and environmental toxins to be evicted in one of Sweden's most important sources of clean water. I hope that together we can win that battle.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-374	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jonas Sjöstedt! We are happy to accept the stretched hand. I also hope that more parties in this Parliament will recognise the need to protect what is absolutely vital for both this generation and future generations. We must do much more to ensure that emissions from agriculture, from industries and from all kinds of activities do not harm what is most important to us, namely groundwater. I am very concerned that traces of chemicals and different types of substances are being found there. Another issue that I can take this opportunity to mention and which is incredibly important is the discharge into the oceans where plastic litter and microplastics are a major problem. The government is reviewing it and now wants to ban microplastics in cosmetics. We will also look at how to reduce emissions from car traffic and what flows into the stormwater.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-376	Mr President, I would like to In this type of debate we do not usually give each other much praise, and I find that a bit boring. I would like to thank Isabella Lövin for the fact that the Green Party has put aside some ideological blind spots. Last week, we made a terrorist agreement to raise the level of preparedness to combat terrorism. The Green Party has previously been the party in this House with the greatest and most unrealistic dreams. But government ownership seems to have had a moderate effect. The terrorist agreement states that the police will have better access to camera surveillance. I would like to ask Isabella Lövin whether the Green Party has released ideological resistance to surveillance. Do you agree that the police should be able to set up cameras in places where, for example, there is a higher risk of terrorist attacks or other crime? Do you agree that the police should be able to set up cameras without permission? Yes or no, Isabella Lövin?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-378	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for your kind words. I appreciate that we can have that kind of tone of voice here in Parliament too. As far as the fight against terrorism is concerned, of course, I and the Green Party share the concerns of the entire Swedish people that completely innocent people may be affected by completely senseless and horrendous attacks. We are prepared to see what we can do to prevent such attacks from hitting us citizens. The terrorist agreement that we have now entered into with the opposition parties we stand up for. Of course, supervision must be proportionate in terms of violation of personal integrity. But when the police and the authorities consider that monitoring is reasonable, we are behind it.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-381	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the clarity. Then I take it that the Green Party is in favour of the police being able to set up cameras without a permit if it is judged appropriate in view of the risk of terrorist attacks or other types of criminal activity. This week we saw that the cameras in Rinkeby had made the population feel calmer, but there it took three years for the police to get cameras in place in view of complicated condition processes and legal proceedings. Then the question is: are you in the Green Party prepared to support the police setting up cameras where it is deemed appropriate and to report it afterwards? The licence requirement is therefore removed, and the police are allowed to set up cameras and then they have a notification obligation in the same way as SL has exceptions to the camera surveillance law. So you're prepared to grant that exception to the police authorities as well?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-384	Mr President, I would like to Legal certainty and the principles of the rule of law are extremely important. In this particular case, we must, of course, weigh personal integrity and the rule of law against the powers of the police. We are prepared to see what is proportionate to the threat we also face. I cannot give a straight answer to the question, because I am not familiar with the terrorist agreement at a detailed level. However, we support the principle that people should be able to feel safe and that we must be able to use proportionate methods for this.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-386	Mr President, I would like to We need to stick together Sweden. We need to prevent division and reduce the social and regional divide that is now growing. The big issue in this debate is much about how to get money for school, health care and for infrastructure and investment. That's what we get from more people working. The insight must be that all jobs are needed. By reducing taxes on jobs and businesses, more people will get into work, integration will improve and we will get more tax crowns that can be invested in school, health care and care. It is important that the Social Democrats also recognise this important connection for the upcoming election movement: Lower costs on jobs and companies provide more tax crowns to invest in a good welfare of high quality. For over two hours we have now debated in Parliament. Apart from my question to Stefan Löfven, no one from the red-green team has highlighted the importance of more companies and a good business climate. I'm worried about that. So far, economic activity has done more for jobs than Stefan Löfven has done. It is in small and medium-sized enterprises that jobs are emerging. It is companies that make sure that the wheels of the economy spin. They are the ones who create the jobs, which then lead to the tax chandeliers that we can invest in a good school, care and care. The Social Democrats seem to want to invest in anything but jobs and entrepreneurship. It's sad. So far, the government has increased the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship by over 30 billion. For Stefan Löfven it is fortunate that we are in a boom. But when the economic cycle then turns downwards, companies will be less equipped, jobs will be fewer and Sweden will be less equipped. It is now in a boom that structural reforms are needed for more people to get jobs. In order for more people in a vulnerable position to have the opportunity to move from low contributions to higher income, it is important that we have a job-friendly policy that prevents the split of Sweden and that invests in job creation, entrepreneurship and work.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-393	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a difficult parliamentary situation, and there is a great deal to suggest that we get it even after 2018. The people will first say theirs next autumn. We are not going to stand in this Chamber and distribute seats of government. However, there is one principle that is extremely important. Sweden now has in its parliament a party that has Nazi roots and is racist. It places extra demands on the responsibility of the democratic parties in the same House. I have always said that, for my part, the solution is to take responsibility for crossing the block line. This is also the solution for dealing with a difficult situation. Annie Lööf and the Center have been equally clear. They do not want any cooperation with the Swedish Democrats and do not want to form a government with their support. It is a straight message, and it also seems to have given a response to the vote. If no side of the traditional blocs gets a majority in the elections, I wonder whether Annie Lööf is open to cross-block cooperation on government issues, in budgetary work or whatever.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-396	Mr President, I would like to I am, of course, aiming to replace Stefan Löfven and that Anna Kinberg Batra will become Sweden's next Prime Minister in an alliance government. I have also said that if an alliance government needs more support, that is, if we do not have our own majority, we are also prepared to seek support across the block. As Stefan Löfven speaks so warmly about cross-block cooperation and talks, I assume that he and the Social Democrats could then support an alliance government.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-398	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I think Annie Lööf should support a prime minister who is lucky. First of all, I think so. Don't take someone who's unlucky, but take someone who's lucky! We will, of course, be looking for all the possibilities for cross-border cooperation. But that's the next step. However, the principle is important now. So there will never be any cooperation with the Swedish Democrats? And you will not form a government with the support of the Swedish Democrats? In that case, I've got Annie Lööf right, and it's important that I do.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-400	Mr President, I would like to Yes, that's correct. I feel that I have been very clear on this point. The Center Party is seeking support for a new Prime Minister and an alliance government. We want to replace Stefan Löfven with Anna Kinberg Batra. If an alliance government needs increased support, the Center Party does not want to take it from the Swedish Democrats, but in that case we are looking for cross-block talks. Let's see what's going on. I want to hold the Alliance together after the next election. It is not just the government issue that is important. It is also about being able to steer Sweden responsibly forward. We must then be able to reach agreement across the block, as we have done under both the alliance government and the current government on issues such as defence, energy and migration. Of course, we must continue under an alliance government.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-402	Mr President, I would like to Annie Lööf leads a party that likes to call herself green. This is basically good, because Sweden needs more parties than the Green Party who want to highlight the environmental issue. Yet Annie Lööf wants to cooperate with the Moderates and make Anna Kinberg Batra Prime Minister. I find that odd. The Moderates want to lower the fuel tax and make it cheaper to release. They say no to high-speed trains. And they want to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats who hardly even seem to believe that climate change is real. How come you would rather cooperate with parties that ignore the climate, Annie Lööf, than build a middle collaboration with parties that want to make Sweden greener and where we can actually achieve results together? I find this very difficult to understand. I also believe that the voters do. Please explain this to me!
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-405	Mr President, I would like to For eight years, Sweden had a Center Party Minister for the Environment in an alliance government that carried out many environmental and climate reforms, dressed the leadership shirt for a global work and carried out an enormous number of reforms that led to clear results. The renewable grew explosively. Wind electricity increased, solar energy increased, environmental cars increased and renewable fuels in the transport sector tripled. We did this together in the Alliance. I want to hear how you view your years in power, Isabella Lövin. You have betrayed your soul as far as coal power is concerned. You have introduced taxes on solar electricity, which you are now trying to remove. You have increased the tax on biofuels. In a number of different areas, you are going contrary to what the Green Party has been pushing. I want an offensive environmental and climate agenda that leads to results. That is why I have proposed that we increase the share of renewables in the fuel tank on aircraft. It would provide a proper climate benefit. In this way, the Center Party will continue to pursue its environmental and climate policy in order to achieve results.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-408	Mr President, I would like to Solar power installations have increased by 100 percent in just the last six months. Charging points for electric cars have increased by almost 400 per cent since we took office. We are now implementing a comprehensive climate policy. We are ranked highest in Europe among all 28 EU Member States. In addition, we have got through the things that you did not get through during eight years of alliance rule: bonus-malus systems, fuel replacement for cars, fast expansion of charging poles and solar cells and stopping uranium mining. The fact that emissions are not being reduced now has to do with you not making these radical reforms. We must have a clear and clear objective of reducing emissions. You failed to set a target beyond 2020. Yet you left behind a 4 million-tonne emission gap. We are now addressing this. I would like to ask once again why Annie Lööf is opting out of the opportunity to work with us and get through an offensive climate policy.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-411	Mr President, I would like to Emissions are increasing now. During the time of the alliance government, we had many positive results on the environmental and climate side. I'd like to continue with that. What is also interesting and important in this context is that the environment, climate and energy are cross-block issues. We have reached an agreement in the Environmental Objectives Committee. We have agreed in an energy agreement across the block border with many parties. That is how it should be in environmental and climate policy. We will come up with the reforms that are producing results. Regardless of which government governs, we must have the best interests of the climate in mind. This is what the Center Party will continue to work on. In addition to working with the environment and climate, it is also important to have an offensive agenda for jobs and innovative entrepreneurship. I can see that the other alliance parties have. We want to continue work on jobs and growth, but also ensure that it leads to good results and innovative ideas for a better climate and better renewable energy. We are happy to continue to cooperate across the block line, but a new alliance government would kick-start environmental and climate work.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-414	Mr President, I would like to Annie Lööf! A strong and functioning welfare creates equality and security in a society. One of the foundations of the publicly funded healthcare system in Sweden is that it should be distributed as needed. It's the one who has the most pain to get in first. It is the one who has the greatest need to get the most help. It is not a matter of course, given how it works in other parts of the world. In many countries, it is the largest wallet in the world that receives the best medical care. Last week we voted on exactly this in Parliament. It is the needs that should govern, and no one should be able to go ahead because you have a private health insurance. You voted no. You voted in favour of a bourgeois policy that says that we should not clearly write in that no one should go ahead and that the needs should govern. Do you not agree with the basic principle that public health care should be allocated as needed, Annie Lööf?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-416	Mr President, I would like to Well, cash or contacts should not govern access to welfare and care. That is why we in Sweden have a jointly funded welfare. That's also why I'm fighting for a patient or vulnerable person to have the opportunity to choose their option. Especially when you are most exposed, you need to be able to choose between different performers. It is a fundamental for me to combine this with tax-funded welfare, without cream files. We will ensure that those who need care receive it. I want to shorten the care queues and increase accessibility. I have proposed a series of reforms to strengthen primary care and, for example, short queues in specialist care, which is incredibly important.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-417	Mr President, I would like to We agree on the need for good medical care, Annie Lööf. We do not agree on profits in welfare, which we have debated many times. But that's not what my question was about. It was about how you and you voted in this House last week. We wanted to write in that whoever has private health insurance should not be allowed to go ahead. You voted it down together with the Swedish Democrats. If I remember correctly, it was we, the Social Democrats and the Green Party who wanted to establish this important principle. Many people today are warning that health care is becoming less equal and that the development towards private insurance means that those with the greatest need are pushed out and that in practice others take precedence over gender, not least due to staff shortages and other things. I can't make this go together. You say that you are in favour of healthcare being allocated as needed, but do not vote like that in this House.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-419	Mr President, I would like to That's actually not how it works, Jonas Sjöstedt. I think it is a good thing that there are private health insurance policies. This often means a shorter sick leave and a shorter sick leave process, allowing employers, whether public or private, to get their employees back quickly. You don't push anyone out in that situation, it's about plugging gaps. What I see as the major problem now is not the sale of hospitals, which you have also mentioned as a straw doll, but reduced accessibility, dramatically increased care queues and the regional difference between red-green and alliance-led county councils. We must have equal care. We must have the possibility of equal access to care and shorter care queues throughout the country. The Center Party has put forward proposals for proximity and accessibility in healthcare.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-421	Mr President, I would like to In my main speech I talked about inequality in Sweden, about the big class differences and how they affect our society and how major societal challenges such as crime, climate problems and unequal education and health are affected by the economic class divides. It's possible to do something about this. We can correct this by political means. But only the labour movement can do that. Today, in Sweden's parliament, only the Left Party has an economic policy that would increase equality in Sweden. Some of it we can get through in negotiations with the government. We have made significant investments in welfare. In particular, we have ensured the implementation of reforms that will benefit single parents and low-retirement pensioners. If there's anything else, we don't agree. As soon as we say that the absolutely richest will contribute more, that those who withdraw will pay more, this government says no. This is why class divisions do not decrease in Sweden. Only left-wing politics can solve it. We are also facing major challenges for the future. Technological developments can increase social gaps. We are faced with a wave of digitalisation and automation that will fundamentally change Swedish working life. It is necessary to maintain productivity and competitiveness, but it can also affect many people if we do not manage it properly. A shortening of normal working hours is the obvious answer to a working life that is rapidly transformed and where many people will see their old jobs disappear. It is so much more reasonable that we share the necessary work and that everyone contributes than that some work far too hard and that others work too little and thus also have a worse economy. A reduction in working hours is the future.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-424	Mr President, I would like to I want to address integration and the question of how newcomers who have arrived in Sweden can get jobs and self-sufficiency and be able to contribute to the common welfare. High entry wages shut people out. Nevertheless, the Left Party wants to build even higher walls. Sjöstedt says no to radical reforms in the labour market, no to more simple jobs and no to a lower starting salary for newcomers in order for them to get jobs and self-sufficiency more quickly instead of having to live on low subsidies. With the policy of the Left Party, a new social lower class is in danger of emerging. Jonas Sjöstedt initially talked about a class society. I thought it was the kind of man Jonas Sjöstedt burned to fight. New social classes are now being created in our country. I would therefore like to ask Jonas Sjöstedt: does he still want to lock people into exclusion and unemployment, or can he abandon his rhetoric and show real solidarity with the new people who have come to our country, so that they can go from low subsidies to a salary on which they can live?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-427	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish bourgeoisie is obsessed with the idea that the solution should be to subsidise simple jobs. Which countries in Europe have the greatest share of simple jobs? It is Macedonia and Turkey. Who has the least share of simple jobs? It is Sweden, Switzerland and Norway. Which way do we go? Which model of society do we choose? Is there a link between simple jobs and low unemployment? Possibly there is an opposite connection. You are simply wrong. We have a great shortage of labour in Sweden. The solution to this is not to subsidise jobs that are not in demand, but to educate people, so that they can take the jobs where they cannot get people today. But you never talk about this. We need more education, so that people can take the jobs that exist, and you have to learn Swedish from the first day of the asylum camp, something that you removed during the alliance years. I simply mean that reality shows that a large proportion of simple jobs is not a sign of a mature and developed economy. On the other hand, high levels of education and matching work well in the real world.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-431	Mr President, I would like to Let me mention, for example, Denmark and Germany, which have a higher proportion of easier jobs than Sweden has. Simpler jobs do not need to be easy to do in practice; they are jobs that do not require an educational background. Education is incredibly important. There is no political conflict there. But it takes more than putting out the school bench for newcomers to get a job. Many of those who come to our country have no school background or little school background and no professional experience. It is important that they are not locked up in exclusion, low benefits and vulnerability, but that they get the chance to get in through apprenticeships, by learning at work, by getting into the heat and getting both pension points and self-sufficiency. We cannot continue along this path of trench wars, but we must find constructive ways to fill the toolbox with so that these people, many of whom live in our suburbs, can get a job. Then it is good with, for example, what LO has now highlighted with educational jobs and lower entry wages initially. What does Jonas Sjöstedt think about LO's proposal?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-434	Mr President, I would like to There is a need for different forms of programmes that combine education and work. It is part of the solution for getting people into the labour market. But I don't believe in lower wages. There is no lowering of the wages of any people. That's how you sink for everyone. That's how wage formation works in practice. You always want to lower the wages of those who already earn the least. I want you to be able to live on your job. Even the assistant nurse, taxi driver and newspaper clerk should be able to make money so that they can support themselves and their family. If wages are reduced by 25%, as some of the alliance parties are talking about, people can no longer live on their wages. Give people education. Give them a chance. Give them the opportunity to enter the labour market. You've tried the tax subsidy route. It failed with a magplasm during the last parliamentary term. It's time to try the training route. I believe more in Norway and Switzerland than in Macedonia and Turkey as Sweden's role models.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-437	Mr President, I would like to I want to talk about welfare. One of the most important aspects of welfare is health care. One of the most important parts of healthcare is that care is there when sick people need care. Since 2014, healthcare queues in Sweden have started to grow again. They are farthest in the county councils controlled by the red-green parties. It is in the county councils where the Alliance governs that the care queues are at their shortest. It is in Stockholm and Halland where the Alliance has been in charge for a long time that you can get to doctors and specialist doctors the fastest. I really have a simple question for Jonas Sjöstedt, who talks so much about welfare. Why have the care queues in Sweden increased since 2014, and why are they the worst and longest in red-green county councils?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-440	Mr President, I would like to I believe that for a long time, long before the Green Party and the Social Democrats came into government, we have invested too little in Swedish health care. We have seen too few care places internationally. They need to be more. Medical care needs to cost more. It is very difficult to combine with the major tax cuts that the bourgeois parties want to see and prioritise. I also believe that we have treated staff too badly. It's part of a structural injustice. They are women-dominated professions, too low pay and too poor working conditions. The solution to that is the proposal that we got through and presented the other day. It is a major effort on their working conditions. It is to see that shorter working hours with retained pay can mean that people are able to cope, want and can continue. It is to provide paid specialist training for, for example, Sweden's nurses. This is the result of concrete measures of this kind, and not of simple rhetoric, which solves the health crisis in Sweden. I think Jan Björklund should think about that.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-444	Mr President, I would like to I think those who listened heard that I asked the question why alliance-led county councils are so much better at care queues than red-green. Jonas Sjöstedt then read the Left Party's party programme, but that is not what I asked about. Why is it that alliance-led county councils have shorter care queues than the red-green ones? Where the Left Party is sitting there are the longest care queues of all county councils. If it is the program that you are now talking about that is the solution, why do you not do it? The truth is that where the Alliance runs, the care queues are shorter. One important reason for this is that we allow private alternatives to complement county health care. Then there are more doctors, and the queues get shorter. It's not that extraordinary. If there are more hospitals and more health centres there will be shorter queues. It's very simple. Everyone understands that. But for you, it is more important to stop private alternatives than to force people to stand in line.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-448	Mr President, I would like to It is a risky argument to argue that the alliance-led landpath is so well managed. See how it is in Stockholm. New Karolinska, the Alliance's own Versailles, has cost so much to implement but does not work so well. Let's see how the care choices are incredible money lukers. However, this does not always lead to a higher quality of care, but often to a more unequal treatment. I think care should be allocated as needed. The money should go to patients and staff and not to private profits. We can also see how the private at times withdraw because they do not earn enough money in the model advocated by the Liberals. I've heard about mothers who were going to have babies and enrolled in BB Sophia. It closed down because there wasn't enough profit. Chains with health care centers close down and notify their patients on Facebook: Sorry, your health care center has disappeared. We cannot have healthcare in Sweden that way. We need to invest more not least in staff working conditions. But we're not supposed to have a kind of wild west with privatizations in health care.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-451	Mr President, I would like to Recently SVT reported that the police finally managed to create peace in the Bishop's farm in Gothenburg. The city has been ravaged by criminal gangs, but now security is starting to come back. People who have considered moving now want to stay. But the police are under a lot of strain. When criminals are pushed back into one place, they regroup to another. While Biskopsgården has now calmed down, the police point out Tynnered on the other side of Gothenburg as a new one in eight particularly vulnerable areas. The police will have to give priority to their efforts there and now warn that a vacuum will occur in Bishopsgården. That is why it is so important that the police presence is permanent in our particularly vulnerable areas and that the police have strong resources to be able to work long-term and preventive. That is why we want to see 10 000 more police officers throughout Sweden. What do Jonas Sjöstedt's solutions look like to the problems I have described?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-455	Mr President, I would like to I think it must be recognised that the problem is much more serious than that and that the solutions you are proposing are not enough. More police officers are good and necessary, not least district and local police officers who have great confidence locally. To that end, we need drop-outs. Today it is often temporary and underfunded. There is a need for a prison service that works better when it comes to the lockout. Today it's a sad child. Many young criminals return immediately in crime. We need a stronger social service that points out young people at risk. We need cooperation between Kronofogden, the Swedish Tax Agency, municipalities and police. Only such a comprehensive policy can seriously and in the long term reverse crime. If it is combined with social justice, future opportunities, education and work, we can succeed. Therefore, your argumentation is so superficial, and therefore it is unable to solve the profound problems we face.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-459	Mr President, I would like to The budget supported and supported by Jonas Sjöstedt has reduced the number of police officers three years in a row. The police need a substantial reinforcement – not long after the next election, but a powerful reinforcement quickly. There are more police officers who are building the basis for social interventions in vulnerable areas. There is a need for school order, clearer support for vulnerable families, more social secretaries and a stronger civil society. It's the police who guarantee their safety. How are social interventions to work when ambulances face a stone's throw and when social secretaries are threatened with murder? How will teachers feel safe? How can the business community function, Jonas Sjöstedt, when Ica dealers say that the state has abdicated and criminals can steal what they want without the police having the opportunity to intervene because they are so hard pressed?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-462	Mr President, I would like to There is a risk of pre-written lines. It is that one does not take into account what the person has said in his previous reply. I said several of the things you then repeated in your own line. I think we need more cops. We'll bet more on the police than you did during your reign. We are prepared to continue this effort because it is needed. The police have a difficult and important job. It also needs a really good education. If we are to have police officers who stay long, who can have a good wage development and who have different career opportunities, police training must become a three-year university education. That should have happened a long time ago. The Police Association has repeatedly highlighted it. I hope we can finally get it done despite the bourgeois resistance. It's time to bet on the police for real.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-466	Mr President, I would like to We hear the Prime Minister say that the Swedish economy and the European economy are doing well. But that's not for everyone. Many people do not notice that Sweden and Europe are doing well. In the midst of the boom, we see that unemployment is increasing for those born abroad, that the care queues are increasing and that gang crime is increasing. I do not blame the Prime Minister and the government for the development of society. It's there regardless of government. I blame you for not having any ideas on how to solve it. I'm worried about that. It risks dividing and splitting Sweden. It is about those who live in freedom of movement having the same opportunity to live in freedom as the rest of us. The children will grow in school. The children who have come to our country will have the same chance to have a foundation for the future as they grow up. The adults who come here will have the chance to contribute and to support themselves. That calls for reforms, Prime Minister. Reforms of the labour market are needed so that we also release simpler jobs. I am in favour of offering education to anyone who comes with a low level of education, but not all the adults who come here will be able to sit down on the school bench. It won't work that way. We need extended schooling for newly arrived students who come here in their teens, but that is something that the government says no to. We need private actors in welfare that complement public actors and allow care queues to be shortened. We need more cops, and to get it, we need to raise wages, or else we won't get any more cops. None of this is what the government wants. You say no, no and no to these solutions, and you do not have any other solutions. The government is tired, and in practice you have surrendered to these problems. You are commending yourself for the boom, and it is gratifying that we are in a boom, but it is not to your credit. You have no action to solve the real problems. We long for the 2018 election when Sweden can get a new government.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-471	Mr President, I would like to The construction of the community is under way. The investments have started in Sweden. That is why we have 200 000 more jobs now than when we took office, and that is why unemployment is falling. We need to do much more because unemployment is too high. Another important aspect of our policy is European policy. In these troubled times, we must ensure that European cooperation is now strengthened. The EU must show that this is not just economic and trade cooperation. It is important in itself, but it is also cooperation that will lead to a better everyday life for the people of the Member States. Then we should give priority to a more social Europe and ensure that it also stays together. I am therefore pleased that the Liberals are so clear and that they are in favour of a social pillar in the European Union, too, as the Commission has proposed. These issues will be at the heart of the Gothenburg Summit this autumn, and I hope that we can work together on such issues in order to move Europe forward towards becoming a more socially responsible Europe.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-474	Mr President, I would like to Europe needs more cooperation. There is no doubt about that. No less cooperation and more red cards are needed, but more cooperation is needed. We have major common challenges, such as asylum and refugee policy. We have great differences in economic standards within the European Union. Freedom of movement leads us to get beggars to Sweden because Romania and Bulgaria deny their citizens social rights. I strongly support the fact that we should also have minimum social standards in Europe, but at the end of the day it is every country that decides how to design its welfare systems. Stefan Löfven tried to talk about something else, but in reality our own challenge is that we get many low-skilled immigrants to Sweden while at the same time creating a labour market in Sweden that is actually based on everyone taking a matriculation examination to get a job. That doesn't make any sense. Even if you can educate some you are now leaving very many in exclusion. We have a great growth in the Western world right now; it is an economic boom. Yet unemployment for the low-skilled is increasing, and that is not solved by European cooperation, but we have to solve it ourselves.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-477	Mr President, I would like to It is a good thing that we continue to work together on European cooperation. These differences exist between countries and will last for a long time. It is up to each Member State to decide on its welfare systems. Nothing else is the idea either. This must look at what we are doing right in Europe to make it good, and what we are doing right in Sweden. In Sweden it is of course that people should have jobs. If you can work, you should work. It doesn't matter if you have a high level of education or a low level of education. The vast majority of those with low education are young people who have come here, and they should have training to become strong individuals for the rest of their professional lives. We should not have a low-wage sector for them. On the other hand, we should make it possible for those who need it to have easier ways into work. Therefore, I think that we should all be able to support, for example, LO's proposals and see if the parties can come up with a solution that will provide a simpler way into work so that later on they can enter into a job with a decent salary and decent conditions.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-480	Mr President, I would like to Seriously, the crisis is bigger than LO wants to admit. I understand that it is the LO model that Stefan Löfven wants to implement, but you must understand that if you always see yourself as representatives of a special interest in the government, you will not solve the general problems. LO is an organisation that naturally protects the interests of its members. It's nothing strange; all organizations do. It's just that the low-skilled immigrants who come here and don't yet have a job aren't in LO. Neither Karl-Petter-Petter Thorwaldsson and LO nor Stefan Löfven, when he was chairman of his time, have the task of protecting the interests of those who are not in the union. Your job is to protect the interests of the union members. If we leave power to LO, it is clear that those who already have a job and are members will be happy, but we also get a big alienation. There's nothing strange about that. That's how all organizations work. Our responsibility, Stefan Löfven – yours and mine and everyone else's in here – is a little bigger than LO's responsibility. We will take responsibility for the whole of Sweden and not just for those who are members of LO.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-484	Mr President, I would like to When we debated last October, Jan Björklund, I asked about the third reactor at the Finnish Olkiluoto nuclear power plant, which was to be built in 2005, which was due to be completed in 2010 but had been significantly delayed. Now it turns out that this new nuclear power plant is not yet ready. It should not be completed until 2018 at the earliest and will therefore be at least eight years late. In fact, it is faster for a sloth to crawl to Australia and back than for Finland to build its new nuclear power plant – and then it can still rest four months in Kuala Lumpur. If you had invested in renewables, you would have gained more energy at a lower price and in a shorter time. The estimated cost was EUR 3 billion, but it is likely to land at EUR 9 billion. My question is: When are you going to wake up and stop dreaming about nuclear power, Jan Björklund?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-488	Mr President, I would like to I congratulate the mouthpiece on the rhetoric. What do you get all this from? As far as Finland is concerned, it is true that this reactor is late and expensive. An important reason for this is that the West has not built new reactors in 30 to 40 years, and now they are building with a completely new technology that is much safer, and they guard themselves time and again. What is interesting is that Finland has nevertheless decided to build another reactor. So they do not think that this is a failure. They think it is more expensive and late, but it will be the safest in the world once it is there. It will supply electricity that will be enough for Sweden to import when it does not blow, I promise.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-491	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say that this new reactor is in dispute in Finland. I am pleased that we in Sweden have five parties behind the goal of creating a completely new renewable electricity system by 2040. Recent figures show that the installation of solar power has doubled in just six months, and we now know that four nuclear reactors will be decommissioned by 2020. The only one who's sad about it is Jan Björklund. When the energy agreement was concluded, Jan Björklund wrote on Twitter: Congratulations on the Green Party! We thank you for that, but it is really the whole of Sweden that benefits from this. It is the environment, jobs and future generations, and it will also be much better for taxpayers to avoid subsidising expensive nuclear power. The final disposal of nuclear fuel is 100,000 years. This is certainly not a legacy we should leave behind for our children.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-493	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the paper has been written between the parties, but so far the agreement has not been implemented. All those reactors still supply electricity. The problem will come when we draw subsidies into offshore wind power that you want. It is so unprofitable that even the Nuon affair appears to be a cash cow. The long-term responsibility for Swedish energy supply will be decided in a number of years, but the most important thing for us is that we get rid of carbon dioxide emissions. Then renewables play a major and important role – it already does, and it will play an even greater role – but nuclear energy also plays a role. The UN Panel on Climate Change agrees that nuclear power will also play a role in the future, and for your part you will land in shutting down Swedish nuclear power and will replace it only with renewable energy, we will become dependent on importing electricity, and then it will well be Russian gas, gas from Norway or nuclear power from Finland.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-496	Mr President, I would like to Jan Björklund is perhaps the most enthusiastic supporter of the parliament. I share Jan Björklund's deep concern about developments in Russia. Russia has an authoritarian, nationalistic, aggressive regime, which has occupied parts of neighbouring countries and a policy of destabilisation. In Russia, opponents are arrested who go out and demonstrate on the streets. The media are not free, and the elections are hardly free. There I agree with Jan Björklund. But all this can be said about Putin Russia, one of the most important NATO members, Erdo中an's Turkey: aggressively against the outside world, imprisoning the opposition, troops in other countries. Could Jan Björklund mention any area where Erdo中an is better than Putin? What is the difference between these two? Are you going to enter a military alliance with someone as bad as the one you fear?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-498	Mr President, I would like to There is surely a very important difference between Russia and Turkey for Swedish security policy. Russia is a real threat in our neighbourhood; it is probably not quite possible to say about Turkey. Surely that is the crucial difference. For my part, I would like to see Turkey not being in NATO, but now they are. However, the fact that we are to be part of NATO has nothing to do with Turkey. It has to do with the fact that if we are attacked or threatened with attack, we should be able to get support from the great Western democracies, where the military force is: Britain and the United States, mainly. This is what we are talking about. This has been done by the Norwegians. Denmark has done so, and the whole of Eastern Europe, which was formerly communist, has now joined NATO because it wants that protection – not because it is in solidarity with Erdo中an. I hope most people are very critical of him; that's me. But it is a matter of protection for the Swedish part. It is in our own interest to be protected. Ask the Balts, Jonas Sjöstedt! They're scared shitless of Putin, seriously. They are part of NATO, and they are glad that they had time to join before Putin came to power and started their rearmament.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-502	Mr President, I would like to Many words – get answers. After all, the question was how Erdo中an would differ from Putin in terms of valuation. You usually argue for NATO membership that it's about values. But if someone in NATO is the same as Putin, does it not matter if it's a valuation choice? And what's a military alliance? What is Article 5 of NATO? It also means that if Turkey was attacked, Sweden as a NATO member would defend Turkey and Erdo That's what's a military alliance. Why do you want mutual defence obligations with an authoritarian regime, which oppresses minorities, crushes the free media, imprisons parliamentarians, has troops in other countries and, in fact, has facilitated a terrorist group such as the IS, through its very poor behaviour in neighbouring countries? Is that the kind of ally you want to see, Jan Björklund?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-504	Mr President, I would like to NATO is the Western Alliance of Defense. Its purpose is to defend the Western social system. The Turks entered there during the Cold War because of their geographical location; I would like to see them not present. But Sweden is not even in NATO, so we cannot have views on who is in or who is not. But for the Swedish part, it is about joining in order for our own security and freedom and our own independence to increase. Ukraine has now taken a decision to send an application for membership to NATO. But of course you can't take out fire insurance when the house is already on fire. The Ukrainians very much regret that they did not apply for membership before the Russians attacked. The Baltics thank their god that they had time to apply before Putin started his military armament. I know that Jonas Sjöstedt thinks we should not do this, and it is really a lot about anti-Americanism. Of course you can stand and talk about Turkey, but basically it is anti-Americanism that you are doing. That is what underpins your approach to NATO. For our part, NATO is a military security alliance, but it is also an alliance for the free countries of the Western world.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-508	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by quoting Anders Thoré, an expert on pensions from PRO. We want equal tax on pensions and salaries. KD is the party that takes the biggest step and evens out the difference. That's what he recently said to Expressen. At the end of the debate, I can see that the issue of pensions is not particularly acute among the other parties. This is something we Christian Democrats regret – the elderly deserve our respect, and every pensioner should receive a decent pension. During the reign of the Alliance, the tax on pensioners was reduced five times. The aim of the Christian Democrats has always been to remove the tax gap between employees and pensioners, and now we are removing the so-called pensioner tax. Mr President, I would like to I would like to quote one more person: Jonas Sjöstedt, in fact, in this debate. I found something that we agree on. He said there is a difference between left and right in Swedish politics. It's just to agree. The difference is clear today. On the one hand, we have a self-satisfying social democracy with partners, on the other hand, an alliance that takes people's problems and concerns seriously and delivers solutions. In today's debate alone, a wide range of policies involving people have been debated by the Alliance. It is about care, care, school, integration, insecurity, the police, entrepreneurship and jobs, to name but a few. Mr President, I would like to It's time for an alliance government!
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-527	Mr President, I would like to Floorlayers and smiths, butchers and cooks, sheet metal workers, welders, masons, nurses, painters, concrete workers, carpenters, fitters – the shortage of labour is great in all counties throughout Sweden. Today's proposals on business schools can help us solve this. It might help, but it's not safe. The proposal is a small, gleaming piece of gold in a large and stormy black hole of a generally rather incoherent and anti-job policy that the government is pursuing. As the government increases payments and spends more on benefits than on welfare and raises the threshold of jobs for more and more people, it hits hard everyone who is then not allowed to contribute, but also everyone else: all the elderly in the care of the elderly, who do not have enough to take care of them, all the teachers who do not have enough colleagues, and all the students. For an anti-job policy affects welfare; so it is connected, and that whole misses the government time and again. With increased taxes on companies, it also reduces the opportunities for entrepreneurs to help us fix this. At the same time, we have increased exclusion and labour shortages. It's kind of crazy when you think about it, but that's what it looks like. And it gets worse because government policy is not connected. It is not only in the big part that the policy is not linked, but also in general in this small, generally positive proposal. The proposal on business schools, on which we are going to debate and decide today, is drawn from an alliance inquiry. Unfortunately, however, important details are missing, which will make it unnecessarily difficult for shortage professions and industry to help us get out of this mess. The investigation launched by the Alliance, which presented this proposal, strongly stressed the importance of combining the introduction of industry schools with increased and better study and career guidance. Without it, I am afraid that this proposal will reach its full potential. That is the case with proposals that are relatively innovative. It requires information. Information is needed to overcome doubts that pupils and parents may have. And we know that many students – and parents – are reluctant to start vocational education in high school. Although the proposal on business schools would make it easier for those students who do not hesitate to study just such an education, it does not automatically make more students understand the beauty of studying vocational education. That is why we have put forward proposals for greater and better guidance on studies and careers in connection with this proposal. We also want to take the opportunity to show more in action that vocational training is not a dead end in terms of making a career, for example. An SYV business can tell you all of this, but it gives much more if you can also see that it is true. We believe that this could be done by walling industry schools with universities of applied sciences, industries and companies, so that students can go there and see: If I choose to study this profession, I can contribute to reducing labour shortages and contributing to growth. I'm gonna be easy to get a job. If I would like to work with something else in the future or if the labour market for this particular profession develops enormously, I will in the future have opportunities to develop within my profession or to change my profession. Then we not only talk, but then we also show in action that vocational education and training is a great and important opportunity both for our students and for our society as a whole. That is why I support our Amendment No 2.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-537	Mr President, I would like to I think it is a good thing that the Committee on Education and Training is given the chance to continue to debate much of what the party leader debate was about, namely the opportunity for Sweden's development, the opportunity for jobs and entrepreneurship and the opportunity for skills provision for the large part of the business community that is today screaming for people to hire – competent people who can be part of the construction of the future. Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin my speech by calling for the approval of Amendment No 3, as I have said. Of course, we support all our reservations. Now the majority has not had the chance to develop what the proposal is about. We wait with excitement to hear a little more about it later. But I thought I'd dwell on some parts. When you have such good proposals at the time, I would have wished that you had actually dared a little more, precisely to enable people to be part of the future Sweden. So this is a pilot project with business schools. The Alliance government set up the Vocational Programme Investigation, which produced its report a while ago. We have had reason to deal with this in a few different ways. It is a good thing that certain issues are now being brought forward by the government, but it is also a pity that you do not dare any more. It is about more young people having a job to go to and more companies finding the right skills. Vocational training must then be strengthened. This is about setting up business schools. There could be different forms of competence centres around Sweden, which further strengthen the quality of our vocational education and training. It is good that it is being implemented. I get a little worried when you write that it will end in 2023, as if you want to fortify right now that it is just an attempt and that it may not be a continuation. Job is surely the most important measure that you can work with when it comes to closing the gaps that many parties talk about. Then I would like to put forward what we in the alliance parties have put forward in our reservations, namely the need to further develop business schools and to allow them to become the centres of excellence that they could become. Last March we had an announcement from the Education Committee in this House to review apprenticeships. The government now believes that this proposal has dealt with this issue. I think that's a bit of a pity. The development of apprenticeships had earned further thought and created further better opportunities. The second joint reservation by the alliance parties concerns study and career guidance. We had an announcement from a united committee at the beginning of May. We now refer to the fact that nothing more needs to be done in this regard. But we all know that study and career guidance is an incredibly important factor in knowing what future opportunities you have. We in the Center Party had the privilege of having a seminar with LR last week on these very issues and the importance of creating a qualitatively sound study and career guidance. I was then privileged to meet a study and career counselor from Eskilstuna who could tell me what fantastic opportunities it offers if you start study and career guidance already in grade 1 in comprehensive school. It reduces the number of re-elections. This means that more young people will find the right way forward that they want to invest in. We're talking about study and career guidance. An evaluation was carried out by IFAU in 2013– we refer to it in our exercise. As many as 45 percent of young people have no adult whom they feel they can talk to about their future high school elections. That there are so many that you feel: Here we need to turn over every stone and seize every opportunity to emphasize the need. In the Alliance Government, Jan Björklund gave a commission to the Swedish National Agency for Education to work with the development of study and career guidance. It is now working on these issues, but quite a few further measures are needed to further strengthen quality. We deliver as many proposals as we can from the alliance parties and are excited to see that the government parties are taking on board and that they are actually taking on this. Once again, I would like to say that the piloting of business schools is a good thing. This is something that we in the Center Party have highlighted in different ways. But at the same time I find it a little sad that you do not dare to go further with the different parts. Why do you not dare to develop the possibilities further? Mr President, I would like to If this is to succeed, it is about having a really good study and career guidance that can work on the opportunities young people have in this regard and can also highlight various practical issues. When you build industry schools in some places in Sweden it will mean greater mobility for young people. It's about moving around. There should also be a clear review of the pressures that this may entail in different ways. Although this report rejects the motion for stronger study and career guidance, it is important that the government parties intend to come back to this. Everything, Mr President, is about more young people having a job to go to and the whole business community needs more resources for skills provision, with more people at the disposal of the labour market. Then it will also be important to think about: How do we make it possible for many of the new Swedes who have come to Sweden to take part in our education system in different ways, so that it also benefits future jobs?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-552	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is in many ways in a favourable position. We have a world economic picture that looks good and a good economic situation in Europe, and we also see how unemployment can be squeezed back somewhat. At the same time, at the top of a boom, one can see what major structural problems the Swedish labour market actually has. Even when we are at the peak of the boom, we do not succeed in reaching the levels of unemployment that we have become accustomed to before, a few decades ago. This is, of course, because we have a composition of the workforce that looks somewhat different. The concentration of those who remain in unemployment during the boom is largely about those people who find it very difficult to enter the labour market in general, and that group is growing. This risks increasing the gaps in Sweden, and it has already increased the gaps between those who have jobs and those who do not have jobs. Of course, the greatest injustice in a country is between those who are able to support themselves and those who do not. Mr President, I would like to A great deal of creativity is needed here, both in terms of changes in the labour market and in the education system. It is perhaps the biggest challenge in the coming decade to ensure that more people have the chance to enter the labour market and support themselves, because when we then leave the boom and go into recession, they will remain, those who are there today, while new ones come into being. Those who find it difficult to enter the labour market today are then even further away from the gender. Sweden needs an update and upgrading of vocational education and training, and this must be done throughout the field. It must be done on the upper secondary level, it must be done in primary school and I welcome the fact that the government is now also addressing the prao question. This must also take place in the context of a change in upper secondary, tertiary and labour market education. From the Liberals' side, we welcome the step taken by the government in the form of industry schools. We think it may be a first step, but it is also important to note that this cannot be the only step. Just as Ida Drougge and Ulrika Carlsson have previously said, there is a need for further improvements to, among other things, this experimental activity, and it is good that my colleagues in the Alliance are pressing for professional guidance in order for more people to find their way in the education system. Liberals want to go further, Mr President. We would like to see a completely new form of education, a major reform of vocational training in general. On the one hand, it should be regarded as perfectly normal to take an apprenticeship – more attractive and with better quality, because we know that apprenticeships often lead to jobs by having a good education combined with a good relationship with working life and, on the other hand, a reform of vocational education and training at the upper secondary level is needed. Together with labour market and post-secondary education, it could be transformed into a high-quality vocational school, inspired by the university of applied sciences that we have today and which is largely driven by the needs of the labour market, where quality is guaranteed by a very close link with the labour market. Liberals believe that the system we have at the university of applied sciences should also be used to strengthen vocational education and training at upper secondary level. It is time to gather together and take a holistic approach at this level. Mr President, I would like to As my predecessors in the Alliance said earlier, it is important that new opportunities are constantly available. It is clear that vocational training can turn out to be a job that disappears in a few years' time. This is because we see a huge structural change in the Swedish and European labour markets as well as in the economic structure in general and globally, which means that we must be very prepared to change ourselves, just as society must be prepared to change society. That is why great opportunities are needed for further training, further training, deeper knowledge and sometimes even a change of profession, and therefore, Mr President, I am very much in favour of reservation 5.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-564	Mr President, I would like to We are debating a pilot project with industry schools. Upper secondary vocational programmes are the basis for industrial and welfare skills provision. There is a decreasing interest in vocational education and training, and many sectors express concerns about their future skills supply. Statistics show that there may be a lack of up to 100 000 upper secondary vocational graduates in 2025. The size of the upper secondary school children also poses major challenges for the principals to maintain a comprehensive range within upper secondary school. Yesterday, the Swedish Public Employment Service produced a report saying that the labour market is like a train and that companies are searching with lights and lanterns for skilled labour. In order to strengthen the supply of skills in small professional areas, the Government is now putting forward proposals for experimental activities with industry schools. The proposal means that school leaders should be able to offer complete vocational training even if the pupil base is not sufficient for the professions. Instead, students study the professional subjects of an industry school. It may allow principals to maintain a wider range than would otherwise be possible. The idea of industry schools is that industries and companies with a need for specific professional roles should be able to start and establish training courses, either on their own initiative or together with an existing school specifically focused on the sector's skills needs. In this way, resources, equipment, learning environments and professional teacher resources can be concentrated in one or more places in Sweden. Activities already exist in some sectors, but they need to be developed in more professional areas and in more parts of the country. This is a good proposal, and I would like to support it. Mr President, I would like to The sectoral school proposal under consideration comes from the Vocational Programme Survey, which would look at whether companies could take greater responsibility for vocational education and training by developing an apprenticeship model with professionals like the European/German model. However, the overall industry's response was no. That's not the solution they wanted to see. They would prefer to see perhaps the proposal we have today: business schools. That is why today we have a good proposal with broad support which I am sure will make a difference. Mr President, I would like to As I said, there are industries and companies that are already taking a great deal of responsibility today. I was going to take some examples from my own county, Sörmland. I visited Plåt & Vent in Katrineholm on Friday. That is a model for this proposal. Plåt & Vent is owned by entrepreneurs within the sheet metal company and the trade union organisation and is the industry's own school for education and competence development. They started their school already in the 90s, when they had identified that there were few schools with professional teachers in sheet metal and that the students were not actually allowed to learn all the elements of their apprenticeships. It was unequal. Since then, the industry has agreed on the professional skills needed to be employed as a sheet metal worker. These skills can be gained from the industry's own school. Students who do their professional degree as traditional apprentices, upper secondary school apprentices and students on the construction program are accepted who cannot get their tin courses at home. They also carry out competence development training for employees already employed. I am not as worried as the Liberals in reservation 1 that we need to worry about making apprentices a natural part of this, because they are already. Since the professional organisations in this case are a cluster of companies that have merged, the business school also becomes a centre of competence development. I find it difficult to see that what the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats are saying in reservation 2 can be passed by law. It's a bill we're talking about here today. The details of the activities will be laid down in the regulations, and it certainly cannot be excluded that the industry schools will have a role that you ask for in your reservation. I can give you an example from Sörmland and Katrineholm. There is also the IUC, the Education Centre of Installers, which is owned by the industry organisations VVS-f öretagen, Svensk Ventilation and the Swedish Kyll & Heat Pump Association and Katrineholm Municipality. There is also a real centre of excellence, which includes apprenticeship and YH training, and investments have been made in the educational environment with the latest technology. I know I talk a lot about Katrineholm, but the fact is that the glass industry's glass school is also there. It's glasmästeri, frame of art and car windows. I've been there myself and tried it, and it was really fun. It is also an example of when industries take responsibility for their own skills supply. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say something about the important issue of study and career guidance. We politicians cannot support enough the fact that young people choose to go on professional programmes, and we can now, with this proposal, provide a model for training in small professions. It'll be a complement. That's what the kids need to know. In committee, we fully agree on the importance of high quality guidance. We in the committee only made a joint statement to the government in May on this. The committee has also decided to carry out a follow-up and evaluation, i.e. an in-depth study on study and career guidance, which will give us in-depth knowledge in the committee. In 2016, there was a pool of forces and a unique investment in Swedish vocational training. The initiators, World Skills Sweden, LO, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Ministry of Education, led by the government, decided to invest additional resources in prioritising and highlighting Swedish vocational training. One way to do this is to increase attractiveness through a more comprehensive approach to action programmes that communicate the image of what modern vocational education means for society and for young people who are ready to choose their education. An important part of the work was that the industries themselves made an in-depth description of what the various professional programmes contain and what they can lead to. The bet continues, and we need to change its name. We cannot call it the year of vocational training because the work will continue. Now we need to ensure that young people are reached by the information, and we definitely need to work towards gender-based choices. Vocational education and training needs to be strengthened, attractiveness needs to be increased and employers and trade unions need to be brought closer to training. This can be done by the experimental activities of business schools. It is therefore gratifying that this afternoon Parliament will hopefully approve the committee's proposal.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-588	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is good that we are told from the speaker that it cannot be ruled out that what the Alliance mentions in its reservations can become a reality. We write these reservations to ensure that this happens, not because there is a small chance that it might be possible – after all. It would be easy for the government parties, if they agree and want to see a development with a centre of knowledge, to accept the reservations, just as the committee has previously made a declaration to the government on study and career guidance. If you agree with us, you can also show it in action, not just in words from the speaker's seat. It costs 2.3 billion per year for students to choose the wrong upper secondary education and thus have to re-select and read an extra year. That's a lot of money. It is money that could have been used earlier by investing in better study and career guidance to avoid the mischoice. Everyone sees the challenges of the proposal. Our students may not know what the programs look like, how it works with, for example, incapacitation grants and studying elsewhere. I therefore wonder what proposals the Social Democrats have on how to improve study and career guidance, not just that it should be improved.
i-A7viUAeiMzrJ6nYNqK718X	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Ida Drougge! Ida Drougge first raised the issue of centres of excellence. It absolutely cannot be ruled out. This is likely to happen. If different companies in an industry join forces and invest in schools, equipment and so on, the development will be like that. I showed you with my examples that this is the case. This is a bill, but I don't think it's possible to regulate such things. It will have to enter into a dialogue in the regulations that will be developed after the legislative proposal has been adopted. Then there was the question of how to improve the SYV. One of the proposals we jointly supported is a common digital platform. I believe that one. There's the website study.nu. There is also World Skills, which also has professional programs on its website. But there would be a common platform that could relieve the SUVs. There are not many of them, and they really need relief and competence development. The committee is conducting an evaluation. It will be presented in December. We need more knowledge. The National Association of Teachers has given us a basis. In dialogue with the Government, work is ongoing on guidelines for an investigation. It's going slow, to be honest! But I hope we can deliver an answer shortly.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-596	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I know it's a bill, but it's okay to clarify. I really agree that it takes a long time on the S.Y.V. hold. During previous terms of office, several investigations have been released about SYV, including some really solid ones. More proposals and action would be needed in this area. The Alliance and the Moderates believe that the government could have taken the opportunity, in connection with the presentation of a legislative proposal, to link efforts to study and career guidance aimed at the target group of students who may be interested in the proposal. You are welcome to take this with you as a contribution, and I hope you will come back again.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-600	Mr President, I would like to The vocational programme inquiry not only addressed industry schools, but also mentioned the need for a thorough study on study and career guidance. That's where I think it's taken a little too long. But we need the knowledge base before we can put forward concrete proposals. The very target group Ida Drougge talks about can do a great deal for through the year of vocational education – which, of course, it should not be called. The government, LO, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and World Skills are working on, and there can certainly be something done there. We don't have to wait for the investigation.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-602	Mr President, I would like to I thank Caroline Helmersson Olsson for the speech with a description of this bill and so on, and I think that, now that we have something good going on, we have an opportunity to tell you more and further about various issues that are at stake here. Caroline Helmersson Olsson mentioned how we can counteract more gender stereotyping choices, and then I became curious. During the visits to Katrineholm and so on, how did Caroline see that they work there? We know that these industry schools work and are highlighted as excellent examples. In what way do they work to counteract gender stereotyping choices and increase interest, not least in those sectors that have a great shortage of skills? I have another question of curiosity. There are many questions going on, and sometimes you may have to take one question at a time. But here in the debate we have a chance to broaden our perspective somewhat. We have a great deal of common ground when it comes to developing remote education in different ways. How does Caroline Helmersson Olsson see that this area could be closely linked to the possibility of industry schools? Without digitalization, it is difficult to get an education that is linked together. There were a couple of questions that it would be exciting to hear more about. Which other industries does Caroline Helmersson Olsson consider important? We mention that these are small and narrow industries, but what further industries does Caroline see as possible for industry schools, and where are they?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-607	Mr President, I would like to There were many questions from Ulrika Carlsson. I'll start with remote education. What I've seen is craft occupations. You can certainly have remote teaching on the theoretical part; I just haven't thought of it that way. What I have seen has been a more concrete and practical way of learning the profession. I have also visited the Electrical Engineering industry's upper secondary school and competence development centre in Nyköping, where it is quite concrete to be able to mount in a wall. But remote learning is an interesting thought. Let me take your question with me and think about it, because I had not prepared it at all. When it comes to gender stereotyping choices: Industry schools receive pupils from their municipality of residence. Therefore, it is a lot about working with such things at home, with the SYVs. The schools must of course also promote themselves with the fact that it is not only occupations for men– although in the school photos on the wall I did not find many women. There is a lot to think about here, but further education for the SUVs must also include this with gender stereotyping choices. With regard to proposals for more professions and industry schools, I can mention the flooring industry, which is screaming for people. It is a small and narrow industry that is not everywhere. It also applies to wall and plaster. In Almedalen I met that business, and they told me that you have a lot of trouble finding people who can build stoves and so on. I'm sure there are other industries, but I can't think of anyone else right now.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-611	Mr President, I would like to I thank Caroline Helmersson Olsson for the opportunity for dialogue and discussion on these issues. It is important that we highlight this in the future and show opportunities also from the political arena, even if it is authorities that are implementing. Just as Caroline Helmersson Olsson says, it is in comprehensive school and upper secondary school that the opportunity to counteract too much gender stereotyping choices is given. I hope that it is not that primary and secondary school are on two different ministers that make it take time in the Government Office to get the SYV investigation in place. It has been over a month since the announcement was given. I can only guess that as soon as it became clear that there was going to be an announcement, the Ministry was struck about the same and that the Ministry wanted to meet Parliament's expectations and do a good job. Also highlighted are narrower areas of the food industry. I believe that former Secretary of State von Zweigbergk highlighted, for example, slaughterhouses. So there are many industries. Here we politicians may have something of a public education mission in order to broaden the view on what skills might be needed in different industries in the future. Although much points to the school's mission and study and career guidance, it is also about how we politicians highlight the needs of different industries. We can all be part of strengthening the image of where labour is needed in the future and what training options exist. When it comes to remote education, I understand that it is not possible to make sheet metal warehouses with remote teaching. But linking education and training with the centre of excellence using modern technology should be a good entry point.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-617	Mr President, I would like to I didn't get a question, but I listened carefully to what Ulrika Carlsson said. I can assure Ulrika Carlsson that it is rather much to the government that it is time to get this off the ground; I can assure you that. I came up with another business that I was courted by: the construction materials dealers. Much is being built in Sweden, and a lot of building materials are being purchased. Traders find it hard to find competent people. If it comes in customer as I say, I'm going to have an element, there has to be someone there who knows the industry, knows what I need and can meet customers and sell. There are certainly more companies that we can hope to enter into this experiment.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-620	Mr President, I would like to I do not support anything other than the committee's proposal. The government's proposal for experimentation with industry schools will not directly solve the mismatch in the labour market or the educational needs of Sweden as a nation. However, we have nothing against the very proposal that under the School Act, upper secondary school may enter into an agreement with an industry school that the school performs certain tasks, so-called construction. Caroline Helmersson Olsson developed the more the proposal is. Like the proposer, we see that this will mean increased opportunities for training in narrow professions where there is a shortage of labour. But, of course, this proposal alone will not be sufficient to cover the labour shortages that exist in many areas. We are generally in favour of business schools – even to real business schools, which are not actually ‘h', as was pointed out in a follow-up motion. This is about cooperation between municipal vocational schools and industry schools, which is also a good thing. There are already business schools today. If the laws need to be amended or if more efforts are needed to promote industry schools, we are happy to look at it. We believe that business schools have a future ahead of them. The referral bodies have submitted the proposal for the most part without comment or comment. A consultation body has rejected the proposal, but the explanatory statement was strange. One might wonder if they even understood what the proposal is. It was a very messy and strange answer. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, this is a step in the right direction. We hope for continued development of both vocational training at different levels and apprenticeships. This is needed in Swedish business and for future students. This is a trial, and it should be evaluated and adjusted after the end of the trial period – a trial time that is, by the way, quite long.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-628	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is doing well. In 2017 and 2018, employment will increase by a total of 149,000 people, according to the Swedish Public Employment Service's forecast presented the other day. Growth in the first quarter of 2017 was 0.4 per cent compared to the last quarter of 2016. The government's construction of society has produced results. At the same time, climate-related emissions are also reduced. Emissions in the non-contracting sector, i.e. the emissions that the Swedish Government and the Riksdag control, decreased in 2016 compared to 2015. It is particularly pleasing that emissions in traffic decreased by 4 per cent, despite the increase in total traffic. Having said that, I would like to call for the approval of Amendment No 17 in the report and, in addition, for approval of the other proposals in the report. We have a long-term, effective climate policy. Good economic development can be combined with reductions in emissions. Yes, it is even the case that a good economic policy is a prerequisite for resources to be available for investment. Investments in the future, in a sustainable society and in new low-emission technologies create new resources for jobs, growth and well-being. Let me take an example which the bourgeois Members often criticise in this House on the wrong grounds. The Government's investments in local climate investments, Climate Change, are closely followed by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to give real, real climate effects. In fact, we have taken on board the criticism that has been made of the previous governments' investment programme. Of course, we should not give money to investments that would have been made without state aid. Of course, we should be careful to know that the investments really lead to a reduction in emissions. The criticism presented by the bourgeois parties is based on old tasks. With the new efforts announced by the government in the spring change budget, climate change is expected to reduce annual emissions by 11⁄2 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent. This represents one fifth of the total emissions from all petrol cars in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to It has been a long journey to come to this day, this decision and this debate – this day when the Swedish Parliament will establish a new long-term climate policy framework. I am proud to have been part of this journey, and I would like to thank everyone involved for having been able to reach this point. It really started already during the last parliamentary term. The countries of the world had then failed to find a way forward in the 2009 climate negotiations in Copenhagen. It gave birth to an insight in Sweden that we were in a unique situation – a unique opportunity. We had the opportunity to take the leadership and through our actions show others where the future was low: to create growth and jobs in a modern society together with reduced emissions, sustainability and a circular economy. That is how we Social Democrats are happy to be climate politicians. We want to build a sustainable society. We want to take on the task by developing and modernising Sweden in a sustainable way. It is the struggle for jobs, welfare and a sustainable future that drive our climate commitment. And it is carried by values of equality, equality and solidarity with people from all countries of the world. A model for the climate framework was found in the UK, where the Labour Government, together with the opposition parties Liberal Democrats and Tories, had developed a model for creating long-term climate policy. And it was the business world that demanded it. They wanted to ensure long-term sustainability – that investments made were not overturned by new political bids. Today we see how right people were in Britain. Their current Prime Minister Theresa May from Tories now allows an almost climate-denial party to enter the fine room, but she can lean against a British climate law and a framework that will last for a long time to come. Although the United Kingdom was the model, we could see that Sweden had other prerequisites. The broad political agreement that we reached in the Environment Agenda and which has now resulted in a bill and the committee report that we are discussing here today is the Swedish model of the British Climate Act, which we began to look for years after the failure in Copenhagen. Now, with a regressive President of the United States and new opposing forces elsewhere, the Swedish model is even more needed. That is what we are giving ourselves and the world here in this House today. Mr President, I would like to The climate policy framework that is now finally on the table is a uniquely ambitious focus on climate policy. The targets to reduce traffic emissions by 70% by 2030, to reach minus 85% in emissions reductions by 2045 and then to move towards negative emissions are not matched anywhere else. This in combination with a climate law is, right now, the world's best climate goals. I know that, for example, large Chinese companies are ready to invest in new fossil-free technologies here in the Nordic countries and that new innovations for the renewable and circular economy are on the desks around the Swedish universities and our companies. I see huge opportunities for Swedish green jobs and innovations with today's decision. With Sweden taking the lead in the climate and environmental transition, Swedish companies can be at the forefront of developing the new technology that the world demands. They can become more competitive with energy and resource-efficient solutions. Not least our vast forest supply can help us replace oil-based fuels. We are now giving the long-term signal that we have been waiting for by voting in favour of the climate policy framework. But today's decision is not the end line. That's the starting shot on a new stretch. This is where the job goes into a new phase: a straight line that comes after a slightly tricky road. We can finally see the direction and the objectives. That is what the climate policy framework gives us. We are cross-block and broadly agreed on the direction and objectives. In many cases, we will certainly also agree on the methods of achieving this, but each party must now consider what measures are needed to achieve this. Every time you say 'no' to others' proposals, you have to replace them with your own proposals that provide equal emission reductions. That is the whole point of this framework. I would like to conclude with a call, and I hope that others who are looking in the future for clues in the minutes of debate will read this: do not think that the future will come later, that we will probably have time to develop those measures eventually and that there would be plenty of time to achieve the goals! That mistake has been made too many times. We have to start here and now, all the time. The government has put forward a number of proposals. It is investments and instruments that produce results, but also investments and instruments that the opposition rejects. Some of them are threatened with falling into the budget procedure in the autumn, without giving others their own options. That's not good enough. Now it is time to roll up the sleeves and deliver what will make the journey worth the effort, to deliver a Sweden that will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. At least that is the very good news of the government.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-648	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased and proud to be here today, because this debate is largely about the proposal for a strengthened climate policy framework. Now I'm sure some people who follow this debate are wondering how I, as a representative of the Moderates, the largest opposition party, can have such feelings for a bill. It's a government proposal. That is the formal way of thinking. However, this framework and proposal are not primarily the merit of the government but a result of the great work that we members from seven of the eight parties of the Riksdag did in the parliamentary environmental policy committee in 2015 and 2016. Madam President, I would like Behind the Environmental Objectives Committee's proposals are all four alliance parties, the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party. The Left Party is behind the lion's party, but unfortunately, in the final stages of preparation, it chose to reserve itself against certain parts of the proposal in an attempt to profile its own party instead of taking responsibility for the whole. I regret the actions of the Left, as well as the total disinterest of the Swedish Democrats. But above all, I note that we have managed to agree on ambitious objectives and robust frameworks for Swedish climate policy. Roughly, the proposal contains three parts which I, Madam President, would like to outline briefly. The first part consists of a long-term and very ambitious objective that Sweden should have no net greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere by 2045 at the latest. On the way, interim targets are set for 2030 and 2040, as well as a specific target for the transport sector. The second part consists of a developed planning and monitoring system. How the government should conduct climate policy is clarified, as is the relationship between the parliament and the government. The Government must, among other things, submit a comprehensive annual climate report to the Riksdag, which contains a report on the emission development as well as a description of the measures adopted as well as the need for further efforts to achieve the goals set. In addition, the Government, once per mandate, will draw up an action plan clarifying how the Government's overall policy contributes or is intended to contribute to the achievement of the milestones and the long-term objective. Madam President, I would like The third part concerns the establishment of a special Climate Policy Council. This Council, like the F inanspolitik Council, will independently examine and follow up the government's policy. Among other things, the Council will analyse whether the policy is cost-effective and then look at whether the measures proposed by the government achieve the climate policy objectives set at the lowest cost. The Council is given a very important role, and I have great hopes that it will contribute positively to the development of Swedish climate policy. We Moderates have always represented a cost-effective and results-oriented climate policy. For us, it is not enough goodwill in climate policy, but it must also lead to good results. Tax funds should always be used with caution, and the climate challenge is simply too great to be met by ineffective measures. We simply cannot afford a wasteful climate policy. That is why the Council's task is to monitor the cost-effectiveness of the policies pursued. Madam President, I would like The fact that we now agree widely across party and block boundaries on the objectives of Swedish climate policy, I hope, will also help to ensure that the political debate will focus to a greater extent on precisely how the objectives are to be achieved and on results. Unfortunately, the results of the current S- and MP government are a serious combination of running costs and increasing emissions. It can only be described as a major failure for the current government. Sweden needs a new alliance government. Following President Trumps's very worrying announcement that he intends to pull the US out of the historic global climate agreement, which was negotiated in Paris in 2015, it is more important than ever that Sweden and the EU pursue a policy that succeeds in reconciling rapidly declining emissions with strong economic development. Indeed, in order for us to take on the role of the country before us, through practical policies and actual results, we must put an end to Trumps's claim that an ambitious climate policy would conflict with jobs and economic development. Unlike the current government, the alliance government managed well to show that jobs and growth can certainly go hand in hand with declining emissions. During the time of the Alliance, Swedish emissions decreased by nearly 20 per cent, while Sweden's economy grew by 10 per cent. Now, with S and MP in government, we see how emissions increase, while the Swedish economy does not develop as well as it should. If we compare ourselves with the other EU countries, we currently have the second lowest growth. On the labour market, we see an increased job gap between native and foreign born, and for the first time since 2013, we saw an increase in the number of unemployed people in April. At the moment, it is therefore difficult to see Sweden as an actual pioneer country, as the current government is not able to deliver reducing emissions or strong economic development. Madam President, I would like This development must be reversed and the continued policy built on the principles and starting points that the Environmental Objectives Committee set out and which an almost united parliament will now support. As a moderate, there are some principles that I would like to emphasise in particular, and which I personally pushed hard in the negotiations in the preparation. Firstly, our Swedish climate targets must be met in a way that maintains Sweden's overall competitiveness or, preferably, strengthens and goes hand in hand with the creation of new jobs and increased food production. Secondly, the targets must not be achieved in a way that leads to emissions increasing beyond Sweden's borders. It also follows from the second principle that it is wrong, for example, to price emissions from activities already covered by the EU ETS with national taxes. Instead, in order to speed up the reduction of emissions from the trading sector, it is the ambitions of the EU ETS that need to be gradually increased. The ability to do so without weakening the competitiveness of Swedish and European industry is largely determined by the extent to which other countries follow and price their emissions. Despite President Trumps's very serious news, the Paris Agreement gives me hope that the world is finally about to take the climate challenge seriously. However, there is still a major gap between the objective of keeping global temperature growth well below 2 degrees with a view to 1.5 degrees and the actual commitments of the countries. The pressure of international climate negotiations must therefore be maintained. Madam President, I would like In addition to the proposal on the strengthened climate policy framework, this report also deals with a number of motions from the general period of exercise. The Moderates and the Alliance have put forward a wide range of proposals to speed up climate policy. Of course, I support all the moderate reservations and all the common reservations expressed by the Alliance. But for time winning, I choose to claim approval for reservations 7 and 19. Reservation 7 deals with what I just mentioned, namely the need for Sweden to be a driving force in international negotiations with a view to encouraging all parties to the Paris Agreement to update their national action plans so that the gap between objectives and actual action is closed. Reservation 19 deals with the Moderates' proposal to develop a specific zero emission strategy for the base industry. This proposal also supported the Environmental Objectives Committee. But the government has so far not made the proposal a reality, but has been passive. I'm worried about that. If we are to achieve the target of no net greenhouse gas emissions by 2045, without shifting emissions to other countries, then we must be able to switch our industry in general and our base and process industries in particular. The Moderates want to see increased industrial production in Sweden, but with decreasing emissions. We believe that a zero emission strategy can be an important tool for achieving this and thus contributing to faster reductions in global emissions. Swedish industry is already at the forefront of the environment and climate. Our industries thus deliver not only fantastic materials and products but also climate benefits. For example, Swedish steel production is considerably more carbon-efficient than the Chinese or American one. The more steel Sweden can produce and export, the lower the global emissions. This global perspective is important to have with you when Sweden's national climate policy is designed. Finally, Madam President, I would like to thank the other members of the Environment Committee. Thank you, Matilda Ernkrans, the Social Democrats! Thank you, Stina Bergström, the Green Party! Thank you, Rickard Nordin, the Center Party! Thank you, Jens Holm, Left Party! Thank you, Irene Oskarsson, the Christian Democrats! Of course, thanks also to the chairman of the preparation and the fantastic office for working hard and constructively and helping us to reach the historic agreement Parliament is now clubs through. Did I say thank you to Lars Tysklind, the Liberals? Lars Tysklind deserves special thanks! This could have caused a bad mood in the alliance gang. Madam President, I would like At the same time, I would strongly urge the present government to uphold and respect the agreement. The great consensus that we finally managed to reach in the preparation was neither simple nor self-evident. It required an enormous amount of work and a great deal of will on the part of all the Members and from all the parties. Therefore, I would like to address myself directly to Minister of Climate Change Isabella Lövin. Don't lose the unity! Don't break the agreement by pursuing a policy that leads to increased freedom beyond Sweden's borders! Do not break the agreement by taxing activities already covered by the EU ETS, and respect the agreement! Follow the announcement the Riksdag is now making that climate policy should be conducted so that reducing emissions are combined with economic growth!
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-674	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking Johan Hultberg. I know what a hard and fantastic job you did – not least within your party – to reach the broad agreement we now decide on in the Swedish Parliament, Johan. It thus contains the world's best climate goals. We did a huge job, and on the whole we should be very happy that we could find such a large cross-block consensus on this direction. I think that's what Sweden and the world need. Having said that, I think that the path the opposition has taken is a little sad. The Moderates – and we could hear it from the Swedish Democrats in the party leader debate earlier – choose to paint Sweden dark and black. There may be reasons for this if you are an opposition party, but here I do not think there is a reason. We also agree widely that we will be able to build sustainable growth together with reduced emissions. The statistics – what we know about Swedish emissions – show that the emissions that we control in Sweden, the domestic emissions from the non-contracting sector, are decreasing. I think that we should be happy about this, and especially that they are reducing in the area of traffic, which is the big challenge. Then it is true that emissions are increasing in the trading sector, that is, our industries and other things. This sector is subject to the EU emissions trading scheme. However, emissions allowances are reduced in total every year within the EU, and the fact that emissions are increasing within Swedish industry only shows that Swedish industry is competitive. Do the Moderates really mean that Swedish industry should move abroad so that we can cope with Swedish emissions?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-678	Madam President, I would like I have no ambition whatsoever to black out Sweden; I simply note, with reference to official statistics from SCB, that Sweden's emissions are increasing. It is clear that in some sense it must be seen as a failure for this government. If the Social Democrats and Matilda Ernkrans do not think it is a failure that politics leads to rising emissions in Sweden, I am concerned. You can't be satisfied when emissions rise. Then Matilda Ernkrans is of course in on an important explanation, namely that Swedish industry is doing well and that is why emissions from the trading sector are rising. I simply note that both the Social Democrats and the Green Party are a rather large discrepancy in the reasoning compared to when they were in opposition. When we had this discussion during the last parliamentary term, I was, as a moderate, often accused of numerically intoxicating. It was thought that it was a way to wriggle and not take responsibility, but now is the time. I note that we need to help our industry change. Therefore, we are pushing for a strategy to help the industry do just that, so that we can produce more steel, more cement and more cars in Sweden – but with lower emissions. I would therefore like to ask Matilda Ernkrans and the government why it does not get ahead with this work and implement the Environmental Objectives Committee's proposal to develop a specific zero emission strategy for industry.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-681	Madam President, I would like In a serious climate policy where we seriously care for the broad agreement we have, we need to be able to identify where we need to do more to reduce emissions. And yes, we need to do more to reduce emissions in the non-contracting sector, that is, in Sweden from our transport – absolutely! The government has also provided large sums of money in climate policy to do so. We also need to reduce emissions in what is the EU's common emissions trading system. Not least the Moderates are very careful to point this out here in Sweden; the concern is that your moderate friends in the EU are running a completely different policy. So I think the Moderates need to talk to each other. But here too, of course, the government is pursuing a very active policy and spending money on investment so that we can continue to reduce our emissions while at the same time building sustainable growth. It is absolutely necessary, and it is important to put action behind words. Speaking of putting action behind the words: What the Moderates present here instead is a strategy, while we know that the Moderates together with the bourgeois parties – one can also add the Swedish Democrats – want to go forward and lower the cat in the Swedish economy by 100 billion. With 100 billion less in the Swedish treasury, how will a party like the Moderates be able to put action behind the words of the strategy and find what LKAB, SSAB and Vattenfall, for example, are looking for? In fact, they have developed an innovation in which you can make steel out of hydrogen without emissions, but they need private and public investment in the form of money to spin it and make it big. How will you manage such an investment if you at the same time deduct 100 billion of our common money in the Treasury, Johan Hultberg?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-685	Madam President, I would like I understand that Matilda Ernkrans and representatives from the government parties are not so keen to talk about results when we see that Swedish emissions are rising while the Swedish economy is slowing down. Yes, we have growth in Sweden, but it is remarkable that we have the second lowest growth in Europe. This means that we will have reduced, or at least not rapidly growing, resources to invest in everything from more police officers to better infrastructure and support to research projects to which Matilda Ernkrans referred. The Moderates will always say no to what we believe to be ineffective measures. We will always be taxpayers' defenders. We will stand up for taxpayers' right to expect that the money they have worked hard for and paid in tax will also deliver real benefits. Unfortunately, we see that much of the government's policy does not. We see that the costs are running out, but that emissions are actually rising in Sweden. For us to be a front country, we must succeed in combining strong economic development with reducing emissions, and this government does not. Then I think it needs to be measures that allow the industry to be competitive while reducing emissions, and then this is the strategy – something we in the Environmental Objectives Committee agreed on is an important tool to manage this. In fact, at European level, the Moderates were pushing for the government to come up with a better mandate for the negotiations on the reform of Europe's emissions trading system, and we were given the opportunity to have a review in order to further strengthen the level of ambition in the long term. This is how we can create incentives for industry to switch, but we must ensure that Swedish and European industries are competitive. This is probably not done by greatly increasing taxes on jobs, entrepreneurship and everything that is important for entrepreneurship and job creation, Madam President.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-689	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for additional cases to reservations 1 and 2. I would also like to say a few words about the fact that, for the first time, we on the part of the Swedish Democrats are taking part in an announcement against the government in the field of climate policy. I am pleased that the opposition has been able to agree. It also shows that there is an alternative to the government's ineffective climate policy and that cooperation can make it more effective. What climate policy is basically about is that billions of people are currently rising out of poverty, which is basically something fantastic. Within a ten-year period, the UN expects that the number of people unable to eat enough will be more than halved. The proportion of people living in extreme poverty has fallen from 40% to less than 10%. Fewer and fewer countries are governed by communists and other totalitarian dictatorships. World health is improving and life expectancy is increasing. Much work remains to be done, but progress is moving in the right direction, and there is every reason to be happy. The connection to our area becomes quite obvious: People's feeling better and getting richer—or less poor—also leads to them starting to ask for new things. The population has grown sharply, resulting in an exponential increase in energy demand. What climate policy is basically about is a pressing need for cheap and stable energy. That is what it is about, and that is what we are actually debating here. There has been talk of a boom for sun and wind, but the statistics show that this is not the case. More than three quarters of all energy comes from fossil power. In ten years renewables have increased by 1 percentage point. Renewable is mostly about burning wood. Sun and wind account for less than 1% today and are barely relevant in a global perspective, according to data from the IEA, which is the equivalent of the OECD in the field of energy. There is a lot of talk about the green revolution in renewables, but there is more talk about it than can be seen in statistics. Over the next few decades, we will see no significant difference if we are to believe in the forecasts that exist and take into account the commitments made in connection with the Paris Agreement. Madam President, I would like If you follow the debate here, the solution in Sweden is that we continue to subsidise sun and wind even more and that we sabotage the Swedish energy market by bringing down prices so that it is hardly profitable for anyone to produce anything at all. That's where we are – everyone screams for more relief, even when it comes to wind and sun. We got an energy agreement that means that our nuclear power might be able to continue for a while longer. However, as the agreement is formulated, it cannot be understood in any other way than that nuclear power should be gone in 2040 – this despite the fact that climate research, the IPCC and others agree that nuclear power is something we need more of. That is where we need to invest more in research and development, but despite this, nuclear energy is something we should push out. In addition, we want to subsidise biofuels. This may reduce emissions in Sweden, but it may well increase them globally, taking into account land use. Our biofuels are mostly imported, and this will continue to be the case for a long time. This is not a sensible policy if you want to tackle global climate effects. Madam President, I would like We have heard a lot about the Paris climate agreement, which is also known as the Paris Agreement or the Paris Agreement. This agreement has many different names in different countries – it depends on what you need to sell to the people. There is talk of the Paris Agreement as some sort of salvation, but that is not what it is about. As a small country in terms of both emissions and population, we must be happy for all global initiatives. We in the Swedish Democrats are pleased that we have been able to agree on something, no matter how much it really is. However, we should be aware that the Paris Agreement is fundamentally based on empty promises, which have been sold to the people by means of an extremely ambitious objective. This objective has no connection with either promises or proposed measures. The fact that the United States has now left the Paris Agreement, or that it will formally do so in a few years' time, I do not think it will. To have as many debaters apocalyptic reasoning on this becomes almost ridiculous. I read that Secretary of State Margot Wallström fired a tweet in connection with the US decision. She writes that the US decision to leave the Paris Agreement is a decision to leave mankind's last chance to secure the future for our children. It's here somewhere that it's going to be extremely ridiculous. It is a non-binding agreement with extremely modest voluntary promises. It will make no difference to mankind. It may create a basis for cooperation, collaboration and the possibility to come up with new proposals in the future. It is probably not a disaster for the United States either, because technology development will continue there. It has also helped to increase access and lower gas prices and to compete to some extent with coal, which is by far the most important thing that has to happen in the global field. Madam President, I would like What we are about to decide today is mainly the Government's proposal for climate law and a new framework for climate policy. On the Swedish Democrats' side, we have proposed that large parts of the bill be rejected. That does not apply to everything, however. As the Swedish Democrats, as I have pointed out, see global collaboration as invaluable in climate policy, we support the objective set in connection with the climate agreement in Paris and the clarifications of the environmental quality objective Limited climate impact proposed by the government in connection with this agreement. Otherwise, we are calling for the proposal to be rejected in the proposal. Then why do we do it? I thought I'd go over some sections of the bill. The Swedish Democrats reject the proposal on the Climate Act. We do so on the same basis as several heavy consultation bodies, including the Law Council, which sawed the bill quite strongly. As far as legislation is concerned, responsibility should be exercised. If a law is to be passed in the Swedish parliament, it must have some formal effect. There is nothing to say how this law would have any effect and be binding, as legislation should be, when it lacks means of sanction and can be demolished by Parliament at any time. It has as much value as any agreement, and it seems that the law is only for show – to communicate fine words in the paper. The proposal lacks arguments for legislation to strengthen efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Several emission reduction targets are also covered. For a long time, Swedish climate policy has been based on Sweden taking precedence over other countries in this area and deciding on significantly greater emission reductions. The government proposal is a step in the same direction. By trumping targets decided both in Sweden and in the EU, it is hoped that other countries will be able to move in the same direction. The starting point is, of course, sympathetic, but there is something missing that indicates that this strategy will work in practice. There is no research that supports the Government's predecessor strategy, and an analysis of the consequences of a radical Swedish leadership policy in the climate field is lacking in the bill. Sweden is and should be an example in climate policy, but it is not clear that this is best done by constantly presenting the most expensive and radical emission reduction targets. If other countries are to be encouraged to take after Sweden, it is fundamental that low Swedish greenhouse gas emissions can be combined with strong economic growth that creates jobs and welfare. As far as the long-term emissions target is concerned, we wonder about proposing much more ambitious targets than was decided at European level, especially when this proposal completely lacks instruments and analyses of the consequences these instruments could have in the future. We do not see any motive for us in Sweden today to adopt new targets. We can keep the targets that we have. The same applies to the interim targets for 2030 and 2040. They are impossible to take a position on today, as there is no strategy for achieving the objectives. However, it is positive that the objectives include accompanying measures. At the same time, however, it is problematic and lacks analysis of how large levels should be allowed and why they should be limited at all. As the climate issue is global, it is important that policies build on this. If emissions occur here in Sweden or if we reduce them elsewhere should be completely irrelevant if you want to reduce emissions globally and have the temperature target included in the bill. Madam President, I would like The Government also proposes a Climate Policy Council. We reject the proposal and do not think it needs to be established. Both the need for the proposed Council and its status seem very unclear. There are already bodies doing all this work today. The Board of Finance, the National Audit Office and the Institute of Economic Affairs are responsible for examining the Government's actions in this area. They will also come back with reports. The task of assessing whether the Government's policy is sufficient to meet the targets is handled by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency within the framework of its current tasks, which is why a Climate Policy Council is superfluous. It may appear that, in the absence of any agreement from existing bodies, the government sees a need to establish a more benevolent Council, which of course is not an appropriate starting point. We have been able to see in this House on several occasions that the Council of Finance Ministers and the Institute of Economic Affairs have sawed the policy of the government and often of the previous alliance government in this area completely without much attention being paid to it. Madam President, I would like As I began my speech with, what we are debating today is basically about how poor people can get better, how they can access energy. How to do this without hampering their development and at the same time not increasing emissions so strongly is the great dilemma here. I think we would have a lot to gain by carrying out a more developed cost-benefit analysis of what is the most effective to invest in. Is it more subsidies and targets for what will happen in a particular sector in Sweden? Or should we perhaps invest a little more in technology exports instead and focus on simply combating the emissions problems where it matters?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-723	Madam President, I would like To sum up briefly what Martin Kinnunen's speech was about is not quite easy, because it certainly did not stick together. On the one hand, Martin Kinnunen says that the Swedish Democrats are behind the goal from Paris to keep the temperature increase well below 2 degrees with a view to 1.5 degrees. On the other hand, Martin Kinnunen says that we in Sweden cannot set such ambitious targets. But, Martin Kinnunen, the goals are about how Sweden should take its responsibility to reduce emissions as much as is necessary to achieve the Paris Agreement's ambitions. I can advise Martin Kinnunen to read a little bit about the conclusions of the IPCC regarding the emission reductions that need to be made. We therefore need to have come down to zero globally by the middle of this century in order to achieve negative emissions thereafter. If we in the Environmental Objectives Committee say that it is reasonable for Sweden to reach the target in 2045, it is quite well in line with what the research has come up with is needed for us to achieve the goals. It is very confusing to pursue the objectives and, at the same time, to criticise the Paris Agreement because it is not concrete enough and because the countries are not responding to it. But when we in Sweden try to respond to it and set clear goals for the long-term direction, then it is wrong. Martin Kinnunen asks what motivation there is for Sweden to set these goals. A clear motive is that they are in demand, that the business community and society's actors ask what politics wants in the long term. If you are going to invest in new technology, a new refinery, a plant to produce biofuels, batteries or whatever it might be, it is necessary to know that whether it is a red-green government or hopefully a strong alliance government is in any case the main lines. Why do the Swedish Democrats not want to contribute to providing the long-term rules of the game that business needs and wants?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-728	Madam President, I would like The Paris Agreement is good in the sense that you agree where you want to go. The aim is to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions in the world. That's great. The problem is that the Paris Agreement is not much more than that. That's the problem. Then the question is, how do we get there? After all, it is not our environmental objectives that will meet the objective of the Paris Agreement, but emissions must be reduced in the rest of the world simply. There is nothing we can do here in Sweden, but we can work to help create those opportunities and listen to the research. Sweden's most highly qualified climate researcher, Lennart Bengtsson, says that we cannot invest in costly emission reduction measures in Sweden. We are going to invest in technology exports, and we are going to have a research reactor with new nuclear power and try to export that technology abroad. We will try to encourage our companies to sell their heat pumps in developing countries. These are things that he puts forward and feels are important. Then there are probably scientists who think differently. But it is not the case that everyone agrees that the best way to solve global greenhouse gas emissions problems is by radical measures in Sweden. Energy needs clear rules of play, but it is not something that we get with emissions targets because they lack instruments and strategy and no parties agree on them. It is clear that there are huge numbers of companies that want subsidies and subsidies for their particular technology and biofuels, but if that is the most effective way of using tax funds, we do not know today. We do not agree on that at all in the Environmental Objectives Committee. While the Green Party is almost religious when it comes to meeting the goals, the Moderates are at least clear that this must not be done at the expense of our competitiveness. It is good that the Moderates have that position, but at the same time it means that you do not know if you are prepared to vigorously pursue the rather radical goals.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-733	Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a pioneer country, and the Environmental Objectives Committee is quite clear about what that means. This means that reducing emissions must be reconciled with economic development. The objectives that have now been set, which are ambitious and demanding for this and future governments, have a number of conditions. One condition is that emissions must not increase in other countries because of the measures taken in Sweden. Another condition is that the goals should be achieved while protecting and preferably strengthening our Swedish competitiveness. If we succeed in doing so, Sweden can be a pioneer country. Then the Moderates will always criticise ineffective measures. Mrs Kinnunen can be quite calm about that. The Moderates will also always see it as an important role for Sweden to export technology, know-how and of course goods and services. That is why we want to create the conditions for more jobs and more companies in Sweden to grow, and that is why research and technology development has always been a key part of moderate environmental and climate policy. We simply need to develop better solutions to today's problems and challenges. Therefore, I am proud that Sweden during the time of the Alliance, together with Israel, had the highest share of research funding in relation to bnp. I really believe that research and investment in these areas is an effective climate policy that ultimately generates jobs and companies in Sweden. Madam President, I would like I think that the policy of the Swedish democrats is limping and does not go together. It was also called for more by utility and cost analysis, but at the same time the Swedish Democrats are opposed to the creation of an independent reviewing Climate Policy Council. It is not that Riksrevisionen or others constantly follow up on Swedish climate policy. I wish that were the case, because then perhaps we would have had a more factual discussion about which measures are effective and which are not. We need that in Sweden.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-738	Madam President, I would like We have the follow-ups that come from the Council of Finance Policy, the Institute of Economics and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Now we want to create something new. We are probably not fundamentally sceptical about having another expert body, but we may not have full confidence that they are being treated properly – given what has been done after the very harsh criticism that has come from the Financial Policy Council and the Institute of Economic Affairs against the Environmental Objectives Committee's proposals. One may not have to be so conspiratorial and think that the Environmental Objectives Committee wants another expert body to review their goals. Hultberg returns to the fact that you agree so much about where you want to go. But what we do not agree on is at what price. I read that Johan Hultberg does not think it is reasonable that people in the countryside should have to pay 40 – 50 SEK liters to refuel their car and get to work, but I do not think that the entire Environmental Objectives Committee agrees on this. It is positive that the Moderates are at least setting their foot and talking about efficiency and the global perspective. More is needed in Swedish politics. At the same time, however, it is dangerous to conclude this agreement with extreme and radical parties who see the achievement of goals as something that should happen at any price, no matter what happens to our environment and no matter what happens to technological development. It is clear that we can stop all combustion of fossil fuels by making decisions here in the Swedish Parliament if we want to, but it would have terrible consequences if we did so today. The question is at what price.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-741	Madam President, I would like Last week I was in Narjan-Narjan-Mar, a small Russian town in the tundra by the Barents Sea. The city hosted the 8th Conference of Members of the Barents' Association. It is a cooperation that has been going on since the early 1990s. Every two years, Nordic and Russian parliamentarians meet to discuss important issues for this particular region. One of the themes of this year's conference was climate change and climate policy. That's why I was there. I gave a speech and led a discussion on what we are now debating: the climate policy framework and the instruments and measures needed both to stop climate change and to face it. The Barents region is one of the regions of the world that is particularly sensitive to a warmer climate. Here the temperature increases twice as fast as in the rest of the world. And when the tundra thaws, large numbers of carbon dioxide and methane are released into the atmosphere. The tundra contains more carbon than is currently stored in all trees and plants worldwide. Those are frightening facts. But climate policy is not easy. The small town of Narjan-Narjan-Mar with more than 20 000 inhabitants is built around the oil industry. Many of the people who live here, whom I met at my walks in the city, depend for their livelihood on the oil and fossil gas pumped up in the region. That there is plenty of oil and that it is cheap is clear, because in the houses ventilation is handled by having the windows open even though it is zero degrees outside. At our table at the conference, however, there was an awareness and an interest. It was great to tell you that in Sweden we have actually managed to reduce emissions. In Sweden, we have managed to agree, in a broad majority, on how to continue to speed up our climate work. This should be done with a climate policy framework, with a climate law and targets for reducing emissions both for total territorial emissions and for our country's major challenge: emissions from traffic. Madam President, I would like Introduce a climate policy framework with a climate law was the Green Party's main election promise in the 2014 elections. When we in the Environmental Objectives Committee got our mission just before Christmas 2014, we all realized that we had a hard job, many meetings and political negotiations ahead of us. But now we stand here, and seven of the eight parties in Parliament agree. Like Johan Hultberg, I am pleased and grateful that the Government's proposal is fully in accordance with the Environmental Objectives Committee's proposal. The Government and the Riksdag agree on how this government and future governments will work. This should be done with an action plan at the beginning of each parliamentary term and annual reports to the Riksdag on how the climate work goes. The law governing this, the Climate Act, shall take effect on 1 January 2018. We have also agreed on the objectives: that Sweden should not have net greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere by 2045 and then achieve negative emissions and that by 2030 we should have reduced emissions from transport, machinery, small industrial and energy installations, housing and agriculture by at least 63 per cent and by 2040 by 75 per cent. The government's policy in keeping with these objectives will be monitored and evaluated by a multidisciplinary body of experts, a Climate Policy Council. We have agreed on all of this, and it is a big one. I think we can all stretch for a while. At least I'll do it. Now is the time to stop discussing about and at what pace. Now, instead, we can concentrate on discussing how this is to be done. Madam President, I would like There we think a little differently. As a representative of the Green Party, one of the government parties, I am proud of all the climate work that has been done and is being done by our government. The reality shows that we are on the right track, although we obviously need to do more. Last year, emissions in Sweden decreased in the non-contracting sector, i.e. in the sector where the Swedish government and parliament have a direct opportunity to influence. In the transport sector, emissions decreased by 4 per cent – this is despite the increase in traffic work. It is about more renewable fuels, more charging poles and more cars powered by electricity on our roads. It is also about more money for railway maintenance and for bicycle infrastructure. This, and much more, has been introduced by our government, and all in all, it contributes to achieving the sector objective on which we are also going to decide today. It is about reducing emissions from the transport sector by at least 70% by 2030 compared to 2010. Madam President, I would like Of course, the Green Party wants to speed up the work further. We would have liked to see a more ambitious target for transport emissions by 2030. But we are now concentrating on introducing the necessary measures and instruments. This is about bonuses – malus when buying new cars, which makes it cheaper to buy environmentally better cars and more expensive to buy wasteful, thirsty car models. This concerns the reduction obligation, which will increase the share of renewables in our fuels. This concerns more state aid through climate change and the urban environment agreement. This also applies to the work on the national transport plan, which, this time, must finally put the climate first. As I said, traffic is our country's major climate challenge. Our domestic transport accounts for 30 percent of Sweden's climate emissions. If we count our flying to other countries, we're talking about about 40%. Emissions from our air travel today account for a large and growing share of our emissions. And yet they are completely exempt. If you drive a car, you have to pay carbon tax, but not if you're flying. The introduction of a flight tax is both fair and climate-smart. Madam President, I would like In Narjan-Narjan-Mar they screwed the elements at the bottom and opened the windows. In Sweden, our climate footprint is increasing even though we have energy-efficientized our houses and come from oil dependence in the heating sector. Of course, we have reduced our territorial emissions since 1990 by 25%, and with this government's climate policy we will meet our 2020 target of a 40% reduction in territorial emissions. But yours and my climate footprints are still the same. Our emissions have moved beyond Sweden's borders. Our consumption of goods made elsewhere in the world is increasing. Half of our footprints are now in other countries. We eat more meat today – cheaply imported meat with a greater climate and environmental impact than Swedish meat. We buy more clothes – cheap clothes made in Asia with great environmental impact. And we fly a lot more. We had in the Environmental Objectives Committee a mandate to consider whether we felt that an additional target should be introduced – a target for reducing emissions from our consumption. We did not agree there, but we agreed that it is up to each government to set further targets. The Green Party believes that it is important for the government to do so. Objectives and measures to achieve these objectives are important. The sustainable consumption strategy presented by our Consumer Minister, Per Bolund, is a step on the way. Madam President, I would like As has been said earlier in the debate, climate emissions from the Swedish industries are now increasing. It is worrying, even though it is an expression of Sweden's success, that the order intake for our companies is increasing and unemployment is falling. But in a sustainable society we must be able to produce things without producing carbon dioxide. If we are to achieve our target of negative emissions after 2045, our industry must also become carbon-free. Although industrial emissions are currently mainly driven by EU emissions trading, the Green Party believes that it is important for the state to take its share of the responsibility, including research money for new process technologies and other things that can remove emissions from, for example, our steel industry, which, of course, accounts for a large part of our emissions. In a transition to a circular economy, we in Sweden have a great advantage: We have a lot of renewable materials to collect from the forest. There's a lot of talk about bioeconomy today, and that's good. We must use forests in an environment- and climate-smart way. We do this by protecting our last natural forests and key biotopes and using the forest we are going to use with more non-aggressive methods. We also do this by using the biomass we get from the forest in a more climate-smart way. The smartest thing is to build more wooden houses. This allows trees to continue to be a source of coal. The production of disposable biomass products that quickly burn up and produce carbon dioxide is less climate-smart. The limited climate impact objective is one of our 16 national environmental objectives. In today's climate debate, it sometimes sounds like we would have to sacrifice the other environmental objectives in order to meet climate change, in particular the goals of Living Forests and Rich Plant and Animal Life. However, this was not something we came up with in the Environmental Objectives Committee. Instead, as stated in the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, we state that development towards a more bio-based economy must take place in a way that does not jeopardise other environmental quality objectives. That is an important and necessary starting point to remember. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to endorse the proposal in the report, with the exception of the section dealing with the government's climate work, in which I would instead like to ask for the approval of reservation 17 which we have in common with S and V.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-762	Madam President, I would like Climate change is one of today's major issues of destiny. That is why we are meeting for debate today. But this is not really a debate in the ordinary sense, because this time we are quite in agreement with the proposal that is on the table. However, there are a number of exercises from general exercise time. That is why I would like to support Amendments Nos 24 and 27. But the climate policy framework is broadly agreed in six parties. Last winter and spring we had many and long discussions about our future climate goals and how this should be governed in the Environmental Objectives Committee in the Riksdag, both the individual percentages and what the systems for monitoring and continuity should look like. The fact that the Paris Agreement was in place at the same time was, of course, good and was in line with the discussions we had. But this came as nothing from above. The work carried out in the Environmental Objectives Committee began with the Alliance Government's Climate Roadmap 2050. That roadmap was handed over as a work to the Environmental Objectives Committee, and we in the preparation took on the task of finding solutions together. It was work that led us forward because we wanted results in the preparation together, both as Members and as parties. At times, perhaps it was more despite than thanks to the government's decision that the work led forward. It is therefore sometimes a bit comical to see how some people in the government would like to take credit for things they themselves did not even experience. This was the work of the Environmental Objectives Committee. It was the members of the Environmental Target Committee and we here in the Swedish Parliament who worked through this. Let me quote from the investigation directives for the Environmental Roadmap 2050, which the Alliance Government set up. The investigator's proposal for a governance and follow-up system. The investigator shall, if appropriate, propose indicators that should be included as part of a developed follow-up system. It is appropriate that an in-depth evaluation and follow-up be carried out once per term of office. ..................................................... That's exactly what we've got on the table. That is exactly what we are going to decide on this afternoon, and that is exactly what we negotiated in the Environment Agenda. There will be order in climate policy. In exactly the same way as it was in fiscal policy under Anders Borg, it should be orderly. We shall have stable follow-up systems and periodic evaluations, and we shall know how the work will be carried out. The fact that six parties also agree on target levels is fantastic. This means that the policy of overwhelming which some have previously been involved in can be thrown into recycling. Instead, we can now discuss and debate how to move forward – whether it is aviation tax or the compulsory inclusion of biofuels for aviation that produces the best results. It is much more interesting and much more rewarding, because politics is about change and not about who promises the most in opposition. Now we can see who is doing real climate benefit. Now we can see during whose reign emissions are falling and under whose they are actually increasing. In its summary, the Environmental Objectives Committee – and seven parties signed up to this – states that Sweden will also pursue an ambitious and long-term sustainable national climate policy and be a role model for other countries, while maintaining competitiveness. These are the last words, in keeping with competitiveness, which are so incredibly important. Sweden has 0.12% of the world's population and 0.2 percent of the world's emissions. The only way for us to save the climate is to set an example, something others want to copy. We can shut down AB Sweden tomorrow, but that won't help. It will of course help a little – if we zero our 0.2 percent so that they become 0.0 helps it. But it does not help enough to achieve the ambitions of the Paris Agreement. We need to create stable rules of play that other countries want to copy and that make it possible for those who are actually going to make it. We politicians don't do it. It is companies, municipalities and, above all, private individuals who make wise choices in their everyday lives. Those choices have to be copied by others. That is why the Center Party is putting forward a series of proposals in the field of climate change. We want to give up to 100 000 SEK to anyone who chooses an environmentally smart car. We want compulsory incorporation of biofuels for aviation. We want to give more power to municipalities to control their traffic situation, and we want to encourage companies that come up with new and creative ideas that can solve difficult problems. This is where we in the Center Party differ from the government. What is so good now is that now we do not need to debate where we are going to reach or what percentage we are going to reach, but rather how we get there. This government believes that increased taxes and reduced mobility are the solution. I think exactly the opposite. I think it's the emissions we're going after. It's not the companies, it's not the solar electricity and it's definitely not that people visit each other. On the contrary, I believe that the opportunity to travel – whether it is to visit a relative in Norrbotten or to visit a pen pal on the other side of the globe – matters. Being close to other people is a prerequisite for caring about global issues. As distances decrease, emotional distances also decrease. That's why we care so little about some conflicts in other countries– they feel far away. With the reduced distances that mobility creates, proximity is also created, and it is good both for humanity and for the climate. We in Sweden will pursue as smart an environment and climate policy as we can. We'll show the way to others. Of course, we have an obligation to reduce our emissions. But the big difference we can make for the world is to show that it is possible to combine reduced emissions with increased growth. If the major emitters – China, the United States and India – are forced to choose between reduced emissions and welfare and growth, they will always choose welfare and growth. The aim is not for the state to have as large an environmental budget as possible, but for the measures to be as effective as possible. Then we can make more climate benefits with limited means and also show other and poorer countries how they can develop without destroying the environment. There is far too much talk about how good it is with expensive environmental policies, about who invests the most and can throw out the most money. There is very little talk about how much effect you have. As long as being an environmental friend means buying the more expensive food, buying the more expensive car and having the more expensive electricity bill, the environmentally conscious choices will be a luxury and a sacrifice. And then we'll never reach all the way. It is only by making it profitable for people and businesses to be environmentally friendly that we can fix this. Therefore, the costs of jobs and entrepreneurship need to be reduced and the costs of environmental degradation raised. We need a green tax shift, a tax shift that does not take more money from our taxpayers and which not only imposes charges but also encourages those who have new ideas. When it is profitable to be climate smart, companies, entrepreneurs and innovators will develop the products and services that reduce emissions. The environment and growth are not each other's opposites – quite the contrary. Only with growing companies and a business environment that encourages innovation and innovation can we solve these problems and, above all, show the world that it is not a choice to make. We can do both. That's what the Alliance government showed. We reduced emissions. And we boosted growth. This government has not been able to do that.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-781	Madam President, I would like I'll admit that I sat long and listened to Rickard Nordin and thought that this time I probably have nothing to take a line on; he talks so well. Rickard Nordin was just talking about the importance of us meeting as people and discussing. When I was in Russia last week, which I told you about in my speech, I felt the importance of sitting at the same table as Russian parliamentarians and discussing climate change and our climate law and of sharing experiences of the climate work being done in Sweden. However, I have to ask Rickard Nordin whether the best environmental policy is not determined by the fact that you have a lot of proposals when you are in opposition but that it is what you do when you are in government that is most important. Rickard Nordin said something like that. Much of what is now being carried out are things that the Center Party does not want to be involved in, such as climate change. As an old regional and municipal politician, I have longed for this since the abolition of the money from Klimp. I know how incredibly important state money is for municipalities and regions to make large investments. That is something that the Center Party does not want to support. Why does the Center Party not want that money to come out and promote charging infrastructure, biogas investments and other things in municipalities and regions? There's another thing about traveling. If I'm going to visit my friends in Germany, it costs a lot more to take the train there than to take the flight. One way to even it out is to introduce a flight tax, for example, in order to make it more economically viable to take the train. Why does the Center Party not think that when you travel by air you should pay for your climate emissions, as does when you travel by car or train?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-787	Madam President, I would like This is exactly the difference between the Green Party and the Center Party. The Green Party would like to spend as much money as possible. There is a lot of money in the Climate Klivet; Stina Bergström is right in that. But the point is, on the one hand, that they go to quite a few companies – 40 billion goes to ten companies – and, on the other hand, that the Institute of Economics itself says that it cannot guarantee that the measures had not been taken without this money. Companies get paid for things they might have done anyway. It is expensive and ineffective environmental policy. Good things happen with the Climate Tree. Charging poles are one of those things. That is why targeted instruments should be used in these cases. The Center Party spends money on charging infrastructure, to build up the high-speed chargers that are the spare tank of the electric car, but also to upload the home chargers and the destination chargers to the workplace. The climate can't stand that pointmarking. You only take the big things that are easy to count home. That's exactly the problem, those things people would have done anyway. This contributes to climate change. This is stated in the evaluations that have been carried out, both of the old money and of the new money. The Center Party simply has more accurate solutions. We're not spending money for nothing. We're going to do what gives the most results. The problem with the airline tax is that you should do what gives the most results. The investigator himself says that it is not certain that there will be any emission reductions. And even if we were to count nicely, we would be able to take half of that cost and still have the full climate effect of the aviation tax with the proposal of the Center Party to make it compulsory to include biofuels. That's the difference. We must pursue emissions, not mobility. I agree that it is too complicated and too expensive to travel by train. But then this is what you're supposed to do. A flight tax only hinders the development that aviation still needs. That's the problem. There are no simple solutions. You have to go into depth, and then we have to reset the flight, not just tax it.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-793	Madam President, I would like Me and Rickard Nordin read evaluations in different ways. When I read evaluations of Klimp, which have been properly evaluated because it went on for a longer time than the Climate Count, which has not been going on for a long time, I do not read that it has not led to any climate benefit or that those things would be done even without state aid. I know many examples of things that would never have been done in the municipalities if you had not received state aid, for example when choosing between a new digestion plant or spending money on school and care. These are expensive facilities which, however, mean a lot to us. A lot has gone to charging poles. Much has also gone to biogas initiatives. I think that's important. When it comes to biogas, there are several instruments. We also have methane reduction aid, which is important, and which this government has extended and expanded. That's great. When it comes to emissions from both air and road traffic, a great deal of money must obviously be spent on the alternatives – on rail and on public transport. But we must also ensure that each mode of transport bears the cost of climate change. We are rather careful about this with regard to other climate and environmental policies. Anyone who pollutes will also pay for it. But it has historically been an exception in the case of aviation. Many other EU countries have already introduced a flight tax. It would be strange if we in Sweden, which is a climate for many countries, should not also go down that road to reducing emissions from aviation.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-797	Madam President, I would like Of course money is useful. Otherwise, they would not have received any money at all. However, according to the evaluations, many measures had been taken anyway. Then it does not matter very much that Stina Bergström can mention some measures that have been taken thanks to Klimp money and other things. That's anecdotal evidence. You have to go to the evaluations. I am sure I can also list a number of things that could have received money in different ways. Stina Bergström talks about state aid, but I am talking about creating markets, about making it profitable to make the right choice. There is the fundamental difference between the Center Party and the Green Party. I know that the only way to make this work in the long term is for it to be easy to make the right choice, not for the state to go in and pay for it. The aircraft must bear its environmental costs. That's where Stina Bergström and I are in complete agreement. But the airline tax is only levied as a passenger fee. There are no incentives whatsoever to make aircraft more efficient, to involve more biofuels and so on. If you take all the money that aviation tax will cost businesses and spend it on buying biofuels instead, you would get a double benefit from climate change. One would reduce emissions by twice as much if one lets the aircraft do it that way, instead of the government pulling in money. That's the thing here. They want to withdraw money to Magdalena Andersson's cash register, to make expensive and unnecessary reforms. That's the difference. This is where the green tax exchange has to go. Tax on jobs and entrepreneurship must be reduced. You have to make sure to do the things that have an effect. Biofuels in aviation have a much greater effect. You get more climate benefit for the money. And it's a little harder. It's not as sexy. When Stina Bergström says that many EU countries have introduced air tax, she forgets to tell us that quite a few of them have also abolished it, because it does not work. That's what the investigator himself says about the airline tax. That's why the Center Party is against it.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-802	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that our parties at least agree a little on the criticism of government policy. It is also gratifying that Rickard Nordin refers to the Konjunkturinstitutet's cutting of the money to municipalities and county councils. However, it is a bit sad that Rickard Nordin did not listen more to the Institute of Economic Development when it came to the work of the Environmental Objectives Committee and what the Institute of Economics said about sectoral targets in climate policy and in particular targets for a fossil-free vehicle fleet. We also agree to work globally to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We certainly also agree that the problems in the world are very much due to the enormous demand for energy. One must then try to find ways to buy the right energy. The IPCC has concluded that nuclear power is an important part of future work. Many Swedish researchers have also suggested that we in Sweden should invest more in nuclear energy and that we should invest in a research reactor. Even Lennart Bengtsson, the most qualified climate researcher in Sweden, has proposed the same thing, that we should invest in a research reactor and try to export the new technology with safer, cheaper and more environmentally friendly nuclear power that provides significantly less waste. You should also be able to take advantage of the waste that otherwise needs to be buried. My question is: why does the Center Party not want to invest in a research reactor for new, modern nuclear power?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-806	Madam President, I would like Those who work with entrepreneurship, innovation and research and want to export energy know that one of the most important foundations is a stable home market. It is a huge financial commitment to invest in a research reactor like ESS in Lund and other major research efforts. Look at the cost of new nuclear power in Britain, for example! They are more than twice as high as for the production of land-based wind, now offshore wind and solar energy. There is simply no economic profitability in this, especially in Sweden. That we should invest in research and a technology– which we intend to export – which we ourselves will not benefit from, I think is simply a bad deal. It is bad for Sweden except for all safety aspects. We can put it aside. There are many problems with nuclear power, but it is not profitable, especially in Sweden. There may be applications and places in other countries where there is no alternative. But let these countries develop nuclear power! Let us invest in what matters in Sweden and that we can develop in other countries! That's where we're gonna put our focus and our money. We're going to spend the money on biofuels, biomass and bioenergy. When it comes to electricity, we will spend the money on things like wind power, where we have a competitive advantage and get profitable electricity for our base industry. After all, the last thing the industry wants is expensive nuclear power that will lock its energy prices for 60-80 years to come, while technological developments will bring down marginal prices. There is a reason why they did not want to invest in the reactor that they were considering building. Nobody wants to build a reactor in Sweden today. Then researching a new reactor feels incredibly remote.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-810	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to hear that Rickard Nordin believes that he knows much more than all researchers and experts in the field know and what the IPCC thinks should be invested in global climate policy. The fact that we are not trying to build new nuclear power today is not surprising. There is an environmental party in the Red Green Government that absolutely does not want to build nuclear power. In the second, bourgeois, constellation is the Center Party, which is also extremely anti-nuclear. Any energy company understands that there is no stability. It is a very uncertain market where one cannot rely on the rules of the game. We have enormous opportunities in Sweden. We have technology, knowledge and infrastructure ready to do this. The Alliance government was about to launch the project, despite the views of the Center Party. Unfortunately, it has now been put on ice. Sun and wind are not the alternative today. You have to have something to regulate your power with. That's why coal is so popular. It is cheap to build coal power plants, it is cheap to buy in and it is easy to start and shut down production when needed. That is why nuclear power is such a much better option. We have a nuclear anti-nuclear party in one constellation and a nuclear anti-nuclear party in the other constellation. This is something that needs to be changed in Swedish politics if we are to be able to cope with our competitiveness in the future.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-814	Madam President, I would like When it comes to long-term stability in energy policy, few countries have had such stable rules of play as Sweden. There was an energy agreement within the Alliance in 2009. It was confirmed by three alliance parties and the government in 2016. It is permitted – even politically – to build new nuclear reactors if you like. Few countries have such great political stability in the energy market as Sweden, as is the case with investors. They say that they know what is and what is to come. This is why lower margins are needed for investments in Sweden compared to many other countries. If you are going to build nuclear power, you also know that it is on market terms. Then nobody's interested. There has never ever been a nuclear power plant built on a market-based basis anywhere in the world, nor in Sweden. What Martin Kinnunen forgets when he talks about regulatory power is that we in Sweden do not use nuclear power to regulate sun and wind. Nuclear power doesn't work like that. It's like a kind of base at the bottom. What Martin Kinnunen forgets above all is the fantastic resource that we have in Sweden, H 2 O. It is our hydropower that is perhaps one of the most threatened power teams at the moment, given how county boards have developed in small-scale hydropower. That is why it is incredibly important for the Center Party to protect hydropower, both large-scale and small-scale. It is so important for the Swedish power system. It's the hydropower we have control power for. It allows you to mate in different ways. It also allows us to help other countries to mate and, together with Norway in particular, to export electricity. It's incredibly important. The point is that it is permitted to build nuclear power. Mattias Karlsson can pull his financiers together and do it if he wants to. It's okay to build a research reactor too, but don't do it with state funds! It's a bad deal. Obviously, companies do not want a research reactor, because then they would already have built one.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-819	Madam President, I would like The climate issue is the survival issue of our time. We in Sweden have a particularly important responsibility in this matter. We know that if everyone lived as we Swedes do, we would need at least three more globes, and we do not. The effects of climate change are already evident in the southern part of the globe. There have been severe floods in Bangladesh, extreme heat in sub-Saharan Africa and millions of refugees have been produced in the Middle East. This is basically also a consequence of climate change and the tensions, conflicts and wars it brings. What we are debating and deciding on today, we are doing for the poor people of the South who are suffering climate change here and now. We are also doing it for our children, for future generations who will inherit the society that we have built. Our children and young people are particularly committed to the climate issue. In opinion polls after opinion polls we can see that the climate issue is the issue that most engages today's young people. The climate issue keeps our children and young people awake at night. They're worried. They have a lump in their stomach. For their sake, we must take responsibility and do more. In times when we adult politicians talk less and less about the climate issue, we know that the Swedish people are deeply concerned about climate change. We last saw it in the SOM survey from the University of Gothenburg. In it, the climate issue was at the top of the concerns of the Swedish people. It ranks higher than military attacks, epidemics, crime, the threat from Russia or anything else. Today we are going to decide on a new and unique climate law for Sweden and a climate policy framework, and this is important. The decision has great support from the Swedish people and within our parties. As has been mentioned before, it is a matter of setting a long-term target of near-zero emissions by 2045 at the latest. We in the Left Party wanted this to be achieved sooner, but we think it was a reasonable compromise. There is one point to the fact that at least seven of the eight parties in the Swedish Parliament are behind this. Sweden is now receiving its first climate law that introduces a system of mandatory annual climate reports and that a long-term climate action plan must be adopted at the beginning of each new term of office. From next year on, we will have an independent climate policy council to ensure that all policy areas work towards achieving climate objectives. It is no longer possible to do as before when environmental and climate policymakers made good decisions and politicians from, for example, finance, housing or transport could then make decisions that went completely in the opposite direction. Instead, all policy areas need to take climate responsibility and move in the same direction. All this is good, and we in the Left Party are behind it. On the other hand, we believe that certain proposals in the report and in the Government proposal do not reach all the way. This applies, for example, to the sectoral target for the transport sector. I regret that you, who are going to vote in favour of this particular part, are not proposing a more ambitious target than a 70% reduction in emissions by 2030. This actually means a reduction in the level of ambition if we look at what we have previously had to strive for, namely the 80% reduction proposal that came from the study on a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. The study also concluded that emissions can be reduced by 90% by 2030. The full technological potential is available. I therefore believe that the objective of the transport sector is a missed opportunity in this context, and the Left Party refers to it in reservation No 3. We want a more ambitious objective. The Left also regrets that no separate target is proposed for consumption-related emissions. We in Sweden tend to be proud that we have been good at reducing our emissions in recent decades. But what is it worth when, as a direct result of our consumption, emissions in other countries are growing rapidly? This is about emissions from our consumption, and unfortunately the government does not propose a separate target in the bill. It can apply to all the gadgets that we consume and that are made in other countries. It can also apply to emissions from international flights or our increasing consumption of meat. Each of the sectors of international aviation and meat accounts for almost as much climate impact as Sweden's 4.5 million passenger cars. Today, these emissions are not visible. Concrete instruments are lacking and, above all, we do not have concrete targets for reducing these emissions. We need a separate target for consumption-related emissions. I read in Svenska Dagbladet about a broad call from Organisationsverige. From the environmental movement to the Swedish Farmers' Federation and a number of aid organisations want this. That we should have a separate target for consumption-related emissions has also been proposed by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, as well as by the Government's working group on green conversion. Unfortunately, I believe that when there is no target for a sector as large as consumption-related emissions, it will be much like an orienteer without a map. You run, you run, you run, you run, you run, you run, you run, you run, you run, you run, you run, you run, you run, you run, you run, you run, you run, you run, you Unfortunately, we will continue to grope in the dark if we do not set concrete targets for how and when these emissions are to be reduced. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to tell you that there was actually a consensus on these two areas. When we negotiated in the Environment Agenda, there was a more ambitious target for the transport sector and a proposal for a complementary target for consumption emissions. All seven parties agreed on this until the end. Then, however, a party chose to stand outside: the Moderates. As a result, there was no sharper target for the transport sector and there was no additional target for consumption. Johan Hultberg believes that the Left Party's reservations in this area, Nos 3 and 4, are an attempt to profile its own politics. I believe, however, that we take responsibility for the climate. Now, however, things turned out the way they did. The party that wanted the least, the Moderates, had to set the level of ambition. This is deeply regrettable. I would like to address Isabella Lövin and emphasise that the Environmental Objectives Committee stated that it is open to any government to make proposals in this area. The government can make a supplementary proposal on consumption-related emissions when it wishes to do so. I very much hope that the government will. The climate issue points to something else in politics, namely how we conduct politics. The climate issue puts more emphasis than anything else on the fact that this is something we need to resolve together. For too long, the responsibility for solving these major issues has been rolled over to the market and individual consumers. However, I do not believe that there is any invisible hand on the market that will save the climate. As individual consumers, we are quite lonely when we stand in the store and try to save the planet. We therefore need more common solutions to save the climate. We need to do this together. All policy areas must take responsibility for transforming Sweden into a social and ecological society. For example, we need to invest massively in things that change in public transport, in the railways and in sustainable housing. We need to switch to 100% renewable energy, sustainable food, climate adaptation and so on. I'm raising investments because they're important. Compared to the time after the Second World War, we invest in Sweden much less today than then. We also invest to a large extent in things that lead to increased emissions. How, for example, can we allow us to invest far more in the construction of new roads than in rail? I hope that with the climate policy framework and the climate law, we will focus on such things so that investment policy is moving in the right direction. I also hope that we will have a complete economic policy that will change Sweden to a much greater extent. Taxes on things that pollute are good, especially when the revenue goes to things that change. What pollutes our environment should be banned or at least punished with taxes and charges. Environmentally harmful subsidies must be removed. High-income people's life - style with air travel, SUVs, London or New York shopping weekends must be problematized and limited. Justice and an effective climate policy go hand in hand. Basically, it is also a question of talking about an objective which, in my view, we are talking too little about: the generational objective. It is about handing over a society where the major environmental problems are solved without creating new problems beyond Sweden's borders. We still have a lot to do there. Madam President, I would like I support all the reservations of the Left Party, but I would like to conclude by calling in particular for the approval of Amendment No 4.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-844	Madam President, I would like I wasn't really going to ask for a line at Jens Holm, but when he spreads direct lies I still feel compelled to do it. The environmental objectives were characterised by a constructive discussion and a climate in which it was a rewarding and taking and where we made a real effort to try to listen to each other's arguments and entry values and find landing zones. Some parties argued with soul and heart that we would have sector goals for the most part. Other parties, including mine, were more critical. We finally landed in a compromise on a very ambitious target for the transport sector. This is not the objective that the FFF investigation discussed, but a broader objective. It is about domestic transport as a whole, which also includes, for example, domestic shipping. What Jens Holm does is a little bit to compare apples and pears. The Moderates will never contribute to objectives that we do not have the opportunity to pursue a good policy to achieve. We have very limited advice when it comes to achieving reductions in emissions due to our consumption. Rather, we need to put pressure on China, for example, to tighten up its climate policy and introduce tougher environmental regulations in order to improve production. I don't believe in climate tariffs. I do not believe in banning people from buying certain products. On the other hand, I believe in the market. Jens Holm says that the market will not solve this. Nevertheless, I think it is interesting to see that India has now decided not to invest in new coal power plants corresponding to all the coal emissions that Britain has. The reason is that the price of solar energy has fallen so much. We need more confidence in the market, Jens Holm, and in many cases less regulation.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-848	Madam President, I would like I had not actually intended to address our internal discussions in the Environment Objectives Committee, but it was Johan Hultberg who opened Pandora's box in his speech by talking about the Left Party choosing to write reservations to profile its own policy. I thought that was a rather incorrect description of the reality of the way in which the negotiations for environmental objectives were conducted, in which we actually had a broad consensus on the importance of having a more ambitious target for the transport sector and that we should also deal with consumption-related emissions. As I recall, Johan Hultberg was also present during those discussions right up to the end. Then things turned out the way they did. I do not think it is directly comparing apples and pears to talk about emissions from road transport plus domestic shipping, because domestic shipping accounts for such an incredibly marginal share of total emissions from the transport sector, if we are to be completely honest, Johan Hultberg. In the past, we had a broad consensus on reducing emissions from the road transport sector by at least 80% by 2030. What is proposed in this report is minus 70 for the transport sector, of which domestic shipping is the new component. I'd guess that's a maximum of 2% of the total. When new proposals are put forward after new studies have arrived and when we see how serious the climate is, I want us to take climate policy forward, not backwards. That is why it has been so important for the Left Party to stand up for responsibility in climate policy.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-851	Madam President, I would like I do not think that the Left Party really stands up and takes responsibility in climate policy when they choose to try to sing with the angels and say that they want a little more than everyone else and therefore reserve themselves. Of course, all parties had to give and take part in the Environmental Objectives Committee. There were probably reasons for all parties to leave one, two or three reservations. I think all parties find details in the proposal that they are not very happy about. I believe that all parties have parts which they wish would have been included in the proposal but which do not. But all the other parties in the Environmental Objectives Committee felt that unity and the whole was more important than party-tactical considerations. The Left party obviously made a different assessment, which I regret. Madam President, I would like The overall goal is to reduce Sweden's emissions. That's what matters. We have an ambitious objective of this kind for 2045, with a concrete milestone on the way there. As far as emission reductions are concerned, then primarily in the transport sector, in the agricultural sector or in the trading sector, I think that it is important that there is some flexibility. At the same time, we Moderates see very clearly that the transport sector is the biggest challenge from a strictly national climate perspective. It accounts for one third of Swedish emissions, and that is where we have the large emissions that lie outside the trading sector. At the time we thought it was reasonable and important to give the industry long-term and clear information about the direction. That is why we supported a specific sector objective. We have to remember, Jens Holm, that there was previously an investigation that defined what one could consider to be fossil independent. Now we have a sharp target. There's a very big difference.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-855	Madam President, I would like The fact that this has been a process in which we parties have given and taken is quite obvious. As I said in my main speech, we in the Left Party wanted a more ambitious target of zero emissions. We wanted zero emissions by 2040. We also wanted it to be without so-called flexible mechanisms. Now it was 2045, with the possibility of certain such mechanisms. It's probably the first time we've agreed to such a goal, so I really think that was going very far. Madam President, I would like However, what I think is important in this context is that we now have a broad proposal for a long-term target for zero emissions in Sweden, which I hope will be voted through later today. We will have Sweden's first climate law. We will set up a Climate Policy Council to work for all policy areas to work towards achieving climate goals. It's not bad. Then there are some things that we like a little bit different about, and we should continue to discuss them. I'm looking forward to that.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-857	Madam President, I would like I can begin by agreeing with everyone's thanks, because I was part of the Environmental Objectives Committee. However, I will refrain from listing names. It's easy to forget someone. I have a small comment to make on the discussion that was held just now. The environmental goal preparation was very constructive. In some situations we had some conclusions, but in the end it was the landing in a common vision that became the important thing. I have no further comments on that. Madam President, I would like I would like to call for the approval of two parts of the so-called climate policy framework included in this bill. It is about the ambitious objectives and a new so-called climate law. I also call for the approval of Amendment No 25, which deals with long-term instruments for biofuels. Of course, I also support the other reservations with which the Liberals are involved, as well as, of course, those parts of the report that we have no objection to. The climate policy framework is a Swedish phenomenon, but it is very easy to become global when you talk about the climate. About a month ago we had a special debate on the climate. The great starting point I felt was the changes that have taken place in the Arctic, not least the extremely high temperatures measured during the winter in some places in the Arctic. They were historically high and went in no way to compare with what had happened before. So it was not about weather but about real changes. If I may continue to be a little personal, I can say that since then I have had the privilege of both being in Greenland with the Arctic Parliamentary Committee and being a member of the Swedish delegation at the New York Maritime Conference. The more you get into this, the more you see that everything is connected. Climate change will ultimately have consequences in most areas in one way or another. What made the most impression in Greenland was when we approached the ice sheet and were met by the sand and gravel embankment that the ice sheet had pressed in front of it. We could then discover that the ice was not behind that dike but perhaps a kilometer away. It wasn't because of any summer melting. It hadn't even started. So this is incredibly obvious. If I link the maritime conference to the Arctic, it is an interesting observation that there was really very little talk about the Arctic. There was a Swedish-initiated seminar on the Arctic. My impression is that what is happening in the Arctic does not stop in the Arctic. It has been mentioned earlier in the debate that the water melting in Greenland does not stop around Greenland but ends up in the southern hemisphere of Bangladesh, Thailand and elsewhere. It depends on gravity. If Greenland loses its ice, there will be a massive increase in land, so it will never be affected locally. Another very central connection to the sea is acidification of the sea. The sea has been our big buffer and maybe rescue so far. We are talking about increased levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. The other side of the coin besides the rise in temperature is the massive acidification of our oceans. There was a number mentioned. I don't think it was 25 million years ago. I don't think you can really see back in time. I'd say it's never been so grumpy. Madam President, I would like There is much to be said about this. The reasons for discussing the issue are quite clear. If we focus on today's topic, a climate policy framework for Sweden, I can agree with much of what Johan Hultberg described about the work in the Environmental Objectives Committee. A climate policy framework does not really have any intrinsic value. The value is that it will be an important tool to fulfil Sweden's part of the Paris Agreement. The new clarification that is now being made regarding limited climate impact seems to be almost the only thing that we all agree on is relevant. It is about limiting the temperature rise to well below two degrees and making efforts to get us under one and a half degrees. On the Liberal side, I want to be very clear that what I see as the strength of the framework is the whole. It will be very easy to emphasise climate laws, goals and such things. We have both goals and a system to follow up. We will eventually have a climate policy council that also has its values, and I will come back to that later. The great value of the unity that the Environmental Objectives Committee managed to achieve is that we create long-termness and predictability over time. It is just as has been said here before. What really creates the conditions for economic growth is that one knows what is going on. We can discuss the market. But the market is very good with predictability. That is when the new business ideas come into being. Madam President, I would like The central part of the climate policy framework we believe from the Liberals is the very ambitious objectives: Net zero emissions in 2045 and clear milestone targets. There is an interim target of 70% emission reduction for domestic transport by 2030 compared to 2010. Now we have discussed flights a lot today. When we set that target, we noted that aviation belongs to the emissions trading system, so it is not included in this. If the targets are set, there are reservations from SD and V that draw in to say the least different directions. I think it feels like the Swedish Democrats are not really taking it seriously. They have a reality statement. But you have to analyze and see what the consequences are. We can always discuss whether it is party political tactics. We in the Liberals count backwards and see how ambitious goals we must have to move forward while the Left Party tends to always be slightly higher. Then I've expressed myself neutrally and nicely. Madam President, I would like The latter objective for domestic transport will indeed be the major challenge in the near future. They account for 30% of emissions. That is, of course, where we can make the big and perhaps fast clips in a way. Such an ambitious and clear objective is a clear signal to all involved that technology shifts are needed. It will not happen by itself, but it will require real technological shifts. It concerns electrification of the passenger car fleet and the transfer of goods to rail and maritime transport. We will discuss maritime issues in this House tomorrow. This debate will be marked by the issue of the competitiveness of maritime transport and the creation of a regulatory framework for inland waterway transport designed to make real use of the potential. As mentioned earlier today, the emissions of inland waterway transport are very small. But it is not a good thing that they are so small, because they could be used much better. It also concerns the development of biofuels. We in the Liberals have stated that even with the transfer to rail and shipping we will have heavy traffic left. Biofuels must be devolved and prioritised. Aviation has also been discussed here. We see from our side that a reduction obligation for aviation fuels is a clear way forward. There is an announcement that we clearly support. The economic instruments that are being introduced must be carefully analysed so that they are cost-effective and do not risk growth and competitiveness, but actually become an asset for us, give birth to new business ideas and so on. Madam President, I would like From the perspective of the Liberals, we give priority to environmental and climate policy on the basis of cost-effective economic instruments and the fundamental principle that the polluter should pay. The draft budgets we have submitted in recent years contain a series of clear economic instruments which are precisely based on this. Now, if we talk about who is spending the most budgetary resources, we have worked much more on the tax tables and much less on state subsidies and subsidies. It can be said that the liberals' clear green tax exchange is indeed in the tax tables. There are other basic conditions that we also discussed in the Environmental Objectives Committee. We must work there internationally and within the European Union. A basic condition for us to get anywhere near achieving net zero emissions in 2045 is that the EU emissions trading system works, is tightened up and reviewed so that the emissions targets in that part can be met on the basis of the Paris Agreement. It is very important there what policy we are pursuing. There must be real reductions in emissions and not a redistribution of CO2 emissions globally, which we tend to call carbon leakage. Madam President, I would like I shall conclude my speech. The other parts of the framework are about a new climate law. It's been described here, so I don't have to do that any more. I see this as a complement to the objectives. The government gets a tool. It is clear when to follow up and make action plans. It will be a formalization of the government's work. It can be of great value. As far as the Climate Policy Council is concerned, it is important and crucial that it is interdisciplinaryly independent. I would like to conclude by saying that the fact that Sweden takes precedence has been discussed. Sweden should go ahead and show the way. At the end of the day, research and technological development will bring us benefits in terms of economic growth as well. I look forward with confidence to that. The climate policy framework will ultimately be an asset for Sweden.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-885	Madam President, I would like We have heard a lot about how friendly and comradely it seems to have been in the Mi ljömålsföreningen. It is almost that you get a little sad in the eye by not having received your own invitation. For the sake of fact, I would like to point out that the reason why the Swedish Democrats were not part of the Environmental Objectives Committee was that we were not actually invited to it. Madam President, I would like I was going to ask Lars Tysklind a little bit about Isabella Lövin's proposal on the Climate Act, which the Liberals have supported. The Council saw this proposal at the ankle bumps and considered it unnecessary and ineffective. There is no need for legislation, it is said, and there are no arguments in the proposal for legislation to strengthen future efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. My question to Lars Tysklind is simply: Why have the Liberals supported this proposal that the Law Council has sawn at the ankle bumps? Why is the Law Council with all its legal experts wrong in its legal analysis?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-889	Madam President, I would like It's nice that Martin Kinnunen would have liked to have been there. We had tough negotiations, but basically there was great respect for each other's views, and that is why we managed to land in the way we did. As regards the Climate Act, we also discussed in the Environmental Objectives Committee what legal value it has and what sanctions there are. We noted that one cannot put a government that does not run this into prison, but it is a law that is norm-making, and there is a morality in agreeing on this. You might as well have written it in an agreement, but now it's written as a law. We may have valued it a little differently, but we believe from the Liberals that the value is that we get a clear description of how the government should work and what time intervals should apply. It is about the parliament being involved annually in the budget bill. We had a discussion about it, and now it will be part of the regular budget work. It could have a value. Each term of office should also have an action plan forward where there is a description of what things to evaluate and go back to and then show the steps forward to achieve the goals. There are certainly good arguments for sawing the proposal at the ankles, but this law has a different purpose, and there is a lot of policy and a lot of standard-setting in this.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-893	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Lars Tysklind! I was going to talk about another part of this bill from Isabella Lövin. There are milestones in 2030 and 2040, and there is talk of accompanying measures. This is something that the Alliance often talks about, and I think it is positive that in Swedish politics there is a voice that highlights the global perspective, i.e. that it is actually about saving the world. We do not save Sweden, but it does not matter where the greenhouse gases are released because they are mixed up in the atmosphere. It simply does not matter whether emissions come from here or elsewhere. Measures can be discussed elsewhere, but, as a matter of principle, complementary measures are good, as they can reduce emissions at the lowest possible cost, since reductions are equally beneficial regardless of where in the world they are done. This legislative proposal clearly states that while the accompanying measures should be allowed, they should be limited. Why do the Liberals think it is a good proposal that we should limit the accompanying measures? Is it nicer to take measures in Sweden that cost a lot of money than to take measures elsewhere that cost less money? Is there any real value in paying more to reduce emissions in one place than in reducing them elsewhere? It feels a little backwards if it is now the Paris agreement's goal to reduce emissions globally that we will work towards. Why, then, should we make a difference as to where emissions are reduced?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-896	Madam President, I would like If we take the global perspective and talk about the time up to 2050, you can always discuss the way there and where to start and so on. We have net zero emissions as a target for 2045 in Sweden. One can have as an argument that Sweden cannot work on this alone, but we must assume that all other countries are also working on this. It is because of this that flexibility falls the closer you get to the goal. At the end of the day, all countries must have come to some kind of net zero emission thinking. Otherwise, the objectives of the Paris Agreement will not be met. By 2030, the target is 63% reduction, and then it is 8% flexibility. In 2040 it is 75% reduction, and then it is 2% flexibility. But when we reach 2045, the target is net zero emissions, and then we're talking about Sweden. In the net zero emission target, we have 85% emission reduction, and then there is 15% left that we still have to compensate in some way. Then it is perhaps about CCS or bio-CCS, i.e. that you capture the carbon dioxide and store it in the bedrock. These may also include accompanying measures such as working with agriculture and also internationally. I have mentioned many times that we also have the forest as such in Sweden. We will never achieve zero emissions, but we will also have to have accompanying measures in 2045.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-899	Madam President, I would like The report also contains a great deal of claims and reservations from the Christian Democrats, which I naturally support, but for time to come I only ask for reservation 8 that Sweden should be an example in climate policy and for the Alliance's reservation 27 on biofuels. Madam President, I would like I would like to begin my speech by thanking you for the good work that has been done in the Environmental Objectives Committee, which has produced the very basis for the climate policy framework. It is gratifying that there is a broad parliamentary consensus in the Swedish Parliament on the seriousness of the climate issue and on measures to meet this threat. Not least now, when international efforts to curb climate change are being called into question by the President of the United States, it is particularly important that we can point to broad political commitment to Swedish politics. It is of great importance that Sweden is now active in preventing more countries from going in the wrong direction. The Christian Democrats have always had sustainability issues close to their hearts. In our ideology, the idea of stewardship or the principle of stewardship is a fundamental principle which states that we should not consume or destroy our resources but manage them. Therefore, it is not acceptable to over-consume in order to hand over an environmental debt to future generations. Madam President, I would like There was a time when it was discussed whether it was possible at all to observe the climate changes predicted as a result of the combustion of fossil fuels. Today there is no doubt that we are now seeing these changes. One example is how the calvings from the glacier at the Greenlandic community Ilulissat have increased so sharply in the last ten years that the icebergs block the entrance to the port and make it difficult for the inhabitants of Greenland's third largest urban area to access supplies. The glacier apparently emits ice to the sea every day in a volume equivalent to the amount of water used by New York City in a whole year. This is therefore happening every day in Greenland. At the same time, polar bears show ever more visible signs of starvation during the summer months, when the ice cap is at its lowest. The polar bears hunt their food on a smaller and smaller ice sheet around Svalbard. The ice is a prerequisite for the polar bear's hunting, and it is melting at a rapid rate. According to the World Economic Forum's 2017 Risk Report, four of the five global risks that top the list are linked to the climate issue. These risks affect our economic growth and the stability of our welfare. The climate issue is a matter of justice that is strongly linked to the world's economic and political situation. Mr President, I would like to The climate challenge is highly global. It is therefore important to stick to the Paris Agreement and build on it at the same time. The commitments made by the countries of the world prior to the conclusion of the Paris Agreement are far from sufficient to reach the two-degree target, much less the 1.5 degrees to be achieved. In the forthcoming negotiations, therefore, it is important to put pressure on countries to update their plans to make them realistic and compatible with the common objective. Sweden can help to create optimism and be an example by showing that it is possible to combine low emissions with good economic development. There is no contradiction between reducing climate emissions and economic growth, on the contrary. We heard earlier about this with green tax exchange, which is extremely interesting and which we Christian Democrats have been pushing for a very long time. We have a moral responsibility to help and support the poor countries on their path to sustainable development. It is positive that the government continues to build on the support, initiated by the Alliance Government, for the Green Climate Fund. It was launched to help developing countries develop in a sustainable way. The wealthier countries need to give priority to the mobilisation of funds for the Fund in order for developing countries to contribute to the jointly agreed climate goals. Mr President, I would like to Dependence on fossil fuels is both a burden on the environment and a safety policy risk. European dependence on Russian gas contributes both to CO2 emissions and to instability. It is important that Sweden continues to push for the EU to be a global example of climate and environmental policy. As climate change is a global problem, the design of the EU ETS must not lead to a reduction in emissions within the Union but re-emerge elsewhere on the planet. Mr President, I would like to For Sweden, the transport sector is the biggest challenge for breaking fossil dependence; several speakers have pointed this out here today. Clear and powerful policy instruments are needed that create both technology development and implementation in our daily consumption. The government within the EU should promote long-term and technology-neutral instruments, which reward biofuels with high climate benefits, and work to increase the rate of transition from fossil to renewable in the transport sector. The environmental target committee's proposal means that greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport will be reduced by at least 70 per cent between 2010 and 2030. This requires innovation and innovation, research and development and, not least, long-term rules of play for the automotive industry. The Christian Democrats, like the rest of the Alliance, believe that all raw materials suitable for the production of biofuels should be covered by national instruments. In order to switch from fossil to bio-based fuels, the government must ensure that the EU accepts that we can continue to apply tax exemptions for biofuels beyond 2018. An important part of the work on a fossil-independent vehicle fleet is the introduction of a so-called bonus – malus system. The Christian Democrats have been and are driving such a system, and we would have liked it to have already been in place. The system should be designed in a smart and clear way so that we, as individual car buyers, can easily understand the consequences both for the environment and for the wallet. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's entrepreneurs play a crucial role in the development of climate neutrality. Many entrepreneurs have already realised that their survival as a company is based on being at the forefront. We have companies with high sustainability goals, where innovation is a driving force that also contributes to increased profitability. Companies know that sustainability and environmental awareness contribute to business benefits. This is particularly interesting to note. A good example is the Haga initiative, which is a network for the environment driven by companies. They have agreed that the included companies will be fossil-free by 2030. If they succeed, they will reach zero emissions 15 years earlier than Sweden as a whole. Technology exists, knowledge exists, and the will of these companies also exists. Now politics must not be allowed to trot patrols, but, on the contrary, must clearly support development. We see with today's decision that there are such ambitions and plans. By using Swedish-made steel, which is mostly made of recycled material, carbon dioxide emissions are reduced by 90 per cent. Even with a very high degree of re-use, there is a strong demand for iron ore globally. Here it is possible to cut CO2 emissions significantly by switching instead of carbon to hydrogen as a reducing agent in iron production. Here is an opportunity to put Sweden at the forefront when it comes to climate neutral iron production. Mr President, I would like to The consensus that politicians in different parties have shown in the work of the Environmental Objectives Committee sends important signals to companies and municipalities. And it is also an important signal to the outside world. Let us all help to leave behind a planet with space for both polar bears and growth companies!
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-922	Mr President, I would like to Lars-Lars-Axel brought up Greenland, and I think it was the Ilulissate glacier you were talking about. Ilulissat is a city north of the capital Nuuk on the west coast of Greenland. I was there myself ten years ago, and it is really scary to see the incredibly rapid melting of the inland ice and the world's largest glacier taking place. We can continue to talk about this on another occasion. Now I would like to talk about something that not many have talked about yet. This report contains an announcement, a contribution, from the bourgeois parties, together with the Swedish Democrats, to the government. The report states that climate policy should be pursued in such a way as to reconcile greenhouse gas emissions with growth. We in the Left Party, along with the S and MP, thought this was an unfortunate formulation, so we are not behind it. I wonder what growth means in this context, Lars-Lars-Axel. You speak very nicely that we must care for all creation, perhaps one can say to a Christian Democrat. At the same time, we know that there can be increased growth if there is a major forest fire or oil spill in the Baltic Sea. This leads to increased growth, but at the cost of impoverishing the environment. It sounds like you are saying with this announcement that we can only reduce emissions as long as growth increases. Had you talked about sustainable economic development, I would have been fully involved, but now I have to ask Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell and the Christian Democrats: Do you mean that growth should be superior to environmental considerations? What does growth mean in this context?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-927	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question! Yes, we have this announcement, and we want to be clear that we want to achieve this. We think, as I said in my speech, that there is really no schism between these parts today. In the past, there has been talk of the need to choose either economic growth or a better environment. But now – I also wanted to say this when I told you about what is being done in, for example, the Haga initiative – you can see that there are benefits and that it is not just about what the government is doing by spending various project money. It is about finding a sustainable system that leads to this. It should not be at the expense of economic growth, but this can be reconciled. That is what we Christian Democrats mean in any case when we make this announcement together with the rest of the Alliance.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-929	Mr President, I would like to But let's say that we get increased growth and increased economic activity because an oil tanker capsizes the Baltic Sea or it becomes a big forest fire that drives the economy in a sense! Do the Christian Democrats really think that growth in this context, when we talk about reducing emissions and saving the planet, is the appropriate concept to stick to the climate goals? Or do the Christian Democrats believe that growth in this context should not be interpreted as an economic activity that impoverishes the environment? I think it would be good to have it specified.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-930	Mr President, I would like to Then I can reassure Jens Holm by saying that this is not what it is about: the activity that arises from bad things happening – accidents or ships capsized – that require a lot of public and state intervention. That's not the kind of growth we're talking about. Here it is a question of achieving a welfare society with quality of life. We have had discussions over this concept of welfare for many years. For me, it is very much about quality of life. That is the growth that we want to pursue.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-931	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Lars-Axel Nordell for a very good speech and to welcome Mr Lars-Lars-Axel to the climate debate. It was not Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell who was in the Environmental Objectives Committee. It was Irene Oskarsson who did it with that honor. I would like to ask a question in connection with the committee's position on national climate action, that is, the part of this report that we are opposed to on the part of the government. What you are criticising is that the government has chosen to extend climate change and increase the funding without the programme having been evaluated. Then it says: At the same time, the rate of greenhouse gas emission reductions has slowed down. But now the climate life has actually been calculated. We see that we will have large reductions in emissions. It reduces by 1.5 million tonnes of carbon dioxide. This is 3% of Sweden's emissions. That is 40% of the emissions we have from heating our homes and premises. These aren't little bits. But this is something that the Christian Democrats do not think we should invest in. There's a lot of this money going to business. I heard Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell talk in his speech about the importance of supporting entrepreneurs in their climate work. I myself have made a lot of visits to companies in Värmland that have made important investments in energy efficiency. I know that it is a well-known brewery in the constituency of Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell, Örebro, which has received subsidies for this.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-936	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the question. The announcement contains some parts. The climate life is part of it. Rickard Nordin has already debated that today. It's about some investments – projects, you can call them – which you in the counties obviously appreciate. Even in our county, you point to what you can do. Then there is the question of whether it is the most effective way of spending money on this. That is what the evaluation will then show: how much has happened, and how much could possibly have happened without the state money? What we are working on in our budget and in our policy on these very issues is a green tax exchange. I regret that the government does not like this issue, which the Green Party, together with us, has been pushing for a long time. I think it is a lack of progress in reducing taxes on labour, entrepreneurship and pensions and increasing taxes on environmentally harmful activities. It is more important, I think, to focus precisely on this and to put it into the whole idea and into the system than just to discuss various project initiatives, which can be laudable. But now we have put forward a proposal that means that we want to work more with green tax exchange. We believe that more.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-938	Mr President, I would like to I think that the government has done a great deal on the tax side in terms of climate change. We have an increase in the CO2 tax on fuels, for example. We also have proposals to introduce a flight tax. It is for me very important measures to tax climate-damaging activities. However, when it comes to assessing the climate situation and so on, we can look at the support that existed earlier. There was something called Klimp. And there was something called LIP, which stood for local investment programmes and was more focused on energy efficiency. Klimp and Klimatklivet have other pieces too. You can look at the final evaluation. There's been talk of evaluations here and there. However, the final evaluation carried out by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency of both LIP and Klimp when those projects were completed states that the projects have led to a reduction of CO2 emissions of 1 million tonnes per year, each. There's a lot of emissions. There is also something else in the evaluation that I find interesting. Just as in the climate category, the projects that would still have been made of money must not be allowed. That's very careful. The Environmental Protection Agency's looking at it. This was also done when it came to LIP and Klimp. However, the projects identified by applying in municipalities, regions, companies and organisations were quite large. I find it exciting and important with these support. It's not just about getting money for projects. You also start a job in the country that is about finding out what it is you really need to do and can do and maybe get state aid for. Given the history description, I wonder: Do the Christian Democrats also think that LIP and Klimp were bad?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-942	Mr President, I would like to I can understand this. The job with these project applications is a process in itself, whether you get money or not. It's of value. Of course, this kind of work exists in our various sectors of society. When Stina Bergström comments on the proposal for a tax exchange, she says: Yes, we have increased taxes. I can confirm that. I understand that a total of 64 different taxes have been raised by the government. But it's not about tax shifting. That's where you're missing the target. Tax shifting is precisely about reducing taxes on labour. You haven't. You have taken the opportunity to raise taxes on labour as well. It is a major mistake that the government has made with this. Should we have a green tax shift for the environment and jobs, then it should be a change and nothing else!
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-944	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! It is with great pleasure that I stand here today in the speaker's chair when we will soon decide on the biggest and most important climate reform in Sweden ever. The framework will provide long-term conditions for transition for future governments, for municipalities and for companies and households. I would like to thank all the Members who are here in this House and who have participated in this long debate, but above all all all all the Members who have participated in the work of the Environmental Objectives Committee, which creates the conditions for the very long-term and stability that a successful climate policy needs. With the targets for net zero emissions to 2045 and with the energy agreement's target for fully renewable electricity generation to 2040, the direction for Sweden is now clearly defined. This is historic and something that the outside world sees and applauds. It is with almost as much joy that I can say that the Green Party's most important election promises for the 2014 elections are now about to become a reality. I would also like to thank former climate minister Åsa Romson, who is here with us today, for her efforts for this important reform, from ax to loaf. All countries need to take active responsibility for climate change, and rich countries like Sweden will take the lead in the work by implementing measures to reduce emissions and also supporting work in countries that need support. That is precisely what Sweden is doing now. The Green Party and the Government aim for Sweden to take the lead and become the first fossil-free welfare country. We shall be a leading country in the global effort to realise the ambitious objectives of the Paris Agreement, and the ranking of EU countries that have now shown that Sweden is the first in the EU to implement the Paris Agreement shows that we are on the right track. The US Government's statement to withdraw from the Paris Agreement is deeply regrettable. When mankind faces such a great challenge, the full commitment of the United States would have been needed. However, the external reactions show that the Paris Agreement is irreversible. When the White House chooses to turn a blind eye to climate science, we choose to prioritise and increase the pace of climate work. When the Swedish government signs climate agreements with California and arranges seminars with the American business community, it is because we know that there is commitment in many parts of the United States. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is highlighted by an increasing number of global leaders as an important example. It is noticeable that Sweden has now stepped forward, hosting the world's first and largest marine conference in the UN, with the climate law that the Riksdag will decide soon, with a feminist foreign policy, with a place in the UN Security Council and with climate ambitions that are realized both here at home and away, Sweden's role on the global stage has been strengthened. We are helping those who need it most in the poorest countries with a record investment in climate finance. We have taken a place on the board of the Green Climate Fund, and we are influencing the World Bank in phasing out fossil energy investments. This is climate action that makes a difference in reality. When the climate policy framework is now in place, focus needs to be focused on how to achieve the goals. Never have we had a government as active in environmental and climate policy as it is now! This year's budget is the largest climate and environmental budget ever – an increase of 82 percent compared to the year of the alliance government. All sectors of society must contribute. But fossil-free transport is an important key. We have proposed a change of fuel that makes it easier for everyone to get more climate-smart fuels. We invest in electrification and local climate change throughout the country. Bonus – the Malus system rewards relatively low-emission vehicles at the time of purchase with a bonus, while relatively high-emission vehicles are subject to a higher tax. Through the Climate Cell, support is given to climate-smart measures from Malmö in the south to Kiruna in the north. Only the number of charging points has now increased by more than 350 percent since the support was introduced, charging points that exist throughout the country and that will enable everyone to own an electric car with zero emissions. The Environmental Protection Agency has looked at what government policy means. They estimate that we now have a chance to close the entire emissions gap by 2020 of 4 million tonnes of emissions each year that the previous government left behind. The climate life is estimated to yield about 1.5 million tons. But we're far from done. Much more climate policy is needed to achieve the ambitions of the Paris Agreement and the climate framework. Mr President, I would like to It was empty of suggestions at the Department of the Environment when we entered the government. However, as you have all noticed, there is now full speed ahead, and we will soon be coming back with more proposals. Today we have an opposition which opposes many of the concrete proposals that we have put forward. I could certainly accept that if there were other proposals to help us achieve the objectives. However, the lack of proposals makes me wonder whether the opposition is more afraid of climate action than of climate change. It opposes the climate investments that are now leading to climate change throughout the country. One out of every four crowns is cut off from the environmental budget. An air tax of SEK 80 is opposed to curbing the increased emissions of aviation. One opposes a road toll, and one wants 74-ton trucks to be able to drive across the country. It is thought that the airline tax is so dangerous that it is prepared to create a budget chaos in the autumn so as not to see it. The Moderates and Liberals are also opposed to new main routes for modern high-speed trains, which can lead to a reduced need for long-term flights. Mr President, I would like to An effective climate policy requires a holistic approach and efforts far beyond the Ministry of the Environment. We have broadened the work of the Government Office and are now, among other things, calling for all draft budgets to be environmentally tested. The ambitious emissions targets proposed in the climate framework mean that all policy areas need to take greater responsibility. This justifies a special climate policy council. The Government's plan is that it will be in place before the end of the year, when the Climate Act enters into force. Mr President, I would like to Climate policy has been arbitrarily conducted for far too long. To this day, we have only had one climate target by 2020. With such short-term prospects, the necessary investments are not made in Sweden. But now we're gonna change that. Taking leadership for the climate is not only morally right; it is also economically smart. When we are down to net zero in 2045 and our Swedish solutions are exported to the whole world, then we will all be happy that in 2017 we set the framework for a world-leading climate policy.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-967	Mr President, I would like to Minister for Climate Change Isabella Lövin said something important: that now there will be a focus on how we should conduct climate policy. Perhaps one could also add that there should be focus on here. I think that quite often when we hear government representatives talking about environmental and climate policy, there are a lot of references to international conferences, meetings in California, meetings with high animals from the IPCC and meetings with other ministers. This is important; it is climate diplomacy. But let us not forget that it is actually here and now, at home, that we are changing and taking responsibility for the emissions that affect the whole world. With the decision we are about to take now, all policy areas must take a much greater integrated responsibility for climate policy. That's what the government bill says. We already know some consequences, such as the appointment of a Climate Policy Council, the provision of accounts related to the state budget and the development of a four-year plan for climate policy. That's good. Are there any other concrete changes to the government's policy that the climate minister can tell us about here and now? The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency came two weeks ago with its updated report on so-called environmentally harmful subsidies, i.e. money that is given or tax cuts that are offered to businesses that lead to increased emissions. It can be mining peat, reduced taxes for industry and travel deductions that benefit mass motorism, not least in the Stockholm area. Will the government present an action plan to phase out environmentally harmful subsidies as a consequence of the decision?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-971	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question and also for Jens Holm's work in the Environmental Objectives Committee! I welcome Jens Holm's commitment and eagerness to move forward as early as tomorrow with the work to fill the climate framework with a content. It is clear that environmentally harmful subsidies are the very foundation that shines in the eyes of those who want us to pursue an environmentally friendly and forward-looking policy. The exemption of aviation from taxation is one of the kinds of hidden subsidies that also shines in the eyes of the efforts to reduce emissions from one of the most important sectors, namely the transport sector. For reasons of competitiveness between, for example, car traffic and air transport, it is reasonable that aviation fuels should also be taxed. It is perfectly reasonable to look further at these issues on the basis of the principle that the emitter should pay. There are both hidden and open subsidies that lead to increased emissions. It is clear that we need to streamline our policies in all areas if we are to achieve the climate target, which is very ambitious in an international perspective. Jens Holm points out that we are talking a lot about these issues. It is important for Sweden to be able to be the role model and show other parts of the world that there are countries that take the Paris Agreement seriously, while the world's second largest emitter has announced to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. It is extremely important that we get the world on board that the transition is possible. Then environmentally harmful subsidies are part of the issue. That is the government's opinion.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-975	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with Isabella Lövin on the flight tax. It is important, and we in the Left Party are behind it. Now that I saw the proposal sent by the government to the Law Council, I saw in one of the annexes that the US and Canada receive a lower flight tax than, for example, neighbouring countries such as Cuba, Mexico and other countries on the American continent. I thought it was a little strange. We can talk about this later; it is still an important treasure, and it can be even better. With regard to environmentally harmful subsidies, it is important not to consider them on any ad hoc basis, that is, one subsidy here and another there. We must try to take a holistic approach here. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's review is so good because they have gone through all the environmentally harmful subsidies that they have identified in Sweden. It was a government mission that was reported at the beginning of June. This review can be used, and then the government can adopt an action plan to phase out environmentally harmful subsidies. An action plan is important. There is a reasonable balance to be struck. Sometimes there may actually be reasonable reasons why there is a subsidy. We may think it is important to be able to live, live and work in all parts of Sweden. Perhaps there is a need for support for transport. But travel deductions that promote mass motorism in the Greater Stockholm area are quite bizarre. I was thinking of an action plan to review all environmentally harmful subsidies. I wonder if I can get a concrete answer on this particular issue from the Minister.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-979	Mr President, I would like to It is true that this is a government mission and that the government thus stresses the importance of the issue. We need to analyse the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's review in all parts and see how we will proceed with the knowledge. Here there may be many low-hanging fruits. I cannot tell you exactly how the work will proceed today in the speaker's chair, but it will go further. Many in this House have talked about cost-effectiveness and cost-effective climate policy. The most cost-effective thing I can imagine is removing harmful subsidies from activities that lead to increased emissions. If you are not in favour of this, it will be difficult to criticise subsidies for reducing emissions. That's the relationship we need to look at. Globally, fossil fuel subsidies are five times greater than renewable energy subsidies. Huge amounts of taxpayers' money go to diesel, fossil fuels, gas and gasoline in the world. It is money that could be used for the global transition we need. It is a hugely important core issue, and it is important to include that part in the argument for anyone who wants to discuss cost-effectiveness.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-983	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party went to elections to speed up the climate work and said that coal would stay on the slopes. With the conclusion in hand, we can conclude that the coal has been sold to the highest bidder and that the Swedish emissions are rising. It's not a result that impresses. Impresses also do not make the mix of measures that the Green Party is taking forward. It is worrying that a placard policy is being pursued to a large extent. The minister here made a list of all the bets made, of the money spent. I do not think that climate policy should be allowed to be a competition for who is spending the most tax money. The race must be about who delivers the best results. I note that the Alliance delivered declining emissions combined with strong economic development, and this government has delivered rising emissions and slowed economic growth. With the decision to be taken shortly, Parliament gives clear instructions on how to conduct the policy. The objectives are to be achieved by pursuing a climate policy that does not lead to rising emissions. Will the government withdraw the proposal for a flight tax? Will the government withdraw the proposal to tax cogeneration installations because Europe's emissions trading system, ETS, already includes these emissions?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-987	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg repeats that emissions are rising. That's SCB's statistics. The statistics we compare with normally come from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. According to these statistics, emissions are still stable. As Matilda Ernkrans pointed out, national emissions, where there is room for manoeuvre, were reduced and emissions were slightly increased in the EU ETS. I would also like to point out that during the time of the Alliance in 2010, emissions increased significantly. What we did when we entered government was to start from the beginning with a number of fundamental reforms to bring down emissions where we have room for manoeuvre. It is about transport, among other things. The Green Party has presented and got a change of fuel approved by the European Commission, which you failed to do. We are forcing petrol and diesel distributors to mix renewable energy into petrol and diesel so that it is easy to do the right thing for motorists. We have also presented a bonus – Malus system that will make the fuel-thirsty cars cost more and that the fuel-efficient get a bonus. We have also increased efforts and money for the maintenance and construction of railways. I note that you are against a modern high-speed train, which could be an option for people who want to move between, for example, Stockholm and Malmö, Gothenburg or Copenhagen. A flight tax is entirely reasonable because the flight is completely untaxed. Four countries in Europe have it, including Norway and France, and it is a perfectly reasonable tax that can bring about a real reduction in emissions.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-994	Mr President, I would like to The alliance was able to speed up the transformation of the automotive sector. Thanks to the environmental car premium and differentiated vehicle taxation we first got an environmental car boom followed by a super environmental car boom. It is good that we are moving towards a bonus – Malus system. The Moderates and the Alliance have pushed for that. The Moderates and the Alliance have also pushed for the introduction of a reduction obligation. The most important tool for reducing emissions in the transport sector is to tackle precisely the emissions and go on the fuel and not tax the car itself. There is an important ideological difference between the Green Party and the Moderates. Mr President, I would like to I am genuinely concerned and angry at the announcement that the Government is not going to withdraw the air tax or, if I interpret the Minister correctly, the proposal to impose CO2 tax on cogeneration because it is contrary to the agreement we have made in the Environmental Objectives Committee. It is contrary to the principles laid down in the bill presented by the government itself. It is very clear that the emission reduction target must not be achieved by increasing emissions in other countries. In the government's own estimates from the Ministry of Finance and in the aviation tax investigation, it is black and white that emissions are allowed to increase in other countries due to the national instruments proposed by the government. It is politics that runs counter to what we have fought long and well to agree on in the Environmental Objectives Committee. I am proud and happy about the Environmental Objectives Committee's agreement and the framework that we have negotiated because it creates the basis for long-termism. But this long-term attitude can quickly endanger and destroy the government if it does not comply with and pursue the agreement that has been reached. Mr President, I would like to If the government wants a long-term climate policy, my strongest recommendation to the climate minister is to respect the principles that we have agreed.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1001	Mr President, I would like to After the alliance government removed the CO2 tax on cogeneration, the emissions of cogeneration plants increased significantly as they started to burn with oil instead. It is a development that goes in the completely opposite direction towards the common objectives that we agree that we must achieve. We must be careful what we mean when we say that emissions move abroad, because we also agree that Sweden should be a role model and take global leadership. The aviation industry is also interested in survival after 2045. It must also reduce its emissions. That is why the government has also announced that we are setting up an investigation into a fuel change also for aviation so that you have to look at how to reduce your emissions. I think we agree that we need air traffic in cases where there are no alternatives. Then it is strange that the Moderates are not for speed trains, because we must have the carbon-free and fuel-efficient means of transport for the future – for your and my children and grandchildren. How are they going to move if we don't make sure there are alternatives? We must signal to aviation and to all sectors that it is now a transition to a fossil-free and carbon-free future society that is the focus. It provides the conditions for business and investors, and therefore they welcome the climate law that Johan Hultberg and other members of the Riksdag have been involved in developing and that we should be proud of.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1006	Mr President, I would like to For the government, the most important thing seems to be to raise taxes. For me, the most important thing is to reduce emissions. The Green Party and the Social Democrats seem to see companies and private individuals as a cash cow to tax. For me and the Center Party, the most important thing is the joint fight against climate change. I have no doubt about the government's ambitions. I know that the Green Party has high environmental ambitions, and that is a good thing. But it's not about who's throwing out the most money, it's about who's doing the most climate benefit. We don't even have to stand here and fight, because reality shows black in white, both with the Environmental Protection Agency's figures and with SCB's figures, that with the Center Party in the government reduced emissions and more got a job to go to. Now emissions are no longer falling. How can the Green Party and Isabella Lövin be satisfied with that? There is no country in the world that wants to copy the way in which the government penalizes taxes on growth. We are presenting a budget with a green tax shift. We raise taxes on what releases and lower taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. That's how we get green growth. We are investing in the railways, even more than the government – even if we are not going to compete for who is betting the most. We have environmental truck premium, charging poles and all the other good things. But we make it more accurate, because it's not about spending the most money. In his first government declaration, the Prime Minister said: During the term of office, fossil emissions in Sweden will be clearly reduced. The trend is in the opposite direction. I dare to say that it is because the government is carrying out a red tax increase instead of a green tax shift. In addition, when you hit your chest, send out press releases and are happy that you are abolishing or lowering taxes you have introduced yourself, such as the solar tax, it is clearly something that is not right in the government's climate agenda. I'm worried about that. How can Isabella Lövin be satisfied with climate policy?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1016	Mr President, I would like to The Alliance government left behind 4 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent in a climate deficit that you did not have policies to reduce with national measures. Now, with our actions, including climate change, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's forecast shows that we will be able to close this emission gap by 2020. Rickard Nordin talks a lot about green tax exchange. At the same time, you are against airline tax and road wear charge. You are against all the proposals that Rickard Nordin calls punitive taxes. You're also against the Climate Clive. You are against the support we give to municipalities, regions and businesses throughout the country. In particular, it concerns centre-controlled municipalities, which are very pleased with this support. This means that we are building charging points for electric cars all over the country. We have an electrification strategy that involves the business community. We invest in urban environment agreements, which allow us to build smarter and not build ourselves into fossil solutions that require motorways and do not allow for cycle paths and tram or electric bus traffic. You are against this. In addition, you want to rule with the Moderates, who want to lower the tax on petrol and diesel. I do not call that a green tax exchange; that is what I call a brown tax exchange. The Moderates also intend to rule with the support of the Swedish Democrats, and we have heard in this House how the Swedish Democrats reason on the climate issue: rather elsewhere, rather by someone else, not here.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1021	Mr President, I would like to It is classic rule technique to use guilt by association. I am responsible for the policy of the Center Party, neither for the policy of the Swedish Democrats nor for the policy of the Moderates. Isabella Lövin knows that the Center Party does not sit in a government supported by the Swedish Democrats, so we can keep that from this debate. The Center Party focuses on things that reduce emissions while we manage growth. That's why we're against the airline tax. The government's own investigators have shown that the effects are marginal. If, instead, we were to use the Center Party's proposal, to involve more biofuels in aviation, we could get as much benefit from climate change as with the government's proposal for half the cost. If we were to take all the money that airlines would have to pay in tax and instead spend on biofuels, we would have a double climate benefit compared to the government's proposal. The government's proposal is not about taxing fuel but about taxing passengers. Even if we were to have electric flights that are completely emission-free and go on green electricity, the government's aviation tax would still apply. That is the problem. It is not mobility that is the problem, it is emissions that are the problem. This is what the government cannot make a difference. We need more mobility. We need more people moving, more people commuting, more trains and more rail traffic – that's good stuff. We need mobility; we are an elongated country. To then introduce a tax which, as Johan Hultberg said, is also within the emissions trading system is completely wrong to go. It goes against the principles that we agree on in the Environmental Objectives Committee, and it does not provide climate benefits. That is the big problem. Moreover, the government's policy on mileage taxes threatens to take out much of the biomaterial that we need for both the transport sector and aviation. It is kilometer tax and air tax – tax increases without any real climate effect. This is what makes the Center Party opposed. We want things that have a real effect, and that is why we are making other proposals. That is why we are putting forward proposals on the obligation to commit ourselves, and that is why we made a record number of different proposals during the last parliamentary term. That is how we change, and it also shows the emissions statistics.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1028	Mr President, I would like to Rickard Nordin! The government proposes an addition of SEK 80 to the flight ticket, which today can cost a couple of hundred dollars. 80 kroner! How much is a train ticket between Stockholm and Kiruna? I promise you, it costs a lot more than a plane ticket. Here we are talking about trying to make it any kind of competitive neutrality and that emitters should pay. That's a principle you're up to, isn't it? I think it is great that you have now come up with a proposal for a reduction obligation or a change of fuel in the aviation sector. We can work together on that; we think that's great. When it comes to green tax shifting, we have said that we want to use the revenues from air tax to grow support for small businesses so that those who are single-person entrepreneurs today will not have to pay employers' contributions when they bring in their first employee. This is green tax exchange, right off. I can't hear anything from Rickard Nordin that looks like green tax exchange. What do you want to tax? You don't want to tax anything – not truck traffic, not aviation, but what? This is a very strange rhetoric. However, I am sure that we can make progress in terms of air transport reduction obligations. I note that our proposal has led to this debate, which otherwise would not have arrived. When it comes to how hugely small emission reductions that the Center Party and the Swedish Flyg claim this would lead to, there are other contexts where the Center Party is campaigning for things that we also support, such as ending the move carousel between Brussels and Strasbourg. This would mean significantly less emission reductions than this tax would entail. All sectors must contribute if we are to get down to zero emissions in 2045.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1041	Mr President, I would like to We have had a long debate, and at the end we may have come to the differences. We have, of course, been very much in agreement that the climate policy framework can provide a strength and a way of working, and just as we stated in the Environmental Objectives Committee, we will end up in this situation when we have different ways of getting to the goal. I think it was the Minister himself who said it was a strange rhetoric, but you can have views on that depending on where you see it from. The reason I asked for a reply was the description of Liberal politics – it felt like it was like that. Of course, we have other instruments, but we have not said that we do not think they are powerful. As I said before, we have the starting point that the polluter pays. We are even so drastic that we propose that we should not have a bonus – the Malus system but, in principle, just increased taxes on cars with large emissions. It may sound a little strange, but we do not think it is reasonable for the state to go in and subsidise new car purchases. We believe that in this area too it is similar to the residential area; if subsidies are introduced, the price pressure on the market is not optimal. The climate range and charging poles are often mentioned. I would just like to point out that in the Liberals' draft budget there are 75 million charging poles. So we have a completely different approach to the budget. When it comes to railways, we have said no to high-speed trains, but it is not because we do not want to invest in rail. We want to invest in other things on the railways, which we believe will make much more use of both transport technology and climate. I can get back to that.
i-Ur3oHzFSY8uudvdSF7M3GP	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the line, Lars Tysklind! When it comes to bonuses – malus I can understand how the Liberals argue that taxing and the polluter paying can be enough. B onus – the malus system has the logic that it is the malus, i.e. taxation, that pays the bonus. As a result, it is a self-financing system. In a situation where electric cars are being introduced and still in a price range that is beyond the middle wage earner's wallet, we see that it may be good to go in with support so far. The cars with very low emissions can also deserve a bonus for us to give the extra boost and get across the threshold to bring down the emissions from passenger car traffic, which we so badly need. Climate change goes largely to charging poles – at least in numbers, but perhaps not in money. However, it also goes to a large extent to other types of projects, such as the biogas plant in Kungshamn where the fisher becomes biogas. There are plenty of examples of smart such solutions; for example, the world's first climate-positive data center will be built in Falun. These are projects and actions which would otherwise not be implemented and which we see create many new jobs in addition to reducing emissions. With regard to high-speed trains, I regret that the Liberals do not want to invest in the future and provide an alternative to aviation. For high-speed trains are something that works very well in other countries and something where we see that traffic can increase without increasing emissions.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1048	Mr President, I would like to Much has been done on the climate benefits of high-speed trains, but perhaps it is going too far to discuss it. We see, of course, that what is the problem in the rail system – if we now look at the railway lines where the railway really replaces air traffic big, for example between Gothenburg and Stockholm – is operational safety. That's what's crucial, because we're down in short time anyway. Then, of course, there are other routes, but these are not the ones we are discussing now. It is the main roads in southern Sweden that should be strengthened. There are also many freight routes that need to be strengthened. The Transport Council of the business community has been quite clear that efforts that are not so large can do a great deal of good in the rail network. I fully agree with the Minister on fossil fuel subsidies. It's one of the big bad guys-- I was about to say it's one of the big elephants in the room. We have dared to include, for example, reduced subsidies to agriculture in our draft budgets. This, of course, is a challenge in itself. I would also like to say a few words about the airline tax. From the Liberals' point of view, the polluter pays. Everyone has to pay for their environmental impact. We are not in favour of the flight tax proposal that has now been put forward. On the other hand, we are very much in favour of it being arranged at a European level – from the point of view of competition – so that several countries do the same. We support the Center Party's proposal on reduction obligations. It has to be borne in mind that fuel is the problem. When it comes to promoting biofuels, we believe there must be incentives to use biofuels. For example, the same system could be used in maritime transport and lower landing charges could be introduced for those who use biofuels. It could be a way to go.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1055	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that we are finally talking seriously in this House about aviation emissions and about the responsibility of aviation to reduce its emissions. When it comes to the European countries, it is Norway, Luxembourg, the United Kingdom and France that currently have a flight tax. It is not reasonable that, unlike other modes of transport, flights should be completely exempt from paying their climate costs. I'm very happy that Lars Tysklind is open to discussing flight reduction obligations. Of course, it is in the end that we should have emissions down – that is the important thing. When it comes to trains and high-speed trains, it is my firm belief that this is a hugely comfortable, environmentally friendly and climate-friendly alternative to move quickly – for example, to travel from Brussels to London or Paris in a couple of hours. We will be able to build Sweden's high-speed train with Europe and thus eliminate the need to fly as much as we do today. This is therefore an investment for the future. We also need new main roads so that we can transfer more of the goods to the railway. When it comes to subsidies, I would like to take this opportunity to mention our great commitment to the urban environment agreements, which are support for cities and municipalities that are going to build new residential areas. There we go in with part-financing, so that when planning new areas planning climate smart and promoting cycle paths and public transport. In this way, we build smart cities and reduce emissions for the future.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1061	Mr President, I would like to The annual debate on climate action in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture in this House has looked a little different over the years. With my perspective backwards, I can say that it has very often been a rather disparate debate on various individual proposals from individual parties. It has been difficult for them to see how these proposals would lead individually to particularly significant changes. Above all, if I look back on the previous parliamentary term, it has been a debate in which there has been great discord and disagreement on different climate objectives, both in terms of figures and in terms of how to count. I can mention the Alliance's 2009 climate bill, which was drawn up, among other things, in the light of a breakdown of the Copenhagen Summit and which was based on what these parties managed to come up with in their joint internal agreements in the field of climate change. This climate bill was a response to the fact that Sweden's emissions would decrease by 40 per cent by 2020. However, it was not really defined how this would happen, but it was rather fuzzy. That did not give the debate a very good stun. The opposition at that time – me and my party included – did not make the debate easier by having as the main criticism of the bill that the goal of a 40% reduction was good but that one should count in the way we wanted. I do not know how many people in our elongated country actually felt that the political debate on climate and climate change in Sweden came much further through such a debate. I think we've learned a lot since then. I believe that the discord on figures will remain, because we will want to indicate that we have different ambitions. We will also conclude the basis for decisions that we see as politicians by saying that it is in fact quite possible to achieve this earlier and with a higher figure. For my part, I can say that in the years I have been a climate politician I have seen that it is of less importance exactly what figure you land on. This applies both in international and national contexts. If we look back a few more terms of office, we can see what we in Sweden have managed to do with the fulfilment of what was then the most important international instrument on the climate side, that is, the Kyoto Protocol. We performed far above what politicians at the time were extremely divided about and deeply concerned about – that the goals in Sweden were far too ambitious. Sweden thus achieved over its own re-debated objectives. I have come to the conclusion, Mr President, that the exact figures you land on are not always important. What is important is the content of the figures – how you intend to reach them, what strategy you have to reach these figures and, not least, what institutions you build around it. We then managed to reach a broad consensus that the climate threat is a real danger and that emissions in Sweden must also contribute to reducing the climate threat. It was a good consensus to reach at the end of the last parliamentary term, but this was not enough to show the children, young people and everyone else in Swedish society who are very worried about climate change that we as politicians take our responsibility. We needed to do more from politics. I was involved in writing a motion in 2012 entitled Order and Order in Climate Policy. This was in this motion that the Green Party proposed a climate policy framework. It was also there that we clearly announced through the rhetoric that this was something that we needed to work broadly with. This was not a proposal where we were going to do exactly what we only wanted, but it was precisely about the allocation to build a reasonable framework. We took as a very good example – which I am pleased that during today's debate, among other things, the Center Party has shown that it has understood – the parallel to the budgetary framework that we have in the Swedish Parliament. We had a budget crisis. The parties came together and found that this is not good enough – a government has too much incentive to want to sneak statistics, with reforms and with how to judge. Parliament must go in here and make it clear that there are frameworks, budgets, emission ceilings or expenditure ceilings. I think that this framework for Sweden was a very good parallel to show when we needed order and order also in climate policy. In the exercise treatment in spring 2013, we also received support from – or managed to find a positive response from – the Social Democrats and the Left Party. Of course, it is easier when you are in opposition. On the other hand, in the debate with the representatives of the Alliance Government, including Fredrik Reinfeldt, these proposals received a little mockery, I must say – I myself represented in party leaders' debates. Would the Green Party now like to decide to ban aircraft from lifting the day on which the climate emissions budget has reached its ceiling? I do not really know how Fredrik Reinfeldt views the Budget Act, but as far as I know, we have never stopped payments from the Swedish Treasury just because some budget ceilings have been reached. Rather, it is about responsibility going back to politics. It should go back to the government and to the Riksdag to ensure that you have a whole and that it is connected. I am also pleased that the government that took office after the alliance government actually took hold of the issue and saw that it was necessary to continue working on this in broad agreement. Another point raised by the Center Party in its speech today, which was very important and which I saw as extremely important, was to take on board the vision of zero emissions in 2050 that was agreed on the alliance side. There we had a common plan for what we needed to do in the long term. What was left to do, unfortunately, was to make sure that it was not just a vision and a one-man investigator. We therefore invited the parties and made sure that they took this to heart and made proposals to the Riksdag to decide not only on visions but on actual goals, actual plans and an effective regulatory framework. That is why I am pleased that, as the climate minister at the time, I was able to entrust the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection with the task of producing such a proposal. But, of course, I am even more proud to see the Environmental Objectives preparation results, which far exceed what I saw during parts of the work. But I know that when people and parties in Sweden are given responsibility and tasks they try to deliver. I think that everyone who was part of the Environmental Objectives Committee really did a strong and good job, and I am very happy about that. Finally, order and order are also in climate policy and not just in economic policy, not least in order to break the schism that I am now hearing in the debate about how to get back up between economic growth and emission reductions. Here I think we need to be honest and choose sides. Do we really believe that we can achieve sustainable economic growth on a planet that is being destroyed to the extent that is happening today? It doesn't make sense. I take the debate as meaning that all parties in Sweden are united, except one party, that the modernised society, where we make innovations and find smart solutions, is the most competitive. It is also the most sustainable and economically sustainable in the long term, both for businesses and for our local communities. With this, Mr President, in my probably last debate in Parliament, I would like to say that I am very proud of all the work that Parliament's parties have done in the field of climate change. I would also like to thank the other participants in the debate here today.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1084	Mr President, I would like to Something surprising I ask for a reply, but it is not to discuss or argue, but it is again to thank Åsa Romson for her work and the initiative she has shown on this issue. It is very much the fruit of her work that we are celebrating here today. Just as you mentioned, the Green Party started in 2012 to move forward the issue of order and order in climate policy. It's been a long trip. As new Minister for Climate Change, Åsa Romson gave the Environment Target Committee an additional assignment to look at this issue, and now we see the result. This is something that will affect Sweden's environmental policy. Sweden is today also a clear pioneer country. I would like to thank you again for that. Since someone whispered in my ear that this is probably your last speech in this House as a Member of Parliament, at least for this time, and that you are now going to investigate Sweden's environmental monitoring, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you very much for your work here.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1088	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the warm words of the current climate minister and the government! I can send that it is precisely this kind of reform work that I believe will really put a mark on the future. It should not diminish the importance of an extremely vital climate debate. I think that the Minister and the other participants in the debate showed that the climate debate can be turned into what is the effective measures. In this debate, I can assure the Government and the Parliament that I will participate in other ways. The management of the environmental monitoring mission is a purely management task. I intend to work with both climate and sustainability issues in the future in some other way outside the Riksdag. But it has been an extremely instructive time. I hope that future environmental and climate politicians will learn from this work and do even more great things. I wish you all the best of luck.
i-LeZe6iDeiSHFm14z9w3iQq	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal and our reservation in paragraph 5 and the rejection of the motions. It feels a bit like a graduation. We may save the real feeling for next week, even if you can have the feeling that the semester ends when you hear all the tjo and tjim out at Riddarhustorget from the student flat. Actually, it feels more like you have submitted a degree project or a final thesis, because it is a celebration for a Member of Parliament to be able to apply for approval for such a proposal. It is in practice red-green policy that we see in the booklet that we are going to discuss here today and better also the policy of the Alliance and the Left Party. It is even more gratifying that we can largely agree on such an important issue as crime prevention. Generally speaking, politics tends to be reactive, not least when the dramatic events in the outside world or in our own country are pushing politics ahead. It can turn into purely populist proposals and short-term and political anxiety. It can well be said that in the recent agreement on terrorism, the work there was not marked by this perspective. Not least the crime prevention perspective was included in the agreement, which is extremely gratifying. We sometimes have to choose perspectives, and at this point we focus on the long-term perspective, because crime prevention rarely gives quick points. It doesn't give quick prosecution and bustling headlines. However, it is not just flosskeler or a collection of flower languages in the report, but it is a rich test map of concrete, practical and follow-up proposals that are on the table. It is a great gain for the justice chain when a crime is solved and prosecuted, but it is always a greater gain for society that crime is not committed. There we have the heart of crime prevention, and it is good that we can agree on this basic perspective. The fact that we Social Democrats believe in strong society is no secret. We believe in a society that is connected, where the class divides are not allowed to grow and where the differences between the sexes are to be evened out. We believe that the outcome of this Nordic social model, which we call Sweden, is much stronger than almost all other social models that we have ever seen in world history, even globally. Every key figure shows that this way of looking at the world and organizing our common existence in the form of a society is superior. What characterises the Nordic model is that decision-making policies are based on rationality and reason, on consultation procedures and investigation procedures, which can be long and lengthy, but above all on a scientific basis. That is what this is all about. That's why Brå is such a beautiful authority. It is based on a scientific basis. Is this the most beautiful society we have seen on earth? Yes, of course it is. It is my pride as a Swedish and Social Democrat, and it is not to take precedence. If research and practice show that crime prevention is the most effective in the long term to combat crime, it is our ostracised – to semi-severe a little – duty to take this perspective. Although general welfare policy is the basis for this, it is not enough, as the Government's letter states. We need targeted action. We need targeted action against places, conditions and situations where criminal activities take place and where people are exposed. It was 20 years ago and more, that we last had a comprehensive crime prevention programme at Parliament's table. During these years a fairly rich flora has emerged – one might say – of municipal and regional crime prevention forms for work. Hundreds of thousands of people wear this. There are a lot of people in civil society and in the public sector and in private individuals who are the keys and enablers to bring crime down in this country. Often they have no idea, but they just do. It is about the neighbours who help to bring in the mail in the summer to avoid showing the thieves that they are out of town. It's about the educator who has a long-term foundation work with his kids. It is just as well about the official at the street office who ensures that the bushes are cleared away at the mouths of the pedestrian tunnels when worried citizens call in to the municipality. All of a sudden, these people have been involved in making decisions to increase the situational prevention – which is the most complicated and strange order of words in this context. It's about millions of decisions in the little one. What is described as the key word in this is what applies in almost all public administration and policies: interaction. It must increase, it must become more efficient and it must become organic. It's a concept of success. It's a recipe for success, purely evidence-based. For example, when cooperating parties, such as the police and the municipality, agree that they have a crime-prone place, the citizens' promises and cooperation agreements that we have launched with the new police organisation can identify what needs to be done. Then the programme is an incredibly good manual to develop in order to find concrete measures to solve the problems. One can say that the program consists purely editorially of a background, a fact base, some kind of criminal policy review, a basic course in criminology or what to call it. There is also a rich flora of both examples and more concrete measures and objectives for the government. These are mainly three. Firstly, it is a question of reducing the motivation for crime. It should never be right to choose the criminal course. It is important to prevent, among other young people, criminal situations. Therefore, the municipality, county council and state should always be present and offer an alternative path and an alternative life. There should be recreation centres instead of empty squares or an absent community. There should be a strong social service, and there should be good pupil health. It may seem obvious, but it is not in practice. We see enormous potential for a safer society in many of our vulnerable areas. But every day we also make decisions and reason on how to proceed in this construction. Secondly, it is a question of increasing informal and formal control in society. It is not entirely unproblematic, but all criminologists since the 19th century, not least the review of Chicago, show that the absence of control is one of the most important criminogenic factors that exist in society. You could call it alienation or anonymity. But it's not simply because it's equation that doesn't always make sense. The farming community, for example, was not entirely uncomplicated with the standardizing standard that people were subjected to when it came to how to be and not to be. The anonymous urban life also has its advantages. It is a creative environment, and it also creates privacy for the individual. This equation and balance must also be found in the prevention of crime. It's as simple as that. I shall conclude with the third example. It's a concept: The occasion makes the thief. We'll try to find and take the opportunity from the thief. We're gonna do it in a lot of different ways that I don't have to describe in detail. But it can be about variety of efforts. Finally, I will stress another perspective, namely that the person who is exposed to crime is often exposed again and again. This can be about areas, and housing in a housing break-in context, but it can also apply to individuals who are exposed for different reasons. Therefore, victim support work is central – for moral reasons but also for practical, crime prevention reasons. That is something I would like to emphasise here today. This is not exactly the political everyday life of the quick pucks, but, as I said, the craft of the long waves. Although we have a negative announcement here today in the direction of danger, we are broadly in agreement on this. I'm glad. However, it is implementation that counts, and I feel quite confident about that. The predecessor of this is a programme that came 20 years ago, and it has given good tools to municipalities and county councils to create local Brå and other things. This programme will provide an even stronger platform to stand on when it comes to taking the next step to build a safer society, which is the goal.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1114	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by pointing out that I am, of course, behind all moderate reservations, but for time winning, I would simply like to endorse reservation number 4. The aim of criminal policy is to reduce crime and increase people's security. There are strong reasons for intensifying this work as Sweden is now going through a rather serious security crisis. The situation is deeply worrying in much of the country. The number of people, especially young women, who feel insecure in their own place of residence is increasing dramatically. We also know that the number of vulnerable areas is growing, and we know that the police have major organisational problems. We see it through low investigation results, and we see it by police officers ending on a scale that we have never experienced before. Citizens' access to the police has decreased despite the fact that the objective of the major police reform was to increase accessibility. We notice this not least in the summer when a number of police stations are forced to shut down for reasons of personnel and resources, even though it is precisely in the summer that we need the police most because it is the most crime-active period of the year. Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, always better to be able to prevent crime successfully than to deal with the consequences by fighting crime. But the truth is, there are no silver bullets in criminal policy. The prevention of crime is important, and it is long-term. But in the near future we will not be able to prevent crime from low investigation results, the widespread police shortage in large parts of the country, the low wages, gang shootings or the large number of unsolved murders that we have in Sweden. In other words, resources are also needed here and now to deal with the ongoing security crisis. Having said that, I think it is a good thing that the government has presented a new crime prevention programme. The former was from 1996, and both crime and society, of course, are quite different today from 20 years ago. All crimes are committed in a municipality, as you know. It is therefore important that the municipalities' responsibility for crime prevention is clarified, and I think this is done quite well in the letter. I also think it is important that crime prevention work should be anchored in the political leadership of the municipalities. The management must have ownership and responsibility for the crime prevention work. Mr President, I would like to Police, of course, play an important and central role in crime prevention, since it is ultimately the individual local police area that has the best overview of crime in a municipality. The engine of this work is municipal police, which through, for example, citizen dialogues and citizens' promises works to strengthen the local perspective. The aim of local police officers is both honorable and wise, but the actual implementation of this reform is being severely flawed. It is not, as many seem to believe, one municipal police per municipality. In many cases, a municipal police officer has four or even five municipalities to deal with at the same time. Sometimes they are municipalities with large geographical distances. We also know that municipal policemen are often overburdened with tasks – or eaten up if you like – by the municipalities, which finally found a contact point. Ultimately, this problem, like so many others in the police force, is about resource shortages and that there are too few employees in the police. A lot of cops are testifying to this. There is no time for crime prevention. But the police cannot and should not solve all the crime prevention work themselves. Social services and, not least, schools play an extremely important role. Research shows that those who succeed in school have 12 times the chance to avoid getting involved in criminal activities. Zero tolerance to bad schools is therefore very important – mainly for the children themselves, of course, but also because it, just like Petter, creates a stronger and more prosperous society. At regional level, staff and resources are now being set up on county boards to coordinate crime prevention. I think that is fundamentally good if it can reduce the gap between the national level and the municipal level in crime prevention. In conclusion, Mr President, the committee rejects the government's proposal to set up a national coordinator for crime prevention. There are strong reasons for that. Firstly, the government is carrying out reforms that strengthen Brå's national coordination responsibilities at both national and regional level. This means that there will reasonably be a functioning ecosystem at national level with Brå and ultimately the government, at regional level with the county boards and at the end of the line in the municipalities. Adding a national coordinator in this area to what I see as unclear tasks and an unclear mandate risks complicating rather than strengthening the prevention of crime. Secondly, it sets out very general formulations of what a national coordinator should actually do and achieve beyond concepts such as raising engagement, strengthening priority and supporting, stimulating and driving development. In my view, crime prevention is mainly about long-term and methodological work where local adaptation and coordination, as well as implementation and follow-up of clearly stated goals should be the focus rather than media attention and national campaigns.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1130	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the report of the Committee on Justice on the Government's proposal for a national crime prevention programme. In essence, the Swedish Democrats have no direct objections to the initiative. Trying to pool actions and common ambitions among a number of actors who usually do not have criminal or security policies on their table can lead to something good. On the other hand, we would like the programme to be more concrete or more ideologically clear so that we know just about what we can expect it to result in. In general, many measures in criminal policy are weighed between society's ability to prosecute crimes on the one hand and the protection of personal integrity on the other. The Swedish Democrats have a clear position in relation to you other parties. We have proposals that increase society's ability to prosecute crimes while many parties are not afraid to try out new proposals where personal integrity can to some extent be compromised. However, we have seen that several parties have approached the Swedish Democrats' corner with more proposals that give the judiciary greater powers. It is, of course, welcome, but your actions in this case are not capable of action. Regrettably, major disasters, media coverage of events or the like are required before you others are able to take a new and necessary position. It is not the power to act; it is simply the act of late. That you are acting in this way is because you are much more difficult to sanction repressive and decisive measures in your respective parties. You simply lack ideological support for being able to act in the face of present-day challenges. One example is the proposal for more camera surveillance. It is a proposal that the Swedish Democrats have pushed hard. We want the police to make it easier to use camera surveillance even in residential areas to a much greater extent than today. So far, I have not heard any other party push for that. The support for more camera surveillance has been easier for the Christian Democrats to support than for the Green Party and Liberals, and this is simply due to ideology. Now we have an investigation presented on Friday regarding easier use of camera surveillance. However, the texts still state that the investigation should ensure a high level of protection of personal integrity. Therefore, there is reason to suspect that, in the light of how you have discussed privacy in the past, the proposals are still unclear and do not result in any noticeable differences. For this reason, it is essential that all parties wishing to advance their positions on the issue of camera surveillance in each context show support for reservations aimed at this very point. Mr President, I would like to We definitely believe that personal integrity will be violated if police can set up surveillance cameras in residential areas where an estimated armed conflict may take place. But the only people whose integrity is actually violated by such an example are those who want to use firearms in densely populated residential areas – and, Mr President, what is the point of protecting the integrity of these people? We believe that promoting the use of camera surveillance would do well in an action programme for crime prevention, as there are many actors involved today in the purchase and operation of surveillance cameras. In my own municipality of residence Eskilstuna, the municipality has chosen to cover the costs of cameras and their operation. The material can be used by the police at a later date. But I also have a gloomy experience that the Social Democratically controlled municipality experiences uncertainty or unwillingness to extend camera surveillance to more places, even outside the centre core. We know that camera surveillance at parking spaces, for example, has counteracted trends in car fires. If it's burned anyway, camera surveillance has been crucial to the police to get a conviction after a car fire. Despite the fact that cars are burning around our country, very many municipalities are not doing enough when it comes to camera surveillance. Therefore, encouragement through a national crime prevention programme could serve as a necessary political support. Mr President, I would like to In our reservation, we have also chosen to address the issue of a new mandate to the Crime Prevention Council with renewed statistics on crime and origin, which may now be more important than ever. With the historically massive immigration we have had in the 21st century, knowledge of the impact of different cultures on crime is, of course, a prerequisite for understanding, preventing and taking the necessary measures to combat crime. If 100% of those who steal cars are young men, it is wrong to take action against older women to get to grips with the problem. If 100% of car accidents are caused by alcohol-affected drivers, it is wrong to make efforts with feminist crossing points to tackle the problem. And if 100% of sexual abuse is linked in a certain way to an individual immigrant group, it can give a hint of the underlying reasons for which we need to focus our joint work in order to get to grips with the problem. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I therefore support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 2.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1149	Madam President, I would like One might wonder if Adam Marttinen has even read this crime prevention program. He devotes 99.7% of his speech to talking about camera surveillance. You know as well as everyone else in the Committee on Justice, Adam Marttinen, that a number of proposals have been put forward for concrete measures to improve the possibilities for the police authorities, not least, to carry out camera surveillance. These aren't secrets. We've discussed it so many times. Your speech is characterised by hitting certain groups, against ethnic groups. It makes perfect sense because you belong to a racist party rooted in neo-Nazism. But you do not have the support of criminological research to do so. We know that social belonging, class access, is a far more important factor than ethnic background. This is what science knows. But you don't care about science. You're resistant to science. Or maybe you know about it and you're dishonest. It's also a variant. Your speech is one-sided, Adam Marttinen. When it comes to repressive measures, I can find it nice to have camera surveillance, not least on Stureplan, so that you can prosecute some hooligans who hang there and fight. However, personal integrity must also be protected. Don't you think personal integrity has any value?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1153	Madam President, I would like Personal integrity should of course be taken into account. However, there is a great deal of acceptance among the population to introduce camera surveillance to a much greater extent than today. Cops around the country say the same thing. Camera monitoring is a very valuable tool to tackle the problems that occur in many suburbs where there is a very low clearance percentage for many crimes, precisely because there is a culture of silence. The police do not receive witness information about the crimes committed there. Then you have to start working more proactively with camera surveillance, although for some individuals – most likely limited to criminals – it can be perceived as an intrusion into personal privacy. Why the Social Democrats defend the right of the criminals to privacy so strongly in this case, instead of protecting the victims of crime and the residents who are indirectly victims of crime, you have to answer for yourself, Petter Löberg. If I devote 95% of my speech to camera surveillance, it is because it is part of our reservation. Of course I want to explain our position on the matter. And perhaps it is also because our reservation contains the most concrete of what is written in the programme. As for the fact that only social background would be a reason for committing crimes, according to science, I think that the Social Democrats and the government are betraying many of the victims of, for example, sexual crimes. We know that not only social background has been the cause of many of the abuses that have taken place at festivals and in other contexts. There is a rather clear cultural character to this crime. I think that the Social Democrats and the government are betraying many victims, just as they are doing on many other issues, but especially on this issue.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1159	Madam President, I would like You have to try to be vigilant with what you say sometimes, Adam Marttinen. For example, you said a minute ago that I have said that social background is the only cause of crime. It's not, it's the most important cause of crime. There are many reasons why people commit crimes – at individual and social level. You can draw conclusions from sociological analyses or from a societal perspective. And then you have to take into account a lot of things. There may also be cultural aspects. We know that there are not least male cultures that have a very criminal attitude, for example in football hooliganism. The additional mission to Brå, as you propose, involves registering suspects after ethnic origin. We will never accept that. We need to find out if there are structures we need to deal with. If there is, of course we do. And we do so in many different areas, in residential areas, but also in places that are at risk of crime. That is the central point, not where people come from, but above all what they do and why they do it. And that is not connected with ethnicity in the first place, but with social factors and class. It's as simple as that.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1163	Madam President, I would like I and Petter Löberg simply have different views on what is important to prioritise. We want to commission the government to order a report from the Crime Prevention Council. There has been such a report before, whose measurement period ended at the turn of the millennium. After that, we have had a historically large immigration to Sweden, from culturally distant countries. It is clear that it has an impact on society. It has an impact on crime, too. If Petter has not paid attention to the news reports of sexual assaults on festivals and the like, I recommend that he do a little news search and a new analysis of why the new sexual assaults are taking place around our country. It has not only to do with social background and class affiliation. If you don't want to see it, you let down a lot of victims. Then you will turn a blind eye to many necessary measures, for example when it comes to working with integration and assimilation so that the people who have come to Sweden will become part of Swedish society, so that you get some kind of fundamental community on a value basis. Then sexual abuse that can have a racist character can be counteracted. I recommend Petter to do a little news search and consider how best to counteract crimes that do not only have social class and affiliation as their background.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1168	Madam President, I would like It is certainly a happy day today. First, a climate law is being debated in this House, and now we are going to discuss the government's letter Together against crime – a national crime prevention programme. It is the first initiative in 20 years that a government has taken to bring together work to prevent crime. It is very pleasing and long-awaited. Madam President, I would like Last Sunday, when I met the people of Järva's political week, the theme was security and how we combat crime. There was a demand for investment in welfare, for children to be able to cope with school. And there was a demand for more police close to the citizens. More efforts were simply requested to prevent crime in different ways. Crime prevention has many different dimensions, ranging from building a strong welfare state to setting locks and alarms on an individual villa. The aim of the crime prevention programme is to involve all the actors we need to prevent as many crimes as we can. Madam President, I would like The police have a clear mission to prevent crime. Many other activities, both state and municipal, non-profit and companies, have completely different objectives. But sometimes their activities are also crime prevention. Some also have as their main objective the prevention of crime. With this programme, we want to involve all these actors so that together and in collaboration we get the best possible results. The municipalities sit on an incredible number of possibilities. It is the municipalities that are planning residential areas. They can make it easier or harder for the police to intervene against crimes. They can make it safer or less secure for women who go home at night. Today, every third woman feels insecure. We want to get business on board. There are companies that have a business concept that in itself helps to prevent crime – I mentioned Lock & Alarm. Shop owners operating in vulnerable areas should be able to contribute to their being less exposed to crime and to reducing crime in the area. Civil society has a crucial and valuable role to play. The main purpose of the football club is not to make sure that the kids do not scribble and throw stones at the police, but it is a valuable side effect to what they do. There are associations that conduct defection activities from violent right-wing extremism. Women's shelters and crime victims' shelters are doing an urgent job that can be the determining factor in a woman who has lived with violence for several years to dare to take the step and seek help. Sobriety contributes to reduced alcohol consumption and thus reduced crime. Pensioners' organisations ensure that older people are given knowledge and tools to fight against fraudsters. We want municipalities to hook arms with these organisations and provide the necessary support to enable them, together with all the good forces in society, to focus on their core business. Madam President, I would like It is also very gratifying that the national programme has a clear gender perspective. We know that women feel more insecure. It is not only linked to the vulnerability to crime, it is also linked to experiences and fears. We need to make a strong effort to close the security gap that exists between men and women. There is also a clear gender perspective for those who commit crimes. There is talk of the importance of counteracting school failures. I agree with that. We have talked about the importance of young people getting jobs. I agree with that. It's absolutely central. But there is also talk of more peripheral factors such as the country in which one's parents were born. Ninety-eight per cent of all sexual crimes are committed by men. Therefore, I am incredibly pleased that the focus is now on the destructive masculinity standards that lie behind the idea of a man's right to restrict a woman's physical integrity. This is one of the most important aspects of crime prevention. Here the program follows the government's ten-year strategy to combat men's violence against women, violence in close relationships, violence in the name of honour, prostitution and human trafficking for sexual purposes. The National Crime Prevention Programme will involve a more structured, knowledge-based work involving more actors. It also means a holistic approach. More of the crime prevention work will be integrated into, among other things, the municipalities' ongoing work. More work will be done on the situational prevention. There may be camera surveillance in parking garages but not camera surveillance in every bedroom where rape is at risk. More research will also be used in the practical work. Madam President, I would like It is this and not because we politicians are making up our own solutions that we will achieve the greatest possible success. That is why I strongly oppose both the legal uncertainty of the Moderates and, in essence, the placard policy proposal on zone bans. It is that if someone behaves a little subjectively, this person should be able to be sentenced without trial to not being allowed to stay in a particular place. What worries me, however, is that some of the great ambitions that we seem to agree on will not lead to the great change that we want to see. With the announcement that the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats are now pushing through, a tool is removed from the crime prevention work, namely the national coordinator. The aim of the national coordinator is, among other things, to create media attention and commitment to these issues. At a time when municipalities and other organisations face many different challenges in many different areas, there is a risk that crime prevention work will be given a lower priority than it would otherwise have been given, and that is unfortunate. The bourgeois parties think that national coordinators are enough to prevent crime. The arguments are basically quite bureaucratic. You don't think it's a good model for organizing. In fact, no alternative for how to enthusiasm municipalities and other actors has been presented. I hope that we can work together to find a solution in this very important area. With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 5. Otherwise, I would like to thank the Government for its good work on a national crime prevention programme.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1188	Madam President, I would like I don't know how you do it, but when I go home late at night, I always have a key in my hand. It's a pretty ridiculous thing, because I don't know how to fight at all. I have no idea. But I always walk with the key in my hand as a kind of security. I have never felt safe outdoors, and I have never had reason to feel safe outdoors. There are men there – men I've been taught are dangerous, men running around scaring in the light track, men who are drunk, men who rape, men that I should beware of. I'll be careful not to wear too high heels, because then I can't run away from the men fast enough. Men are just dangerous. And then that key in your hand, at least hypothetically. Brå's latest figures show that I'm not the only one who's afraid. I am rather a small part of a large number of women who have become more afraid in recent years. And that is exactly what the structural sex power system has taught us – to be afraid. This is not a problem that every woman should solve individually through some kind of personal conviction that not all men actually rape and kill women. It is a structural problem that actually starts with the man, with the man norm and with why men use so hysterically much violence. The government's crime prevention programme is a good one that takes a big grip on crime prevention. It does not happen in a sammalsurium of harsher punishments and more policemen, but it is a work that takes place from the municipality to the state and in the sense that no one should be afraid when going home at night. Crime prevention works mainly through a good schooling, a strong welfare and an equal society. Sexualised violence remains one of the greatest threats to women's health and an obstacle to achieving an equal society. Violence is a daily feature of women's lives, and everywhere women's rights are constantly challenged in different ways both in Sweden and internationally. Men's violence against women does not exist in a vacuum, but is the ultimate expression of an unequal society. We must therefore see how masculinity norms, masculinity, power and violence are interrelated and how stereotypical gender roles affect men's behaviour and views on women and LGBT people in particular. We must do this so that we can then take action and finally achieve a society free from sexual violence. A national action programme against rape and sexual violence needs to be developed. The Left also believes that sex and cohabitation education needs to be developed, that feminist self-defense should be introduced into grade 7 and sexist advertising should be banned. We want to increase gender competence and strengthen gender equality work in preschool and school, as the basis for the conceptions of gender and sexuality that characterise our entire society is established there already at a very early age. We in the Left Party are very pleased and proud that we, together with the government, have agreed to set aside money in the budget to finance the introduction of mandatory elements on men's violence against women and violence in close relationships in a number of training courses for professions where you just meet vulnerable women and children. It will be compulsory education for doctors, lawyers and sociologists. In the Crime Prevention Council's 2016 Security Survey, one third of the women surveyed said that they felt either insecure, very insecure or that they do not go out into their own residential area late in the evenings. Only a tenth of the men answered the same. This is one of the reasons why crime prevention in general and urban planning and housing planning in particular need a clear feminist perspective. But it is possible to do certain things to create security, such as planning cities better. You can build cities and residential areas so that they feel and feel safe. The Left Party has long been pushing the issue of feminist urban planning. In Stockholm City, where the Left Party sits as part of the majority, we have made sure to include demands for feminist urban planning in the owner's directives for the city's housing companies. Ultimately, this is a question of democracy. The public space belongs to everyone and must therefore be safe and welcoming to everyone, no matter who you are. It's about simple things. Well-lit walking paths are important to increase security, but above all, the public space needs to once again become an important place that concerns us all. Madam President, I would like Although it is the municipalities that have planning monopolies and have urban planning at their disposal, the government should be able to take measures to stimulate and encourage a clear feminist perspective in urban planning and housing construction. The government should therefore come back with proposals for measures aimed at encouraging and stimulating the existence of feminist urban planning and housing. I won't have to go home with the key in my hand. No one should have to. But I'm not the one who should change my mind. It's the men. That is why crime prevention is important, and that is why it must permeate everything in society. It is basically a feminist question. I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1202	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that the Liberals support the handling of the letter by the majority of the committees and the motions we have tabled. We have no reservations. On the contrary, the Liberals may approve by a majority in the committee of their proposals not to appoint another national bureaucrat, in this case a national coordinator under the Criminal Prevention Council. I have looked at the budget for crime prevention. 25 million are already earmarked for regional coordinators for crime prevention. Here is now another red tape and a further erosion of the budget to go to the local crime prevention work. So we should primarily earmark this for more bureaucrats in the state administration. If you are serious about this, I think it is completely wrong and irresponsible. Several government representatives have spoken here about anything other than the content of the crime prevention programme. It is an indicator that this is nothing concrete. It's about anything and everything. What does it mean to reduce the motivation to commit crimes? What does it mean to increase formal and informal control? That is how the report quotes the programme. This is incomprehensible. Even I, who have been on the committee for many years, do not really understand what you are looking for. In what way should local crime prevention be properly and concretely stimulated and supported? For example, Madam President, we ourselves are raising the need for camera surveillance. There is a summary in the report that this is an important measure. The Liberals' budget allocates 40 million more than the government does under the heading To this will be added the resources we devote to the local work against violent extremism. Do not come here to the House and say that we in the other parties do not give priority to crime prevention! That's not true. We have more money for local crime prevention, and I am now addressing the Green Party. As far as the Council's mandate is concerned, this may sound like something extraordinary and new. But I have looked at a number of regulatory letters, the government's mission, to this authority. Let's look at this year, 2017. The Authority shall develop, gather and disseminate knowledge. It shall stimulate, analyse and evaluate crime prevention activities deemed to be of interest. It is also an expert authority in the field of statistics, particularly in the field of criminal policy. It's about hate crimes, sexual crimes and women's defamation. The agency already has an extremely comprehensive, broad and heavy mission and does not need new national crime prevention programmes. This is already being done. Why didn't you say that from S, V and MP when you spoke? The Crime Prevention Council is already doing all this with its 111 million kronor. There are also criticisms of the Crime Prevention Council, but we can discuss this in another context. The Liberals will not be calling for this document to be rejected, but if it had been a proposal, I would have done so because this is not concrete. It is not hard enough and effective but too fuzzy and fluffy. But this is a letter from the government, and it will be added to the documents. On the other hand, as far as the national coordinator is concerned, we really want to indicate our rejection of more of them. Regarding the municipalities' commission to work crime prevention, we in the Liberals have proposed that municipalities in the Municipal Act should be required to work crime prevention. That is not the case today. I believe, however, that you have called for our motion to be rejected. In fact, this could have been a real tool in municipal work. In Mr Brå's own evaluations, which came one and two years ago, and our report states that there are shortcomings in the priorities of municipalities. But there are also shortcomings in the police. I will not go into the situation of the police during the last minute of my speaking time. We all know, however, that the police are a very pressured authority. What really drains resources is the crime prevention work, getting more visible police officers out, and getting more district police officers out, who are going to do exactly what many of you expect them to do. But the big question is, who's gonna do it? The police do not currently have the time, resources or capacity to prevent crime, because that is not a priority. I think that we should be extremely careful, Madam President, when we exaggerate the importance of this type of programme and, not least, give the impression that this is not being done. It's obvious. The Crime Prevention Council conducts national security surveys. They make specific programmes that are reported annually, and I think that is a good thing.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1214	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that Roger Haddad takes in from his toes as he boasts about how the Liberals are now investing in crime prevention. In fact, his party for eight years in the government did not add a crown to that part of the Crime Prevention Council's activities. During our first study visit with the committee at the Crime Prevention Council, they noted that in practice this meant cuts, because price and wage increases were not compensated. Most of the work of the Swedish Crime Prevention Council is about keeping statistics, collecting knowledge and writing reports. It's incredibly important. But what we are talking about now is above all the concrete support that many municipalities are asking for. We know that the work varies greatly in the municipalities. There are large municipalities with a lot of muscles and resources and a well structured work with employees that absorbs the knowledge and research available. There are also smaller municipalities that have less resources to carry out structured crime prevention work. Perhaps there is a person in the municipality who has to lead this part of the work alongside many other important tasks. This is why the government has strengthened both the Swedish Crime Prevention Council and the county boards and given them a regional mission to work to ensure that as many people as possible in the municipalities get a knowledge-based and quality-assured concrete work. I have to say that I still do not understand why we say no to efforts if we think that crime prevention is important and want municipalities to give priority to this.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1218	Madam President, I would like We do not say no to stakes. We say no to more national coordinators. We say no to regional bureaucrats on the county administrative board who eat up the budget. It is not the regional person on the county administrative board who will work operationally, but it is my comrades and colleagues and our citizens in Västerås who will do so. It's social services and school staff. It's City Cooperation, working on city development. It's the district police, if there are any. They're the ones who're supposed to do all this work. But not a single comment on it was made by the Green Party. The Green Party does not recognise that we are spending 40 million more under the heading. We spend more money than your government does, Annika Hirvonen Falk. That is what is relevant and to be discussed. But we give support directly to the business, not to more coordinators.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1220	Madam President, I would like Well, I admit it, but at the same time, what I am pointing out is that the Liberals are only going to do this now, after three years of opposition. When you really had the power to influence, you didn't make these efforts. Twenty years were allowed between national crime prevention programmes. The Liberals now want to delete the strategic efforts made by the government to strengthen local crime prevention. I find that very sad, and it is very bad that people say they want crime prevention work. The fact is that a negative announcement has now been made in violation of Swedish constitutional practice to prohibit the government from adding one of the elements to the strengthened crime prevention work without at the same time pointing out what to do instead. We cannot pretend that the pot of money for the person who would work for two years to involve more municipalities in the dissemination of this national programme could be useful if we pampered it into more district policemen, social secretaries and schools. It's not proportionate. The only thing that is being done here is to remove a rather powerful tool, which is intended to drive forward the priority of crime prevention and knowledge of the national programme, and to replace it with absolutely nothing. In practice, therefore, it is a reduction in ambition that results from the announcement by the Liberals.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1223	Madam President, I would like We want municipalities in the Municipal Act to be required to work crime prevention. We propose such a requirement. You didn't suggest that. But that's how you control from the national level. It is we who spend 40 million on increased resources for the municipalities in order for them to be able to work on these issues at all. This is something that municipalities cannot afford or capacity to do. We're putting more money into the police to get more district police to work crime prevention. We also had an announcement on 30 March about increased camera surveillance against which you reserved. The Crime Prevention Council already has a mandate to develop research studies, data and statistics and support municipalities. The Green Party goes untruthful. The Green Party is exaggerating. And the Green Party definitely exaggerates the role of the proposed national coordinator for two years. It is you who have been in power for almost three years. Why is this bet coming now? You're in power, not me.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1228	Madam President, I would like Let us be honest and say what this debate is really about: a change of position in Swedish politics. It has been a while since it happened, so you hardly notice it anymore. But it was when last week I got a hug from an Afghan girl, who outside the Parliament House manifested his concern about the forced expulsions that take place to Afghanistan, that I realized that I have gotten used to it. I've gotten used to the hard tone. I've gotten used to undocumented hunting. I have become accustomed to border controls being something that is needed. That's why I needed that hug last week – to be reminded that we all need to take care of each other. I refuse to get used to it. Border and ID controls are part of the political power game. But it's part of the game that's different, because it's the part of the game that takes people's lives. It is the part of the game that sends people back to death. A year ago we debated another position change, the one about ID controls. There was a gap in the law that meant that the ID checks would not apply for two weeks during the summer. First, it was the Swedish Democrats who highlighted the issue. Then it was the turn of the government. The hatch would be clogged, and it was urgent. It was so urgent that even referrals could not take place. That's what a position change looks like. I said then in that debate that I was ashamed of those who voted for the Social Democrats or the Green Party and believed that they voted for solidarity, community and a humane and dignified refugee policy. I'm still ashamed. I'm proud to be part of the only party that's still fighting. The Left Party wants a humane and welcoming refugee policy in Sweden and Europe. Everyone should have the opportunity to seek protection from persecution and be able to have their asylum reasons tested in a legally secure way and given good opportunities to start a new life in their new home country. It is through an expanded and well-functioning reception system that we are dealing with the fact that a large number of people are going to Sweden and Europe, not by closing the borders. The Left Party was opposed to the proposal to introduce border and identity controls when it was adopted in Parliament, as we were opposed to extending and removing the withdrawal period for controls. The introduction of border and identity controls has resulted in restrictions on the right of asylum which the Left Party strongly opposes. The Left Party also does not share the view that public order and internal security are or have been under threat. One of the arguments used for the introduction of controls was that it would force the other states in Europe to take greater responsibility. We, for our part, expressed concern that the introduction of controls would lead to a domino effect with closed borders throughout Europe as a result. That is exactly what has happened now. The introduction did not lead the other countries of the EU to take greater responsibility but had the direct opposite effect. The borders between the states of Europe are now closed almost everywhere to people on the run. New repressive proposals are being put forward at a rapid pace. Agreements are being signed with Turkey, Afghanistan and a number of African countries, and aid efforts are being made to stop people fleeing. It is a dangerous development that jeopardises the right of asylum and human rights. The Swedish National Audit Office has now reviewed the border controls and believes that instructions, control and follow-up have failed from a central point of view. Serious criticism is being levelled at the government. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the Government should have taken greater responsibility to ensure that there were adequate decision-making documents and adequate follow-up of the efforts. The deficiencies in the government's documentation, says the Swedish National Audit Office, make it somewhat unclear what the government's decision has been based on. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the extension of border controls without proper control and follow-up has led to risks, especially since the police are already in a strained situation. In this context, we should remind ourselves that the Police Authority not only abstained from requesting the introduction of border controls but opposed it. The police opposed the introduction of border controls. The government thus withdrew the regime laid down in the Aliens Regulation, which means that it is the responsible authority that is to submit a request for the reintroduction of border controls. There is a great deal that needs to be addressed when it comes to border controls. The Left Party agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations on a clearer division of responsibilities between authorities and on police contingency planning. Above all, however, we must have a government that stands up for the right of asylum and does not banish children of countries in which war is taking place. It's a government with a lot in its back and a big and red pounding heart. That government does not exist today. But there is one party that will never give up, which will always fight for those who are struggling and who will always stand up for the right of asylum. I'm a member of that party. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1241	Madam President, I would like I would like to spend my time debating what the committee's report is about and not migration policy. I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the Committee on Justice's report 25 and for the reservation to be rejected. Through constitutionally protected independence, the Swedish National Audit Office has a strong mandate to review state authorities and operations. The Swedish National Audit Office examines whether the authorities comply with directives, rules and regulations, whether they achieve their objectives and whether government efforts are effective and socially beneficial. The Swedish National Audit Office is an important part of the parliament's control power and must check that the government and the authorities are doing their work. If shortcomings are detected, they should be reported, and the Swedish National Audit Office also gives recommendations to improve operations. As the sole authority, the Swedish National Audit Office can review the entire chain of decisions – the Riksdag, the Government and the authorities. In the vast majority of cases, Madam President, the Government follows the recommendations of the National Audit Office and takes action based on them. However, this is not the case with this report on the establishment of temporary border controls at internal borders. The Swedish National Audit Office considers that the Government's decision to reintroduce temporary border controls was unclear and that the management and follow-up of the operation was inadequate and that the Government should have taken greater responsibility for the design of border controls. In addition, the Swedish National Audit Office believes that there should be a review of the Aliens Act and the Aliens Regulation. The government does not share this assessment, nor does the majority in the committee, either that there was a lack of clarity, a lack of governance during the period in question, or that there is a need to review the Aliens Act or the Aliens Regulation. As far as the government's decision is concerned, it is the view of the government, which also shares the majority in the committee, that it was clear from the decision what the serious threat was and that it was to be met by the reintroduction of border controls. Both the Police Authority and the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency had pointed out that there was a serious threat to public order and internal security and that the situation was putting great strain on key functions of society. The detailed design of the controls was transferred to the Police Authority in the Government Decision, which is the way in which government control is normally carried out. Madam President, I would like We have independent authorities. Neither the Riksdag nor the Government shall govern in detail the manner in which an authority carries out the tasks assigned to it. The government sets a target but leaves it to the authority to decide how the target is to be met. Although this was an extraordinary situation, no exception was made to this principle. The Authority was given the necessary freedom to design the checks on the basis of its strategic and operational considerations and assessments. I think it is very important to actually stick to this principle. It is the Authority that has basic knowledge even if the situation is not ordinary. Moreover, if the government had departed from the principle in this case and described the design of the reintroduction of temporary border controls in more detail, it would have been in danger of delaying important operational decisions since the Authority had then had to return to the Government in order to obtain a new decision. The Government considers that the follow-up was sufficient and that the basis for the extension decision has been adequate. The committee shares this view. This was conducted throughout the current period of dialogue and reconciliation with representatives at different levels within the Police Authority and the Migration Agency. Updates to the situation and situational images were also taken from the Swedish Civil Protection Agency. The view was that the introduction of temporary border controls had had the intended effect. This conclusion, together with an up-to-date update of the situation, formed the basis for the decision to extend border controls. Regarding the issue of updating the police's existing contingency plans, which the Left Party highlights in the motion, is the criticism that the National Audit Office is making against the Police Authority and not against the government, so we should not deal with this at all. The Aliens Act regulates issues such as the application, the examination of expulsion and the handling of the matter of supervision and detention. Madam President, I would like A law can always be reviewed and reviewed. However, neither the majority of the committee nor the government believe that the Aliens Act is unclear and should be reviewed due to the division of responsibilities between the Police Authority and the Migration Agency. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal that the Parliament include the letter from the Government in its documents.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1257	Madam President, I would like Border controls introduced by the government have not led to more countries in Europe taking joint responsibility for all asylum seekers who came in 2015. Rather, they have led to a domino effect where more and more countries have closed their borders, and they are now closed almost all over Europe. At the same time, we see that the government is forced to deport unaccompanied children and young people to Afghanistan. A few days ago, we read that a youth who previously lived in Sweden was killed in a terrorist attack in Kabul. What the government is also concerned with is age writing, uncertain assessments and forced expulsions to Afghanistan of children who have grown up in Iran. The Left Party supports the massive popular movement that is currently being developed by committed parents, good men and is fighting for the right of asylum. We support # we do not stand out and the requirement of amnesty for unaccompanied children and young people who have been in Sweden for more than a year. We cannot expel young people to a country in which they have not grown up. We cannot expel young people to an uncertain future or even death. But that is what is happening today.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1262	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, border controls were introduced because the Police Authority and the Civil Protection Agency pointed out that there was a threat to public order and internal security and that the situation that arose when a large number of refugees arrived at the same time brought great strain on socially important functions. The expected impact of border controls was also achieved. I do not want to debate the rest of Linda Snecker's speech here today, because it is a matter for the Social Security Committee, not for the Committee on Justice. Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the establishment of temporary border controls and whether the government had a proper basis for making the necessary decisions. We believe that this was the case.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1265	Madam President, I would like This basis for decision is not considered by the Swedish National Audit Office that the government had. We are debating this issue today because the Swedish National Audit Office has examined the government's basis for decision and follow-up and has condemned the government on these points. It also criticises the fact that the government, despite the fact that the responsible authority, the Police Authority, did not speak and did not want border controls, nevertheless introduced border controls. It is remarkable to hide behind the title of what we are debating today and to believe that border controls do not have an impact on the right of asylum and on the expulsion of children to unsafe countries. It is hiding behind a policy that I know does not support the whole of the Social Democratic Party. It's hiding and not wanting to take responsibility. I think Helene Petersson just as I've received hundreds of emails in a couple of weeks from movement # we don't get it. Here, good men and families who have taken care of these children and committed themselves to our society to help people about the forced deportation of these children to a country full of war and terrorism. To hide behind and defend the border controls introduced by the government and which have not proved to have worked according to the Swedish National Audit Office's report is not to want to take full responsibility. When I go into the home page for # we don't stand out I see 16 environmental party logos, 3 logos from Green Youth, 3 from the Social Democrats and 3 from SSU. I also see a number of Socialist Members of Parliament in the Committee on Justice who do not support this policy.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1271	Madam President, I would like I'm glad Linda Snecker has this commitment. She shares it with many, both within our party and within other parties. But that is not the issue today. Linda Snecker says it hasn't worked. Yes, the expected effect of border controls was achieved. The Swedish National Audit Office has not pointed out any shortcomings there. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the government should have had a larger basis. The government does not share that assessment, and neither does the majority of committees. It was an extraordinary situation. The authorities were contacted, and there was a dialogue throughout. Together, it was decided that border controls needed to be extended. There was a basis. It is possible to create a basis in different ways, and the government made the assessment that the basis for the decision was adequate.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1275	Madam President, I would like We in the Moderates believe that the Swedish National Audit Office's report gives the government justified criticism in some parts. The need for the establishment of temporary border controls due to the massive influx of asylum seekers to Sweden in 2015 is difficult to question. Based on an overall assessment, in which the Migration Agency, the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency included alarming reports, the Government decided that border controls should be introduced. This decision was, in the opinion of the Moderates, correct to take. The justified criticism that I first mentioned lies in what the Swedish National Audit Office states in its report on governance and follow-up. The Swedish National Audit Office writes on p. 5 in its report: The Government left this issue entirely and without further guidance to the Police Authority. It was indeed the task of the Police Authority to implement the border controls decided by the government, just as Helene Petersson mentioned. However, it was also the responsibility of the government to ensure that the Authority was in a position to carry out the mission in the best and most effective way. Similarly, it was for the government to obtain the necessary evidence to form an idea of the effectiveness and design of the controls and whether they met the Government's stated objective of the operation. The latter was particularly relevant to the question of the possible extension of border controls. This did not do the government to the extent it should, but the responsibility was placed on the Police Authority to solve the task with its scarce resources. We therefore share the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that criticism should be directed at the government in terms of how the mission to the Police Authority was designed and how the continued governance, control and follow-up of the decision took place. Furthermore, no follow-up of the costs of the operation and any displacement effects in other activities of the police have been carried out and unfortunately not requested by the government. We consider this to be a major shortcoming in both the Political Authority and the Government's management of the operation. Madam President, I would like An authority must have control over its expenditure and the impact of commanding to other activities on the performance of other necessary tasks. The cost of the operation in the area of border control is considered to be substantial, and most police regions have talked about displacement effects on other activities. The government has not acted on these warning signals but only referred to the Police Authority to solve the task – point. We believe that the government should have acted more proactively and taken greater responsibility for the follow-up of the operation, both financially and how the operation otherwise affected other parts of the police activity. The government's action to take decisions that the authorities are completely unprepared for goes again. As late as the beginning of May this year, a similar decision came which shows that the government has not taken the slightest note of the criticism made by the Swedish National Audit Office against border controls. This time it was about the removal of the ID checks, a decision that has in no way been communicated in the past to either the Police Authority, the Migration Agency or other relevant authorities and organisations. With the removal of the ID checks, it was promised that the border control would remain – virtually – and also be strengthened by the Police and the Customs Administration. Reinforced border control was perceived by many as a comprehensive control at our borders, but the truth is that none of the law enforcement and controlled authorities knew about the government's decision and were therefore completely unprepared for the new mission. The head of the police was with us in the Committee on Justice last week, and on a question from me about the introduction of reinforced border control, he said that it should be called partial border control. This very badly rhymes with the reinforced border controls that were promised at the press conference when the ID checks were removed. Only in September, the chief police officer announced, can work on the reinforced border control possibly get under way. It will therefore take four or five months – May, June, July, August and perhaps September – before border control can start on a full scale. It is then down to a dangerously low level in comparison with the government's pledges. The fact that this applies to the summer months, for which the border police have clearly warned is the time when the flow of refugees to Sweden is greatest, makes it all more worrying. The government's answers to questions about this decision are very similar to those that the National Audit Office criticises in its report, which we are debating today. You don't take on the criticism. The government again lacks control, follow-up, communication and analysis towards the authorities that will carry out the work. The responsibility is put in place to carry out a particularly difficult task – really an extraordinary event, as Helene Petersson said – for authorities, in this case the Police Authority, without providing additional funds and guidance for this. Our authorities will then conjure their knees and try to cope with the extra tasks within their normal business and budget. Everyone understands that this entails major problems, displacement effects and expensive temporary solutions – all except perhaps the government, which again makes the same mistake and places all responsibility on the shoulders of an authority, without the necessary compensation. Perhaps this is a way to shift all responsibility and, instead, to demand responsibility from a government. I think that this is a badly managed leadership and reckless management of the staff who are doing their utmost on a daily basis to carry out their important work in the best possible way. The Swedish National Audit Office's report also states that of the five conclusions drawn by the Swedish National Audit Office concerning border controls, one applies to the Government's part, while four concerns the Police Authority. I understand that, because the police authorities were not given the opportunity to do this and were given the task of solving it in their lap. Madam President, I would like We shared the government's view on the necessary need to establish border controls. It was necessary. It was the right decision to make. However, we strongly disagree on the responsibility of a government to obtain the necessary basis for decision-making, to provide guidance and support to the relevant authorities and to monitor the impact of its own decisions. The government rejects all criticism, but good leadership should require both humility and insight in giving its authorities the actual conditions to be able to carry out their work in the best possible way. The government is failing in this, and I can only regret that. Madam President, I would like I cannot insist on better government authority management, so I am content with the hope that the Government will heed the Swedish National Audit Office's justified criticism of governance and follow-up on this issue.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1298	Madam President, I would like I just want to ask Anders Hansson a question: are you behind the committee's proposal or not? When I listened to the speech, it seemed that you did not support it. However, I am aware that there is neither a motion nor a strengthening of the reservation that exists, but I understand that the text of the majority applies to everyone except the Left Party. Is that clear?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1300	Madam President, I would like We do not have a specific opinion on this. We do not really have anything to do with a follow-up motion on the report. Regarding the point of the five for which the Swedish National Audit Office criticised the Government, we actually felt that the Government was right: There was no problem with the different legislations that Helene Petersson mentioned earlier. The other four points concerned the police's ability to do the work that the government had given them. In this case, I think that the Police Authority has carried out what they have been able to do with the conditions and the notice they had when it comes to carrying out border controls. We think that they have tried to solve the task in the best way, and that is why we have not put any more burden on them by saying that the police authorities should do one or the other. Instead, we are criticising the principal of the police, which is the government, which did not send enough resources for the extraordinary event of the introduction of border controls. Furthermore, as I hope I was careful to say, we fully agree on the establishment of border controls. The need and purpose were definitely right, but the government's management of governance and follow-up can be done better.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1305	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Anders Hansson whether he has forgotten that last year's spring change budget contained 700 million to the police for the reinforcement of resources that the government and the committee considered necessary. Then there was a staff problem-- we don't get it under control. It was hard to get staff. It has worked extremely hard to find civilian workers, so as not to burden the profession of police officers. I would appreciate it if, when one is behind the proposal in a report, it were highlighted and it did not sound like one feels at all in the speech.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1308	Madam President, I would like The 700 million tend to haunt quite a lot in our debates. I don't know how many times this 700 million has been mortgaged for all kinds of things between heaven and earth in the Police Department. The chief of police has even said that they were already committed last year, so the 700 million seems to be living their own lives. On the other hand, it is good to add more to the agency, but it will need a lot more money to the police authority. As a resident in the southern parts of Sweden, down in Skåne, I see the border controls and also see what concerns they have caused for commuters but especially for the police organisation Polisregion Syd, which constantly needs to take staff from the surrounding municipalities to work with border controls. This leaves white spots on the police map in many municipalities. Many municipalities say that they do not have any district police because they are all assigned to border control. It's a big worry. All of a sudden, crime in a municipality that has previously been spared it is increasing. Why? Well, because there's no cops on the scene. They've been assigned to border control. This is a huge concern, I would say. It must be resolved, and it has not been done. Here, only a very difficult task has been assigned to the police to be carried out. I believe that the government has a responsibility in this context. When you give such a difficult task, you have to control precisely by means. We're not going to go into detail on how the police are going to solve this. But here you have to give the police authority the prerequisites for it to do its job. In this case, I think it is flawed. Otherwise, Helene Petersson, we agree.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1313	Madam President, I would like I had prepared a rather bureaucratic speech to the debate on the National Audit Office's report on the establishment of temporary border controls at internal borders, because it is basically a rather bureaucratic and dry matter we have to debate. The issue is that our state independent national audit has examined the decision-making processes and the practical implementation of internal border controls and stated that it wants to see a change in the Aliens Act regarding the division of responsibilities between the police and the Migration Agency for persons entering the country who have not yet been registered as asylum seekers and four points relating to the police's practical implementation of border control. But after Linda Snecker's very committed speech on migration policy in general and on the Afghan unaccompanied children and young people in particular, who are currently in a very difficult situation in Sweden, I thought that the very good report that Helene Petersson has made on the matter in substance, in which we are in complete agreement, should suffice. I also support the proposal in the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs on this issue. I still feel that I would like to say a few words about the work that is going on in order for this group, unaccompanied children and young people, to have both a safer and more decent life in Sweden and greater opportunities to stay here and, for example, to remain in high school. It is a work that I and my party, and also many Social Democrats, think is important. Madam President, I would like First of all, we need to clarify that internal border control between Sweden and Sweden's neighbouring countries does not in any way restrict the right of asylum. This is important, because if we really want to seek solutions to the challenges that many people now see for their foster home children, for the children for whom they are good men or for their pupils in school, we need to know that border control does not in any way prevent a person from seeking asylum in Sweden. The person who comes to border control and says that he or she wants to apply for asylum is helped to apply for asylum in Sweden. On the other hand, the person who wants to come to Sweden, but who does not have the right to come to Sweden and who does not want to apply for asylum, is prevented from coming in if, for example, the purpose would be to engage in burglary or something else. What we saw, among other things, when internal border control was set up was that, among other unaccompanied minors, the authorities did not know where these children went. Border control was a way to ensure that these children, when they came to the Swedish border, could be helped to come to the reception units of the Migration Agency and seek asylum. We need to do a great deal for the children and young people who are now in Sweden. Some of them have been granted residence permits – temporary ones. We have ensured that they have the opportunity to complete their upper secondary education in Sweden and eventually, hopefully, have the opportunity to stay permanently here. But we also have the group that Linda Snecker spoke about. Yesterday, I heard the story of the 19-year-old who, for five months after being forced into Afghanistan, had not had a single hug. It may sound banal, but it does say something about the loneliness that this boy lives with in a country where he has not grown up, in a country where he knows no one and in a country where the number of terrorist attacks has increased sharply in recent years. Madam President, I would like The Green Party is working very hard in the government and in European cooperation to ensure that this fate does not happen to more people.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1323	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the Social Affairs Committee's report 21 Operation of university hospitals. The report is about the government proposal, which proposes that county councils should not leave the task of providing healthcare at a university hospital to anyone else. The Government is also proposed to be authorised to issue regulations on which hospitals are to be regarded as university hospitals. The bourgeois parties, including the Swedish Democrats, want to reject these proposals from the government. Madam President, I would like Sweden has seen a health care of the highest quality internationally, and comparatively it is given on equal terms to the entire population. But health care, which we often come back to, has major challenges. This is, for example, an ageing population with a high need for care and a very rapid medical-technical development that needs to be taken into account. But we can also see signs of inequalities in health and also in access to care. It is necessary to improve the efficiency of healthcare, to stimulate medical development and the dissemination of knowledge in healthcare to maintain quality. Madam President, I would like University hospitals have a central and leading role in the development of Swedish healthcare. Here there is a very close link between healthcare, research, education and development, which in turn is a prerequisite for other parts of the healthcare system to provide us with high quality care and according to modern standards. At university hospitals, the state and county councils collaborate to conduct research while monitoring developments internationally in order to implement and disseminate new evidence-based methods and knowledge so that they can benefit patients. There is also collaboration on the training of doctors, and there are very special demands on environments with the highest quality healthcare and explicit assignments on research as well as environments that stimulate creativity and innovation. Madam President, I would like It is also characteristic of university hospitals that so-called highly specialised care is carried out there. It is care that is often very complex and infrequent. Highly specialised care often requires a certain volume and the efforts of several different competences. Such care requires large investments and costs a lot of money if you are to have high quality and patient-safe care. Often there must also be preparedness to receive small groups of patients with rare conditions. This in turn means that university hospitals receive patients from county councils other than their own and also patients from other countries. Madam President, I would like For us Social Democrats, it is of the utmost importance that the activities of university hospitals are maintained, kept together and not fragmented in order to continue to develop their tasks. This position is also supported by most of the consultative bodies. As is well known, the Landstingen has great freedom to disaggregate the health care system as well as to decide whether the activity should be conducted by itself or by others. However, given the central role that university hospitals play in research, education and development – and therefore also in providing good care in the long term not only to the residents of the individual county councils but also to the residents of other county councils – it is reasonable, Madam President, to regulate the possibility of transferring care activities to others and thus fragmenting the activities in such a way as to make it impossible for hospitals to maintain the status of university hospitals in the long term. The Committee's bourgeois parties, including the Swedish Democrats, believe that the bill is unnecessary and that it tries to solve problems that do not exist. Unfortunately, reality speaks against them. See, for example, Stockholm County Council, where you take steps by step but not only with new healthcare choices – which is taking place against the will of patient organisations and the healthcare profession – but also shows a pronounced willingness to privatise another completely emergency hospital. One could well imagine that the moderate-led majority in Stockholm County Council privatises in its privatisation strategy if not all of it, at least parts of the university hospital. Then we can see in front of us private health galleries that are set up for care shopping, organised in separate units without cohesion and primarily serve to benefit healthcare companies and not the best interests of patients and society. That, Madam President, seems to us Social Democrats to be the wrong way to go. University hospitals must be kept together, and patients' needs must determine how we control care. In the report, the bourgeois parties, including the Swedish Democrats, claim that the proposal for legislation on the operation of university hospitals would hamper the development of health care and that the desirable and necessary transfer of care activities from hospital to primary care and other outpatient care would be made impossible. That is not true, Madam President. Anyone who has read the bill knows that it says that when county councils are not allowed to hand over activities from university hospitals to someone else, they mean by a company, an association, a community, a foundation, an individual or another county council. But, Madam President, you can also read in the bill that if a county council wants to hand over its head office for one particular activity to another county council, that is fine. Similarly, according to the proposal, it is excellent to reorganise and outsource activities within the county council from university hospitals to primary care or to another hospital. What the draft legislation aims to do is to prevent university hospitals or parts of them from falling outside public control, without the possibility of democratic governance, and thus becoming impossible to hold together around the mission. Madam President, I would like In the Swedish model, we Social Democrats want health care of the highest quality to be maintained in the future and to benefit everyone. We want healthcare to be governed by what is best for the patient and not by what is best for the healthcare companies. I call for the proposal in the report to be rejected and for our reservation to be accepted.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1339	Madam President, I would like For eight years, the previous bourgeois government chose to pursue the line of hard and fundamentalism: let us do everything private in health care! You hardly leaned towards any thick scientific investigations, but you chose to go the way neoliberals often do– you follow the ally of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and its active lobby network. Now you have also got your friend the Swedish Democrats on that journey. It is a party that supports you in wet and dry. However, we know that profit interests and private interests lead away from what welfare needs, i.e. a health policy that holds together and benefits research in the field that has meant so much to Swedish development. There are parts of healthcare and hospitals that have a strategically important function both in their healthcare region and for the whole of Sweden. It is about research, education and development power at our university hospitals. It is not reasonable that a county council can unilaterally decide on changes such as privatisations when it concerns considerably more than its own inhabitants, i.e. the whole of Sweden's research. In order to prevent the fragmentation and fragmentation of university hospitals, the proposal, which the former Alliance and the Swedish Democrats will solve tomorrow, proposes that we also continue to hold the university hospitals together and ensure the strategic parts of health care. We will have them in common and focus on the main tasks, such as health care, research, education and development work. The proposal states that county councils must not transfer the task of providing healthcare to a university hospital in a private healthcare provider. I will take Stockholm as an example, because it is a fantastic example of what has happened. In the big shop windows of the bourgeoisie, Stockholm County Council, Karolinska and Karolinska Institutet are now in danger of being seriously weakened precisely because of the privatisations. This threatens the quality, today's medical care and the competence of doctors and nurses, physiotherapists, occupational therapists and others who will take care of and develop the healthcare of the future. 50 doctors, professors, lecturers, specialists – the best we have in this way – have made a, if I may say so, very serious complaint to the politicians in the county council regarding the research, development and education conducted in Stockholm County Council. You may have heard that letter, but it does not sound like it. The reason for this is that the healthcare provided in county-run operations at KS and KI is transferred to other forms of care, to a large extent to what is known as a choice of care, without research and education being included. In a number of specialities, this has already meant that research has fallen sharply and that initial and further training has become more difficult – or in some specialities almost ceased. That's what it looks like in this county. The reason why research and education are so severely affected by healthcare choices is that the current care choice organisation with reimbursement systems leads to both fragmented care that does not benefit knowledge development and that the care selection units with today's organisation do not consider themselves able to conduct research or participate in basic or further education. This is happening today, out here. Stockholm has gone the longest and can be followed by more. It can happen anywhere in Sweden at the university hospital and in the county where the right wing – the former Alliance – rules and where the Swedish Democrats are hanging on. In some specialities of the Stockholm County Council, which is by far the most obvious example and which has a roofless choice of care, it has also involved draining competence from university hospitals. This applies not only to Stockholm, but to the whole country. It has affected the research, says these 50 professors, lecturers and so on. It is not the Left Party that says so. It is a common interest for the state and county councils that health care is developed and that resources are allocated for development and research. This provides a more efficient healthcare and a higher quality in the long term. It also provides improved health and benefits for patients. But you are prepared to sourca it out, just like everything else. University hospitals play a central role in medical development and care. They also play an important role in health care knowledge management. Much of the medical training is carried out at university hospitals. In order to ensure that future doctors have the clinical experience required by the profession, it is extremely important that medical students receive good education, relevant training and good supervision. For this, according to the government and the Left Party, health care environments are required that are adapted for this particular purpose. Since university hospitals have a central and leading role for other healthcare services, we believe it is important that these hospitals are not fragmented, as has happened in Stockholm, but are kept together within the county councils. According to the Government and the Left, there are therefore strong reasons to limit the possibility for county councils to hand over the task of providing healthcare at university hospitals to other private providers. But of course you say no. You have another agenda. Privatisation outweighs overall research and education. What is well research compared to a choice of care! It's embarrassingly frivolous of you to go sour the best that we have. I support the reservation of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1352	Madam President, I would like Here we are again. It has been quite a short time since we last had a debate on an issue that, like this one, is about something that is not actually one of the challenges of health care. We have a problem that doesn't really exist. There is a proposal from the government, which does not really explain how this could solve a problem that does not really exist. However, there is a risk that this would actually cause us to create new problems. University medical care is incredibly important. It is important that we have the conditions for research, that there is a lot of development and that it is something that benefits all citizens. It is important that this is spread throughout the country and that we are constantly doing everything we can to support all those who work with medical research and provide them with good conditions. But what is university medical care is not something that is once given. It was not certain that what was university health care on 1 July 2007 would be today. And this has been taken on board by the government's criticisms: The back-up to a date in July 2007 and freezing the time right there and then – that's what they backed away from. Instead, you want to freeze time now. It is said that what is currently a university hospital and university health care should continue to be so forever. This is done despite the fact that the consultation body after the consultation body – both authorities and those who are themselves caregivers in the form of doctors and nurses – have replied that they do not look at the care in this way. That is not how healthcare works, but there is continuous development every day, which means that what was very highly specialized yesterday is not today and definitely does not have to be tomorrow. Therefore, the government has completely the wrong starting point when you choose to stop time at a certain date and stop being open to development. Health analysis comments on the proposal by finding that the overall impact of the proposals on patients and citizens is not dealt with in the memo. The consequences for citizens such as this have not even been addressed – that's what health analysis says. It is pointed out that the motifs are vague and that there is a lack of comprehensive illumination of the consequences. It is also said that there is no clear-cut answer to the type of operation that generates the highest quality or is most efficient. The government has as a basic condition that the form of operation itself would be the decisive factor. But there is no basis for this view in the memo. Nor has it existed during the processing process, and it is not in any other material – at least not in anything that we or the responsible authorities in this area have been able to access. Statskontoret says that a ban covering all health care at university hospitals could make it difficult for county councils to organise healthcare resource efficient. It is not a dark majority in Parliament that expresses it with some strange intentions, but it is one of the authorities responsible for ensuring that the activities we carry out with taxpayers' money are as effective and well-functioning as possible. The Health Care Association says that starting from hospitals is based on a traditional approach to care, where buildings and houses come to the fore, instead of focusing on the activity and the level of care involved. Post-consultation referrals clearly support the fact that this is a product that should never have ever been put on Parliament's table. This does not solve a problem, because it is a problem that does not even exist. This government should put its gunpowder into tackling the challenges that healthcare faces. The real challenges should be addressed – in the growing queues and in confidence in health care, which is falling because the government spends time on shadow boxing rather than on health care development. With that, Madam President, I support the proposal in the report and therefore the motion in the Alliance's motion.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1367	Madam President, I would like You don't seem to think that there are any problems with sourcing out of parts of the university hospitals, as has been done here in Stockholm. You think it works great to go in and take out large businesses that do not bring opportunities for research and development or opportunities for doctors to be there. Because that's exactly what it looks like. There is strong resistance in the medical profession in Stockholm County Council, which has been the county that has gone the longest when it comes to outsourcing different parts of the university hospitals against this type of activity. There is opposition to not keeping hold of the activities of a university hospital but allowing it to travel all the way around the world. Don't you, Emma Henriksson, think that it can be problematic when there are so many people who have looked – on the floor – at what happens when you let parts of a university hospital privatise without research, education and development coming along? Isn't that a problem? Stockholm has gone first in the series of these hospitals, but we see a danger that this can develop in other regions. Draining research and education is something that happens daily in Stockholm. It is not that people are not discussing this. This is a problem. The healthcare elections and the privatisation of health care in Stockholm County, which has been your shop window, have to some extent been draining. A lot of people are very concerned about this. Isn't that a typical example of what happens when you let a university hospital go all the way around the world and it's finally just the building that's left?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1373	Madam President, I would like The fact that there are conditions for conducting research is important regardless of the shape of the hospital. These opportunities should be available in primary care. They should be in hospitals at all levels. University health care is an incredibly central part of healthcare, and it must have good conditions. But there's not even a definition of university hospitals. The government itself, and also the parties behind the government's proposals, say: We cannot really define that now. We want a mandate to define it afterwards. Thus, when you present the proposal yourself, you cannot say what it is that is today and therefore for all time to be regarded as a university hospital. The Law Council, too, strikes down on this and says that it is not enough. You cannot get such a mandate, because the government could say that you decide that all hospital care is university hospital. Now the government says, "We're not going to do that. That's not the definition we're going to have. No, but tell me what definition you're going to have! If you are going to make a proposal, you should know what it is for. A number of referrals indicate that it is very unclear. You also need to know what the mandate is. Is it to be able to run over those who are set to take responsibility? As a Christian Democrat, I would like us to have greater state responsibility for advanced hospital care. It is something that could create the conditions for more equal care. I have not seen any such proposals from the Left Party or government parties. When the Medical Association says that the proposal seems extremely counterproductive, I wonder why the Left Party does not listen to all the referrals.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1380	Madam President, I would like I am not going to go through all the referrals. There are many who are very positive too. Those who are most positive about keeping university hospitals together and not fragmenting are, for example, those who do research. KI, Karolinska Institutet, has been a spearhead. That's where the research has been. There is extreme concern in the ranks there. I can read straight away: The main reason for the problems is that, until recently, the health care provided by university hospitals is transferred to other forms of care, to a large extent to what is called care choices, without research and education accompanying them. Many of the leading professors and lecturers have written this in a public letter. It's not a small potato. Emma Henriksson and her party do not think it is a problem that the research in Stockholm at Karolinska, where 500 children are now in line for surgery and where you control and exhibit, is moved out. I think it is a mega problem when so many say this. It's obvious to me that you should keep the university hospitals together. It is extremely important to keep the hospitals together that have research, education and so on, because the care-whaleers, the private actors, do not guarantee it and do not have the conditions.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1384	Madam President, I would like It is an incredible responsibility for the health care principal how to regulate the agreements you conclude and also provide the conditions for research. If you believe that what at a given date exists within the framework of a hospital body and call it a university hospital and say that what is there now is what must forever be within these four walls and with this particular owner, then you do not believe that the care has the opportunity to continue to develop. And I can understand that if you pursue the policy of the Left Party, which on point-by-point is about removing the carpet and the conditions for health care to develop. One is not prepared to take advantage of the power and knowledge of the actors who enter the care system. Many times it is about caregivers who themselves say that they can operate better, that they are better at getting staff to thrive and better at providing them with the conditions. The committee has recently been in Västernorrland and seen the difference when the public operator has half of the staff as relay staff, while in the primary care that is run in another direction – yes, they also have challenges – is about 5 – 10% relay staff. In the area by area, there are examples of how other actors can be involved and contribute to healthcare. Now we are talking about forms of operation for university hospitals, and not on one point have I heard any of the representatives of the government or the Left Party explain what is actually the problem that the proposal would solve. There was also a lack of consultation bodies, including the important authorities responsible for the area. However, we have not heard any responses from the parties responsible for the proposal at all.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1390	Madam President, I would like Swedish healthcare is facing a number of challenges. We have one of Europe's longest waiting times. We have a staff flight that becomes even clearer, not least this summer. We have a clear demographic development where the most multisick elderly people are driven between home and emergency care instead of being cared for. There are major regional differences, and it is clear that it matters for what health care you get if you live in Halland or Jönköping or if you live in Västernorrland. Madam President, I would like Swedish health care has good medical results internationally, but it is quite difficult to get there, and that is not good enough. Then we can expect from the Swedish parliament that the responsible government, the responsible minister and the government parties will present so many concrete proposals for improvement that we can meet these challenges. Instead, a proposal is presented to the Riksdag, which means that county councils must not continue to develop health care. It is basically needs and problems that the county councils themselves do not experience. Madam President, I would like I therefore listened carefully to the interventions of the Social Democrats here to hear the reasons for the bill and why it is on Parliament's table. Like my alliance colleague Emma Henriksson, whose speech I agree with, I could not hear the reasons. Nor could the majority of the referral bodies, which were allowed to prepare the dossier. And the government's own expert authority The Law Council also sawed this bill along with the ankles. In part, it is because the government intends to make the proposal retroactively. Then the government intends to try to define something that is not defined today, but does not define it now, but then. The title of the proposal is University Hospital, but the Law Council notes that it actually affects all healthcare within the hospital walls. This means that the Social Democrats in the Government and the Riksdag, with their proposal, want to limit the possibility for someone else to conduct and develop healthcare in the area of Södertälje, for example, if you interpret what the Swedish Law Council writes. Madam President, I would like The government weaves fog curtains in the Swedish parliament instead of presenting concrete healthcare reforms for Swedish health care. This makes us extremely concerned. We now have many challenges. People have to wait instead of receiving care. Staff feel that they must not come to their own and develop health care. And the actors and principals who work in Swedish healthcare today say that the proposal is not for the development of healthcare, that the proposal is intended to inhibit the development of healthcare. Then the government should have not only a small problem but a very big problem. Madam President, I would like The majority of county councils, such as social democraticly governed Kronoberg, Östergötland, Örebro, Skåne and Dalarna, have similar concerns as for example the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. The highly talked about investigation Effective care is about that we will have more close care in Sweden in the future. Investigator Göran Stiernstedt is also clear that more from inside the hospital building must be moved closer. If it is so clear that one has chosen not to define what a hospital is, it is clear that one can hinder and inhibit the kind of development that basically everyone is waiting for today. When will the government's care reforms to strengthen close care? For example, the Authority's Inspection for Health and Care, which is also the government's own expert authority, makes it clear that future development proposals to strengthen the close care are being hindered. This is written by the authority in its own referral. It's in the Department of Social Affairs. That's where the government closed its eyes. This was not written into the proposal, but it continued to take it to Parliament. Now the hope is that tomorrow a majority of the Swedish Parliament will reject the proposal. No one's asked for it. The medical staff are thinking about what that means. The Health Care Association writes: As the proposal is written, it hinders the development and efficiency of healthcare. The Health Association, the staff, therefore, does not want the proposal. It doesn't solve any problems. This is a paper tiger which is basically a fog curtain in order to avoid talking about what we should really devote this debate to, namely the real challenges of health care. My specific question to Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson, the Social Democrats, is therefore: Which university hospital is it that Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson and the Social Democrats are concerned about? Which hospital would be put at risk and now makes this proposal? Maybe it's the university hospital at home in Linköping? However, the Social Democrats in Östergötland have not thought so, because they have sawed the proposal. Their own party colleagues back home in the constituency have thus sawed this, AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson. To conclude, Madam President, I come to my second question. You have now been in power for almost three years. The challenges of health care are growing. When's the bill coming? When will the proposals that can change and tackle the challenges come? When will we see them? Will they be on the bill list in September?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1403	Madam President, I would like Cecilia Widegren began her speech by listing the challenges facing Swedish healthcare. It was basically the same as I said in my speech. I think that is positive; it is good that we do the same analysis of how things are in Swedish healthcare and what it is that needs to be done. Cecilia Widegren goes on to say that this is an unnecessary legislative proposal and that we are breaking open doors. But let's look at what it looks like in reality in Stockholm County Council, for example. A lot of work has been done there. Thus, activities have been fragmented. Then there is a great risk of outsourcing activities that are closely linked to a university hospital. Cecilia Widegren devotes considerable space to talking about the definitions of a university hospital and what it is. It is difficult; it admits the government in its bill. The government also wants an authorisation under its constitutional responsibility to define it itself when necessary. I think that what is easy to define in health care, such as maternal health care or planned operations, is usually what private carers want and can do. They also usually do it well. It is easy to follow up, it is easy to procure and it is easy to specify requirements. I will come back to the more complex areas.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1408	Madam President, I would like We have major challenges in Swedish healthcare. Then we should not spend either energy, resources or commitment talking about what does not solve these challenges. Unfortunately, we have to spend an entire hour on this tonight instead of talking about the shortage of staff for the summer, about the care queues that are growing and so on. I can only agree with what the Social Democratically ruled county councils in Kronoberg, Östergötland, Örebro, Skåne and Dalarna say: This is a paper tiger. It's for paper cows. This does not develop health care, but rather prevents it. I had two concrete questions for Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson. First of all, do you agree with what your fellow party members in Östergötland say? They say: This is no concern, this does not concern Linköping University Hospital and we therefore think that this is a paper tiger. Secondly, what other hospital is it that Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson is concerned about and that is why the bill has come up at all? I would like these answers. We also call for responses to the challenges of healthcare. The Health Care Association, Sweden's nurses, are the ones who are currently on the barricades to ensure that education is strengthened in order to get both better work environment and better local leadership. They clearly write: This does not solve, does not develop and does not streamline health care. Come back with real suggestions! When will the real proposals come, AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson? Will they be on the bill list in September? This is the last chance for the government to show that they have made any difference in Swedish health care. So far, paper tigers have been presented. I believe that it is the third bill in the health sector that this government may withdraw or that is rejected in Parliament. It is a weak government that does not get through its own proposals.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1413	Madam President, I would like In order to be able to meet the challenges that we agree on, there are for Swedish health care, we need to have university hospitals. We must have university activities that hold health care, research, education and development together. It is in these environments that the solutions to the problems are born. This is where you can work with evidence-based methods, this is where the innovations are born and this is where the ideas are born to solve the problems. I can look at the previous, bourgeois, government that had eight years to come up with solutions for Swedish health care. The challenges are not new, but we have seen them for as long as I have been a health politician. The solutions presented at the time were privatisation and reduced taxes. Has it solved any of the challenges we see in Swedish healthcare, Cecilia Widegren? What worries me is that the privatisation urge we see in Stockholm County Council is also here in the Riksdag. The bourgeois parties often come back to the fact that the solutions that we are to launch to meet the challenges are more of care choices, more of privatisations – and reduced taxes, of course. It comes as cream on the cake. Is this what we are going to solve challenges for Swedish healthcare with? No, we are seriously concerned that a development will come about where important activities in county councils are put out in such a way that you cannot take them back. Then you cannot use them in the activities and in the complex environments that need to be in order to be able to research, educate and develop.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1417	Madam President, I would like We're worried. We are concerned that this government does not see the real challenges. The Landstingen has seen them because they have rejected the proposals. The expert authorities have seen them because they have rejected the proposals. AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson and the Social Democrats cannot talk here in the Swedish Parliament about which hospital they are worried about. It is certainly not connected with the hospital in its own constituency, because the Social Democrats in Östergötland are also opposed to the proposal. The only one in favour would be Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson, and I would like to thank her for the debate. The challenges now lie in tackling the real problems. We are concerned that you will not come up with the reforms. We're worried about that, and that's being worried for real. You have had three years, and there are no healthcare reforms presented. There are only paper tigers. Fortunately, the Riksdag decides that these paper tigers are not needed. Now you should take the opportunity to take the bill list and the last opportunity in September to come back with the care reforms. The Alliance government made sure to halve care queues, to create more training places for both nurses and doctors, and to enable people to choose in close care. Today there are about 5 million visits to the close care of another principal. This allows healthcare professionals to choose their employer. We will ensure that this development continues so that healthcare professionals are able to speak more, be more visible in close care and develop it even more. We should not put any wet blankets over that development, which should basically be given even more resources and opportunities. We weren't happy. We are prepared to come back and present new concrete health care reforms. The alliance parties are preparing for this – the sooner, the better.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1423	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the Bill Forms of operation for university hospitals. I am sure the government has good intentions with the proposed legislative proposal. It highlights the important work that university hospitals do. However, as so many times in this legislature, the government is trying to solve a hypothetical problem through this bill. There is no discussion at national level about privatising university hospitals. In other words, privatisation is not even a topical issue. There have also been several referrals, including the Medical Association. There is a broad consensus that university hospitals should continue to operate in the public domain, and legislation that prevents the sale of university hospitals is therefore completely superfluous. ..................................................... We also reject the proposal because we believe that limiting the county councils' ability to hand over activities at a university hospital to any other provider could have negative consequences for the development of healthcare. One should remember that the health care system is constantly evolving. The diseases that today require access to advanced care in a university hospital may not necessarily do so tomorrow. We therefore fear that medical development and future level structure could suffer, which could ultimately impair patients. It is also an aspect that many county councils fear in their referrals. The Health Association, as we have heard here, is also opposed to the proposal on the grounds that it prevents the development and efficiency of university hospitals. Similar views have been expressed by Karolinska I nstitutet – that the proposal risks stifling the dynamics of the development of health care. The question is: where is the government's impact assessment for patients and citizens? Before presenting such a legislative proposal, a deeper analysis of the impact on healthcare in general but above all from a patient's perspective should be carried out. The government has not bothered to do so, which we deeply regret. Mr President, I would like to We believe that it is important that university hospitals should also be able to use other healthcare providers when it is deemed appropriate and effective, for example in order to shorten the queues for certain operations or to have rapid access to test results or results of X-ray examinations. In view of the current crisis in health care, with a lack of care places and cancellation of operations, we believe that new rules and prohibitions that may have a negative impact on the efficiency of healthcare should be avoided. In conclusion, we will reject the Government's proposal, partly because it does not constitute a complete basis for decision-making – which is astounding in itself – and partly because several heavy consultation bodies have clearly demonstrated major shortcomings and dangers in the proposal. We want to protect healthcare so that it can be developed and made more efficient because it benefits patients. Political proposals based solely on ideology and at risk of affecting the development of health care and therefore patients are not something that we, as a party, can support. Mr President, I would like to The organisation of health care should always focus on the best interests of citizens and patients. Care should be sought for the best possible quality of health care. The direction of the activity should be subordinate. Unfortunately, the government's proposal is just the opposite. There, the form of operation is more important than the content, which we consider to be deeply unfortunate. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1436	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are at the forefront and have become the new Health Party, I have heard rumours. But at the same time you have become the venture capitalists' own little boys. And when you invest in the gang here on the right, it is quite clear that you will also say yes to tax cuts – it did not go so well last time – and to more privatisation, because that is the solution. I have some concrete questions for you, Per Ramhorn. What is it that will be great when you are sourcing out a part of Karolinska Hospital and KI, Karolinska I nstitutet? What is it that gets so much better when you remove parts of it in healthcare choices but research, education and development are not included? It is simply being dumped because private venture capitalists are not interested in taking it further, as the 50 researchers, professors and lecturers point out. What is it that gets so much better when you are souring out the university hospitals? I wonder a lot about that. Aren't you worried? I wonder, too. D u lives in Skåne, where it has not gone as far as here in Stockholm. But are you not worried when there are so many who say that the research that has existed and is still present at Karolinska I nstitutet and Karolinska Hospital is being drained because of the choice of care, because other actors are allowed to take part of the activity but do not take research or development with them? They also do not want to stand for further training of doctors. Isn't that a little risky, so to speak? Don't you think you should think about it?
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1439	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Karin. Karin Rågsjö is very focused on Stockholm, but Stockholm is not all of Sweden. There will be a lot of Stockholm here. Karin referred to research and went into Karolinska Institutet. But as far as I'm concerned, the referral bodies reject the proposal. This is really about university hospitals. It is remarkable that you do not go deeper into what the consequences will be for patients and citizens should your proposal go through. Several consultation bodies also point this out. There is simply no impact assessment.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1443	Mr President, I would like to That I talk so much about Stockholm County Council is because here the bourgeoisie has been in power for almost three terms of office. Here they have driven the care choice model, the privatisation model, all the way into the tile. You can now see quite a lot of the consequences of this, of mismanagement of health care. That's why 500 lines up to get operated on in this county. Children's surgery has to be handed over to other county councils now. That's a problem. Karolinska Hospital and KI also have very developed research. It's not small potatoes. We see the list of everyone who says that this has gone too far, that this is no longer working, that you can't sour out from university hospitals. It is clear that it will affect patients quite a lot if there is no research, development or education. The next stop on the road if Stockholm can continue is that it more or less collapses. It is not the case that those who take over health centres or specialist care – rheumatology, children's oncology and so on – go on and reinforce the research. This, then, ultimately affects the patients. I find it strange that the Swedish Democrats made such a rocking. After all, the Alliance is totally dependent on you to get through its various committee initiatives and you name it. That is the case – and you have become totally dependent on the Alliance in that way. It is a rather sad development, because you were the ones who opposed all this four years ago. But things happen along the way, and what do I know; maybe someone called from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1448	Mr President, I would like to No one has called from Svenskt N häringsliv, not to me anyway. As I said in my speech, there are certainly good intentions with the proposal. However, when making legislation, it must be based on facts and thoroughness. As I have said before – we have had this debate several times – one cannot just shoot from the hip when making legislation. You have to know what you're doing. This is precisely what several referral bodies criticise; it is in many cases a hafsverk. It's not the first time. A week ago it was health insurance, and before that it was the primary care choice. There will be the same response from heavy consultation bodies: this is not good enough. Nevertheless, the government should be a little self-critical and look at what makes you not get through your proposals. Would it have been possible to get the proposals through if the evidence had been better? Could it be that the government puts ideology ahead of patients' best interests? It's a question the government might want to take with it.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1453	Mr President, I would like to Once again, the Committee on Social Affairs is debating a government proposal which I wonder why it has been put on the table at all. I also believe that many of those who have listened to the debate are asking that question. Swedish healthcare is facing huge challenges. Only half of all Swedes have a permanent medical contact in primary care. The lack of specialised nurses is excruciating. Queues are growing. And more and more patients have to wait months to see a specialist or to receive a treatment. The government's proposal is not about these important issues. Instead, it is time and effort that it is forbidden to sell university hospitals to the highest bidder. But no one has proposed such a thing. So the Social Democrats choose to spend resources on producing a legislative proposal to solve a problem that simply does not exist. When I meet people in Östergötland and discuss health care, I sometimes get questions about what we in the Social Affairs Committee are doing. Much, of course, revolves around the growing challenges and problems in healthcare that exist and that need to be addressed and resolved. No one has asked me what the Riksdag is doing to prevent Linköping University Hospital from being sold. This is probably due to the fact that no one has proposed this. It's not on the map. It is sad that the government is inventing problems that do not exist instead of dealing with the real problems of health care, as many have already said here today. Someone may no doubt object that a law forbidding people to do something that no one would think of doing well cannot be so dangerous. But the problem with the bill is that in order to solve a problem that does not exist, you risk preventing a development that most people think is good. What is highly specialised medical care today is tomorrow's routine medical care. That is the development, and that is what it has always been like. A new advanced method is introduced within the highly specialised healthcare system and a few years later it is available in ordinary specialist care. If Parliament were to ban what is university health care right now, not in 2007, from being conducted by private actors in the future in some way, it would hinder the dynamic development that is important in Swedish health care. The law council and lots of heavy consultation bodies have been quoted here. For example, the Agency for Health and Care Analysis considers that the proposal risks hampering the necessary structural changes in hospital care. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1462	Mr President, I would like to Staffan Danielsson has not heard any Östgöte expressing concern that the University Hospital will be sold out. I didn't hear that either. On the other hand, I have heard many suggestions, at home in Östergötland and not least in this House, to extend parts of health care to private activities. Several of the previous speakers have come back to the fact that, if it were to go through, the proposal would hamper the development of health care. I will come back to what I said in my speech: there is no such thing in the proposal. The proposal talks about who is someone else and to whom it is not possible to extend the activities. It is also clear that if the county council wants to change its activities in different ways, for example, if it considers that part of university health care has evolved into basic health care, it can be outsourced to other health care providers. But you can also – and this is important in this context – develop and organise university healthcare in such a way that you can, for example, put some of the activities at Motala Hospital, at Vrinnevi Hospital in Norrköping or in primary care. The thing is, you have control of this health care. It may be of a highly specialised type, but it does not need to be performed at the university hospital but can be located elsewhere. However, it has control over the business. You can do research. And you can do development and education. The ta may have let t destroy s. I'll get back to that in my next line.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1467	Mr President, I would like to No, I haven't heard it from any East Göte I've met. But I have heard through Cecilia Widegren here and in other ways what the hospital management in Östergötland thinks about the issue. It was clear. We can of course have a policy that means that there is no confidence in solutions from those responsible for healthcare in the country. Power is being moved up to Stockholm, so that you have to have permission for everything to do. The government should decide what is medical care, and if you want to do something, you should ask the government and so on. It's inhibiting. I can refer to what the chairman of the committee Emma Henriksson and Cecilia Widegren and Per Ramhorn have put forward here. There are constructed and ideologically coloured arguments behind this, as we have heard in the debate here in the lines. The proposal is not needed. Let us discuss the challenges of healthcare and concentrate on it! That is the main task today.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1471	Mr President, I would like to I would like to discuss the challenges of health care. And we do that in a way today. The challenges of health care must be met with, among other things, what is happening at university hospitals. That's why it's incredibly important that we keep them together. If Staffan Danielsson has studied the referrals carefully, he has probably also discovered that the University of Linköping has a different meaning. It supports the proposal. You can read about that. Staffan Danielsson also talks about how terrible it will be if you have to apply for permission in Stockholm for things. His party colleague in the committee usually stands here and talks about everyone applying for permission for various activities in Stockholm. This also applies to centre-controlled municipalities and regions and county councils where the Center Party is involved. They will also apply for a permit in Stockholm to be able to carry out their activities. So you do not really speak the same language, Staffan Danielsson. We must come back to why the bourgeois and the Swedish democrats have such aversion to this proposal that they do not even want to listen to what is in the bill that it is possible to develop their activities within the county councils. I think it is a matter of the extreme desire – as Per Ramhorn specifically said – to have the opportunity to privatise different parts. The parts that will be privatised are what are easy to define and what you can earn a lot of money from. That will not be what is complex, which is difficult and expensive. Then the care will be fragmented. For example, it will be much more difficult at the University Hospital in Linköping to carry out burn care if you lift out what is a little easier to define and what you can earn a lot of money from, such as plastic surgery.
i-dce0b97e1dfe946d-1477	Mr President, I would like to What I criticised was that the government wants to transfer power to the government. The Landstingen can then come up with proposals if you want the development that has taken place since 2007 and that took place before 2007. It should be possible to do this naturally in the future, without centralising decision-making to the government. Finally, I just want to say that I think it is ideologically coloured from the government, as the speeches here – not least from Karin Rågsjö – show. The state is the best health care provider. The landing is worse at that and not to mention private alternatives. They are procured by the county councils that can make demands and control the whole thing. When representatives of the Alliance and Per Ramhorn have quoted the Law Council and heavy consultation bodies, it only falls to the ground. You don't comment on that. You ignore them and get caught up in your ideological basic view and perhaps in a letter from some researchers who are certainly important in Stockholm, but who do not weigh up the weight of the referral bodies and the Law Council.
i-9DwCrVu5KmDdQt1WJ12y9L	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations. What is so important when we make decisions here in Parliament is that we base our decisions on a solid basis with impact descriptions of what we decide on. It's missing here. In fact, it was equally lacking in 1982 when the State took over responsibility for university hospitals. I have gone back to the basis that was then, and it was about faith and opinion. Landstingen wanted power over health care. Ten years earlier, municipal self-determination had been introduced. The authority I was working on at the time – the National Board of Health and Welfare – did not have enough muscle to resist. It has had and has consequences because health care became more and more a priority in university health care. It was to the detriment of clinical research that was then among the world leaders. There's a lot of investigations that have shown us how we've beat up. Some have been repaired during the journey. But I would like to remind you that the ALF funds have been very difficult to trace. What have they actually been used for? Instead, have they been used to fill black holes in the medical budget? Now we are going to ban the sale of university hospitals, and that is a non-question, as several here have pointed out. It hasn't been on the agenda. What is on the agenda and, at this point, it is not possible to re-exercise in connection with the bill, is that there is a strict framework in the Riksdag for how to write follow-up movements. I would like to see a development of Göran Stiernstedt's study on effective healthcare, where he deals with the research side and, above all, that more and more of the healthcare system will be located outside hospitals. This means that education and research must be accompanied. Medical education varies here in the country, but a lot is now out in the health centres. It should also be possible to have training in a private health centre if it meets the requirements of quality and teacher. Of course, resources are also needed. This is not free of charge, but much of the education can be spent on both public and private outpatient care provided that the care has quality and competent teachers. This will also benefit patients. When medicines were tested earlier, this would be done in single-sick patients at university hospitals. Otherwise, there could be no quality of the trials. But these patients were not representative of multisick chronics who would then use the drugs. Now we are going into a time where new treatments – and this is not just about medicines – will be tested out in the reality where patients are, and that is necessary. I have reviewed the facts behind the benefits of medicine and the risks of those who have passed their 85th birthday. There's nothing. In fact, we do not know what the benefits of these drugs are. We know quite a lot about the risks because they are reported to the Medical Products Agency and on other roads. There is therefore a very great need for research here, and this will be met in open health care. Of course, in the future it is also important to test new surgical methods that cannot be tested in outpatient care. We'll see to that, too. Research councils, departments of education and the scientific community have a great responsibility here to point out what is needed and how it can be done. Some of this may well be done in private hospitals. Stockholm's nursing home is now doing very important dementia research and also rehabilitation after neck injuries and other things. The important thing is that there are competent researchers and resources at the clinics involved. There is also a follow-up of the quality of research.
