i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-0	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Sofia Damm has asked me whether it is my view that the statements made in the structured dialogue with Iran are different from those made in connection with bilateral visits and what the difference is in that case. Furthermore, Sofia Damm asks at what level I intend the structured dialogue to take place and whether I will work to ensure that Sweden, during the dialogue, will seek consultation with oppositional Iranian groups or turn to exiles working for human rights who cannot speak to the Iranian regime themselves. The human rights situation in Iran remains very serious, including respect for religious freedom and for converts. The human rights situation is addressed at all our political meetings with Iran, which ministers Damberg, Baylan and Wikström made during their visits to Tehran and which cabinet secretary Söder made during his visit last autumn. I have also raised these issues myself with Minister for Foreign Affairs Javad Zarif during his visit to Stockholm in 2016. As Sofia Damm writes, Sweden and Iran have agreed to initiate a structured political dialogue, including human rights. The purpose of the structured dialogue is to discuss bilateral issues at ministerial or state secretarial level in a comprehensive manner, in addition to the contacts already taking place. The difference compared to bilateral meetings is therefore mainly that these meetings should take place on a regular basis and follow up on a number of key issues in a more structured manner. No matter what format our dialogue takes place, the government's commitment to human rights in Iran remains firm, and the Swedish messages do not change. We have a tradition of being clear about democracy and human rights. This will permeate our dialogue, regardless of the form of the meeting. The work of civil society to draw attention to human rights violations in Iran is important, and the government supports these efforts. We meet regular civil society organisations at different levels and collect their views. The Swedish Embassy in Tehran is also conducting an active dialogue on the ground in Iran. We also continue to be a driving force on these issues within the UN and the EU, including by supporting the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in Iran, Asma Jahangir, whose mandate was created on Swedish initiative. The government will continue to pursue the human rights issue with Iran, both bilaterally and multilaterally.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-7	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Wallström for her reply and for the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is here today. Sweden has begun the year as the country holding the presidency of the UN Security Council. The level of ambition is high and the commitments are therefore numerous. So what prompts my questions is Sweden's relationship with Iran and, more specifically, the so-called structured political dialogue, which the government has now begun with the Iranian regime. The sanctions against Iran have been lifted, and shuttle traffic has taken place between the Swedish government buildings and the Tehran regime. Minister for Industry Mikael Damberg, Minister for Energy and Coordination Ibrahim Baylan, Minister for Public Health and Health Gabriel Wikström and Cabinet Secretary Annika Söder have all had time to visit Iran. It is clear that one might ask what is more specifically causing visits to Iran, especially when exchanges and negotiations between our countries are now crowned with Prime Minister Stefan Löfven going to Tehran to meet President Hassan Rohani, among other things. According to the press release from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, good relations are particularly important now that Sweden has taken its place in the UN Security Council. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister why Iran is particularly important now that we have the seat on the Security Council. It was particularly important for us to get all these countries to vote for us, but what is the strategy now? I would also like to know more about why the feminist government seems to give such a high priority to the relationship with one of the most anti-female regimes in the world. What can we get out of the partnership? Iran is not just any country. It is a partner with clear ambitions of great power. The Iranian interventions in Yemen, Syria, Iraq, Israel and Lebanon show just that. The Iranian regime is also an unpredictable partner. It is a theocratic dictatorship that forces its population to practice strictly religious practices, while at the same time aligning itself with a country like North Korea – a country that oppresses all religious believers and has a cult of persons where the first Kim has been given an exalted, godlike position. Ideologically and theologically, these states have nothing in common, but they still unite. Iran supports the Shia-Muslim forces in Iraq, as well as the Shia-Muslim group in Yemen. But Iran is not limited to a religious relationship. Sunni-Muslim Hamas receives Iran's wholehearted support. Despite sanctions from the outside world, Iran has chosen to send arms repeatedly to the Palestinian Terror Organization. Given that the Iranian regime prioritises war over freedom and the most basic human rights of its own people, I would like the Minister for Foreign Affairs to explain which key issues Sweden now wants to have continuous cooperation on.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-16	Mr President, I would like to It is urgent that the debate on human rights and the position of freedom of religion in Iran should come up. Both Christians and Jews living in Iran often find it difficult. An Iranian Jew tells the Finnish TV channel Yle that Jews are discriminated against in the public administration but also that their identity as Jews and Iranians is just as important to them and that they believe that the situation of Jews in Iran will improve. In large parts of the Middle East, the population of Christians is being emptied, but in Iran the proportion of Christian people is increasing. According to the newspaper Dagen, it has increased by 31 000 people since the early 2000s. Nevertheless, there are severe persecutions, especially of those who have converted, which the Foreign Minister also mentions. Let's not turn a blind eye to that. Assyrians and Armenians have their faith protected by the Law, yet persecutions have occurred. Both Jews and Christians have been fairly entitled to practice their religion in Iran. I thought, in connection with the most urgent issue of religious freedom, of raising the situation of the Bahais. Bahai is a world religion but not so famous in Sweden. It is also the youngest of the world religions. I would like to mention in four points what the person who professes to be bahai is being subjected to. The first is economic persecution. There is currently an economic apartheid directed at Bahais, and the situation has actually deteriorated since President Rohani took over in 2013. Bahaier cannot be employed in the public sector. Bahai work permits are regularly revoked, and Muslims in the private sector are being pressured to dismiss Bahais. The latest example is from November 2016, when 124 bahai-owned stores were closed in the provinces of Mazandaran, Alborz, Hormozgan and Kerman. The second point I was going to make is the blocking of young Bahaier's education. Thousands of young Bahai are systematically denied the right to attend colleges and universities. Comprehensive school pupils are harassed and threatened with exclusion, according to paragraph 65 of the UN Annual Report. In 1987 the Bahai started their own network for higher education: BIHE, Bahá 中 í Institute for Higher Education. The New York Times has called this an act of municipal self-preservation. The third point: U pppvigling to hate and antibahai propaganda is regularly spread in Iranian media, and the number of documented antibahai articles in Iranian media more than tripled in 2016-11,270 compared to 2015, when it was 3,229. The fourth and final point: attacks and violence. A few days ago, on January 9, 2017, Bahaian hanger Ahmad Fanaian, an elderly and respected man, was reported to have been found dead in the province of Semnan, according to local media. He had burns all over his body. On September 26, Farhang was stabbed Amiri, 63 years old, in the province of Yazd. My question to the Foreign Minister is: In this urgent dialogue with the Iranian regime, will the Foreign Minister also continue to monitor the situation of the Bahais?
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-21	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, and thank you, Sofia, for the interpellation! It is very important, and it is important that Iran engages many people here in Sweden and in the Swedish Parliament. Of course, these are important issues when Sweden has started a diplomatic relationship or a trade relationship with Iran. As I said, several ministers have visited Iran, and the Prime Minister is also going there soon. We also know that Swedish companies are moving to Iran or increasing their establishment there. At the same time, we see that many activists and people in the leadership of workers' organisations are imprisoned. Those who work against child labour are imprisoned – there are a number of names that we have repeated many times in this pulpit. There are also scientists from Iran who are in prison. There is gender apartheid in Iran. This should involve us all, not least the ministers who go there and meet the regime. Iran is not just any state. That applies to sex apartheid. For example, women cannot go to a football match in a stadium or other places where there are men. That's a problem. Women's succession rights and witness rights are only half of men's rights. That's the country you're dealing with. I know that the Foreign Minister is very committed to women's rights issues. I know that this is important for the Swedish Government and for Sweden, and therefore I have expectations that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, with the Prime Minister and the delegation to go, will raise the issue of the workers' activists who are in prison for years. Will they be demanded to be released? If you establish a company, you should hire workers, and those who claim the rights of the workers should not be in prison. The same rules that apply to LO, Kommunal and others should also apply to employees in Swedish companies in Iran or in other countries. Therefore, my question is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs will demand, point out or co-sent with the Prime Minister that Iran should immediately release the workers' activists and political prisoners who are in prison simply because they demand human rights. In the question I put to the Foreign Minister just before Christmas, I mentioned a number of women in prison. They are sick, they have children, they do not receive the care they need and they are tortured. There are many lists of such individuals, human rights activists. If Sweden is now the only feminist voice in the UN and the world, we must be serious about this. Everyone should take responsibility, not just the Secretary of State.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-26	Mr President, I would like to This is an extremely important subject. The sanctions against Iran have been lifted. It remains to be seen how Iran is complying with the obligations it has and is fulfilling what it has promised in that agreement. However, once sanctions have been lifted and Iran has had normalised relations with several other countries, or at least there is more dialogue and more import and investment can be made than before, repression continues in the country. Iran, as has been mentioned, is not just any state. It is a country that hangs its citizens from cranes. It is a regime that sends the people's money to Hizbollah, Hamas and Bashar al-Asad-Assad, or at least to Hizbollah and Bashar al-Asad-Assad these days, instead of investing in health care and schools. It is a country that gives its critics electric shocks under its feet and that chain-murders journalists. It's a terrible regime. It is deeply sexist, and there is sexual apartheid, as mentioned by Amineh Kakabaveh just now. The question then is: should dialogue be conducted with such a regime? The answer to that question is certainly reasonable that we must be prepared to engage in dialogue with everyone under different circumstances. However, dialogue must not replace publicly expressed clear criticism. Mr President, I would like to The problem with our current government is that it has an extremely clear criticism of some states but is almost crazy to other regimes. In the case of Iran, the necessary need for clearly articulated criticism – that Sweden is a clear voice and points out the shortcomings and abuses that occur – seems to have been replaced by something called a structured dialogue. But a structured dialogue, Mr President, is a point of order that is decided within the Government Office and within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This means that our diplomats and foreign ministers and other ministers sit behind closed doors and read from their point of view, and the representatives of the Iranian regime can let it all go through one ear and out the other. Then they can reply by saying that all abuses are actually only committed by the dark right in the Iranian establishment and that you need more time to modernise the country and become more pragmatic. A structured dialogue will not make Iran more democratic. That does not mean that we should not have a structured dialogue. As I mentioned, I mean that we can certainly have it, but it must be done in parallel with clearly articulated markings that make the abuses in Iran visible and clearly show that Sweden is on the side of the Iranian democratic opposition. I miss this on the part of the government today. It is very clear to Saudi Arabia, Israel and a number of other countries, but not to Iran. Instead, it almost overemphasizes the need for dialogue, which does not take place with the Iranian population but with the Iranian regime. It is clear that you can sit with an officer from the Basij militia or the Revolutionary Guard and say that we in Sweden think it is important that they do not torture people. But that will not mean that people stop being tortured in Iran. The combination of structured dialogue and clearly articulated criticism is important. Such a dialogue was conducted with Iran throughout the 1990s. It led virtually nowhere. The question is how the government sees this as being clearer in its open criticism of the Iranian regime's abuse.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-34	Mr President, I would like to I believe that Sweden is the country in the world that can at least be accused of not pursuing the issue of women's rights. We are the first feminist government, and we also have a feminist foreign policy. It is also very clear on our agenda, both nationally and in the UN Security Council, that this is an important issue for us. It concerns both women's rights and the rights of children, not least young girls. I think a lot of people are experiencing the line we're running as a provocation. We run it very publicly and have a high tailings when it comes to feminist politics. As far as Iran is concerned, we can say that the nuclear programme has been a form of dialogue in which the UN has been involved. One can see a clear dividing line between the line that Obama has stood for and that which Trump in the public debate has said it stands for. I do not think it goes without saying, although in a great many respects it is a terrible regime, that we should not have any form of dialogue at all. Nevertheless, I believe that a victory has been achieved: that Iran has now promised to limit its nuclear programme. Of course you have to follow it up, so that they really do fulfil their obligations linked to it, but I still think it is a victory for world security. The more we can limit the potential of nuclear weapons, the better it is for our entire world. This is true at all. Sweden has also been a driving force for limiting nuclear weapons. The end goal is that they should not exist at all. However, in a country like this with a terrible regime, it is particularly important to fight nuclear weapons, because they can really be a security threat. As far as human rights are concerned, these issues have in no way been downplayed. It goes without saying that it is not acceptable. The oppression is horrible. It is, of course, about human rights defenders and all opponents who are in trouble. It is about trade unionists and women, who are only vulnerable because of their gender. We see that women's sexual and reproductive rights are severely restricted. We see violence against women from the authorities. But there is also violence in the family without doing anything about it. We can see that girls are included in this too. It's early marriage. An early marriage is in itself an abuse of the child. There are also forced marriages for both young girls and adult women. The whole state apparatus is fundamentally discriminatory. Contraception is one such issue. It is now being severely restricted. In many areas, one can see that human rights and trade union rights are beneath all criticism. It is also about women's rights and children's rights. This is the main focus for Sweden in our foreign policy. It is also the case, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, that in all our contacts with Iran we are raising the issue of human rights. Of course we will continue to do so. But I find it odd that there should be no dialogue with closed doors and that everything should be public meetings. Then you can say: You never know what is said behind closed doors. But Sweden's focus is clear. We want a safer world. But we also want to push forward on human rights and women's rights. I do not think that any country would question Sweden in particular and think that we would accept the oppression of women in Iran. I think it's very far-fetched. But we have to work in many different ways to improve both Iran and the world over.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-41	Mr President, I would like to I'll answer the questions. Why is this important to the Security Council? Why should we have these contacts with Iran? I will say something about our feminist foreign policy. Above all, I will prove that Fredrik Malm is wrong in his assertions that we should not also criticise openly. And I'll tell you how we do it. But the principle is basically about contact or isolation. Which way do we want to go? How are we going to balance these interests, which are about actually getting this core agreement with Iran and about at the same time being able to have a dialogue and also being able to criticise. First of all, human rights are a central part of our foreign policy. That is something we address in all relevant contexts. In the spring, as promised, we will compile public reports on the human rights situation in countries from all regions of the world. Not least through our embassies, we are following developments very closely. We also court the governments of the host countries when necessary – we do so regularly. We organise dialogues and contacts with civil society through the embassies, all those who may not otherwise have a voice. It is a work that is particularly important for countries such as Iran, where the human rights situation is very worrying and therefore important to consider. Of course, we also raise our views in EU cooperation. It is, of course, the most important platform we have – also for our work on human rights in Iran. The EU has recently deepened and broadened its relations with Iran, and we are working actively to ensure that human rights form a central part of the EU's relations with Iran. For the first time in November, talks were held between the EU and Iran specifically on human rights. It will be followed up in a specific human rights dialogue in the future. In November, we also adopted Council conclusions from the EU – it is clear that we are getting stronger when we are 28 Member States – in line with the Swedish positions, which clearly highlighted concerns about the situation of human rights, including the use of the death penalty and a lack of respect for freedom of expression and other fundamental rights. Iran was also urged to ensure equal rights for women and persons belonging to ethnic and religious minorities. On the ground in Iran, the EU, including Sweden of course, is courting the Iranian authorities on individual cases or planned executions. We are constantly involved in the planning and implementation of such courtesies. Why is this needed within the UN? Well, for many years, Sweden, together with the United States, Macedonia and Moldova, has been part of the core group which is presenting an annual resolution in the UN Human Rights Council to extend the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in Iran. Since last summer, it is the Pakistani woman Asma Jahangir who is the special reporter. She is doing an incredibly important job of documenting and paying attention to violations of human rights. We continue to work to support her in her work. We are also participating in the periodic review of the situation of MR in Iran, i.e. Universal Periodic Review. Of course, we call on Iran to work with us on this. Of course, we are working on feminism and a feminist foreign policy to ensure that, in all contexts, particular attention is paid to the situation of women. I can come back to you today about the situation of the Bahais and other human rights activists.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-47	Mr President, I would like to Exports of arms, terrorism and interventions in neighbouring countries are characteristic of Iran. How many times have we seen pictures of injured and dying children in war Syria? How many times have we heard condemnations of the Syrian regime in this very House? According to the press release, Stefan Löfven will talk about developments in the region with a focus on Syria. What will the Prime Minister say to the Syrian dictatorship's main promoter in the region? I assume this is settled with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It would be interesting to find out more about it. In reply to my interpellation, I am told that a structured dialogue, unlike bilateral meetings, will take place on a regular basis and that the structure is about the ability to follow up a number of key issues. I think I have to say that the Secretary of State owes me the answer. What questions, more specifically, are we talking about, which should be able to follow up carefully? The absence of concreteness raises some suspicions that this dialogue is an alibi to use to engage in trade with the regime. But dialogue must lead to much more. Does the Foreign Minister mean that we should ignore Amnesty International's report, which, contrary to the official rhetoric heard around the world, points to negative and worrying developments in Iran? Amnesty states that the human rights situation is gradually deteriorating and that there is no light in sight. Since the so-called reform-friendly President Rohani took office in 2013, it is estimated that at least 2,400 capital punishments have been carried out by the regime. We have heard many of the colleagues in the Riksdag mention more examples of how people are oppressed. We have also heard about the political prisoners in Iran. In our country, as I said, many Iranians have found their sanctuary. They are now accompanying their relatives, who are still being oppressed in Iran, with great sadness. They are punished for being dissidents or having a different faith and for being Christians. Although women have the right to vote and represent the majority of university students, they are subject to widespread discrimination, just as Amineh Kakabaveh was at work. It's about marriage, divorce, custody of children, succession rights, and so on. As I said, women are stoned to death in Iran. In fact, the same month that Mikael Damberg visited Iran, a woman was sentenced to stoning in the country. Mikael Damberg definitely had nothing to do with it. But I say it a little to problematise what is going on with this regime, which is now approaching the world. Intolerance to LGBT people is also extensive. According to the law, persons engaged in homosexual acts are sentenced to death. The Foreign Minister has made it clear that human rights should be included in the dialogue. Sounds good. A structured dialogue with measurable objectives and results could be useful here. But how is it implemented in practice, more concretely?
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-55	Mr President, I would like to That the Foreign Minister says that Sweden brings up the issue of human rights and democracy in dialogue with Iran is extremely good. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also makes very clear here in Parliament the work that is going on with Iran on human rights and democracy. Perhaps I can say that it is extremely beautiful that we have such a democracy that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, with such transparency and openness in the Swedish Parliament, can demonstrate the work that is going on. For this I am extremely grateful. I thought I'd pick up the Bahai one more time. Bahai was founded as a religion in the 19th century, and therefore it is not properly recognised as a religion in Iran. However, it is the largest minority religion in Iran, with many millions of followers. Many of them have also fled, and some of them have ended up here in Sweden. They are also found in South America, North America, Asia and Oceania. The signals that come from here to those who are fighting for democracy, human rights and freedom of religion are extremely important. Knowing that you are not alone in fighting is extremely important, and I hope that the Foreign Minister will continue to stand up for this.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-58	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the reports. I understand that the Foreign Minister is very committed to human rights and women's rights. It is quite clear, and it is very gratifying. The problem with the critical dialogues between, for example, Sweden, the EU and the UN and many countries in the decade that has been, is that it has not led to anything concrete in the states that they trade with, do business with and have these dialogues with. That's the problem. The sanctions against Iran would not have lasted forever, but only against the development of nuclear weapons. Now they have lifted the m, and that, of course, strengthens the regime. It strengthens the regime more than it strengthens human rights. It is important that this dialogue is conducted. Dialogue is good, but it must also lead to something concrete. Like the previous speakers, Iran executed more than 1,000 people just last year. When people fall into misery in our country, for example because of drugs, there is prosperity and a judiciary for this. We take care of the children affected by drugs, but in Iran they are hanged by cranes. That is how it is in a country that we are dealing with, and it is not least about the rights of the Kurds and other minorities, as well as about women's rights. It is therefore very important to keep reminding ourselves of the outcome of the critical dialogue. What is the concrete result of it?
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-64	Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned in my first speech, we can all have a structured dialogue in which we face-to-face behind closed doors in front of Sweden's view that Iran should become a democracy. We can have such a dialogue with the Iranian regime. However, my conclusion is that this will not lead anywhere, but must be combined with a systematic, consistent and clear policy to promote democracy in Iran. It is a question of revealing the abuses that are taking place and of clearly highlighting the abuses that occur in speeches and in different contexts, also in public. The European Union and the West in some sense had a so-called constructive or critical dialogue with Iran in the 1990s. However, what caused Iran to stop executing people abroad was not the so-called critical dialogue, but there were a number of convictions in European countries as a result of the murders carried out by the Iranian regime. Similarly, parts of the 2003-2004 nuclear programme were interrupted as a result of the US's entry into Iraq, which saw what happened to Saddam Hussein and his regime, just as Libya at that time stopped parts of its biochemical possession of weapons. We have now seen how we have got an agreement with Iran and the rest of the world on the nuclear programme, but this is the result of Iran being dragged almost to the negotiating table because there was an imminent threat of war, clear sanctions and those who pushed for tougher sanctions. If we want to change Iran, then we need a much tougher policy than to think that the Swedish Government's representatives can sit down and make some criticism behind closed doors. What I, as a Liberal, call, Mr President, is for the critical dialogue to be combined with a clearly consistent and systematic policy of promoting democracy in Iran, exposing abuses and explicitly taking a stand for the rule of law and democracy in Iran.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-70	Mr President, I would like to One doesn't have to rule out the other. Human rights and the nuclear programme can be pursued, as has been done, as well as other issues in different ways. We have been very clear in the public dialogue with what we think about developments in Iran, and of course we should continue to be so. I do not understand why such a structured dialogue would exclude other things. Iran knows where we stand on these issues. It has been completely clear, so there is no uncertainty about it. Then it is clear that Sweden's importance should not be exaggerated when it comes to completely changing the policy in Iran. We are many countries that have been fighting for many years to change the n, and it is not an easy game. However, it is not at all certain that the solution to the problems is always to have no dialogue at all, i.e. total isolation. We saw what happened to the nuclear programme and, of course, we shall continue with regard to human rights and democracy. It can be said that this is not as much progress so far as in the nuclear programme, but unfortunately there are many setbacks on these issues. I do not really understand what the criticism is about. I would have understood if we had not been clear in public where we stand in terms of human rights, democracy and, not least, women's rights linked to Iran. But we have been very clear, and this is addressed in every contact with the authorities in Iran and every visit at the highest level by the government. We are now very strongly involved in the work of the UN, specifically because we are on the Security Council. The UN has been working on this for a long time, and we are raising the UN's tone with our participation in the Security Council. We raise the issues, for example, in relation to feminism, which means that we are strengthening pressure on Iran, and we shall continue to do so.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-75	Mr President, I would like to I thought I had rather well described how we work nationally on this. We will now present MR reports on each country and country from all the different regions of the world. We are working very seriously on this issue right now. We work through the European Union, where, of course, we combine the policy whereby we have the opportunity to reverse the decision on an agreement with Iran, even on nuclear technology, if we see that they do not live up to what they have promised with a dialogue with public statements with the opportunity to express very clearly what we think. There is also the possibility of imposing sanctions if we think it was necessary. Sweden has pushed for it to be the MR profile of the public statements we make. We make our own statements, of course, when we see that there are human rights abuses. We are working in the Security Council, where we are just supporting the possibility of having a rapporteur who can review and publish the human rights abuses that are taking place in Iran. We are, of course, also pursuing this in Geneva and in the regular reports presented to the Human Rights Council in Geneva. It's not one or the other. I have never said that structured dialogue is the only tool we have. We have to work in all these different channels at the same time. As far as Iran is concerned, we can rather see that the prolonged isolation of the country has actually meant that conservative groups in Iranian society have benefited. They have been able to strengthen their power and also portray the outside world as hostile. The situation of ordinary Iranians has not improved by sanctions and reduced exchanges with the rest of the world. It is equally possible to argue for the effect of trying to isolate or simply resort to sanctions. The government believes that one must be extremely strict in one's view of Iran and the abuses. We believe that we can point out precisely the kind of issues that have been mentioned here, that is, the situation of human rights defenders and those who advocate a religion such as Bahai. We will closely monitor the situation of women in the country, and we can also discuss how we can help. Is it through training, exchange of visitors and dialogue? So far, this is what has proved more effective than isolating the country. There are many examples. The government will continue to be very clear on human rights violations, including executions, discrimination against women and minorities and restrictions on freedom of expression and the press. I don't know what you're advocating. The opposition says one thing and the other. It's supposed to be a dialogue, but you don't think it'll help. I don't know what the alternative is. I agree with Fredrik Malm that a whole toolbox is needed. That's what I've been reporting. Sweden will play a central role in the Security Council, where Iran is an important player and player in the region. We need to be able to talk to them. Sweden must, of course, be able to express opinions to countries that we do not agree with and are very critical of. If structured dialogue is possible, it is another tool in a broad foreign policy toolbox.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-82	Mr President, I would like to I thank everyone who has joined the debate. This is a matter of urgency. Can we promote the development of democracy in Iran? Can we ensure that dialogue does not stop at trade and empty words without leading to something that makes life better for dissidents in Iran? I am glad that many people are so involved in this subject. I would like to dwell on converts that have left in sludge. This is a particularly vulnerable group. Last summer, 16 Christian converts were arrested. They are held in the notorious Evin prison in Tehran, where there is a special section for dissidents. Since the 1979 revolution, Christians have often been held and prosecuted for threats to national security or for espionage. The relatives fear that the Iranian security police will use the time to break down these people so that they will agree to the charges. Some of these prisoners have been held in the past, while others have been imprisoned for the first time. One of the prisoners has their family in Sweden, in Stockholm. It is a family in fear and deep concern about what is now going to happen to their son. Prior to the Prime Minister's visit to Iran, the government writes that Sweden and Iran also have strong ties through the large Iranian diaspora in Sweden. The diaspora continues to suffer, Margot Wallström, under the repression of the regime. I would therefore like to ask a few final questions. In what way does the government listen to the diaspora in Sweden? Are you their channel of dialogue? Is their voice heard? During his visit, will the Prime Minister address Iran's total lack of freedom of religion?
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-88	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I must point out that Swedish exports and views on trade, open societies and contacts are a cornerstone of an economy that can create growth and jobs and secure our welfare. Through trade, we believe in building bridges between people, countries and cultures. It is natural for Sweden to engage in a dialogue with countries with which we deal – even in matters where we disagree. The government believes that the international exchange, including a structured dialogue, is a way of contributing to a positive development in the world. Do not forget that the moderate forces in Iran want the outside world to conduct the dialogue and exercise openness with increased international exchange. This is particularly true of countries such as Sweden and the West. For them, it's important. I usually get my fish warm by, among other things, a trader near where I live. When I go there, I usually get a series of arguments from those who have left Iran because of oppression. It is good that we can listen and express our opinions and discuss the value and importance of having a dialogue and being involved. For those forces that want to open Iran, who want Iran to become a modern country moving towards democracy, this contact is incredibly important. This contact must be complemented by the use of all the other instruments available to exert pressure. The dialogue should be about MR. You can be absolutely sure of that. It should, of course, be about what characterises our policy, not least guaranteeing human rights for women, for minorities and for those defending human rights in Iran. These will be important elements of that dialogue. We'll get back to you. We have nothing to hide.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-92	Mr President, I would like to Amineh Kakabaveh usually keeps me busy, and now she has asked me whether I intend to take the initiative to get Sweden as a member of the UN Security Council to work to encourage Member States to increase compliance with human rights and to increase compliance with the UN Convention on Women and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Amineh Kakabaveh has also asked me whether I intend to take the initiative to ensure that Sweden, in the UN Security Council, pursues the issue of extending the fight against the everyday gross violence against women so that this fight also includes violence in the name of honour, genital mutilation and similar forms of repression. Furthermore, Amineh Kakabaverh has asked me whether I intend to initiate a UN conference to draw attention to and combat illegal and legal violence against women. Mr President, I would like to Respect for human rights is one of the fundamental values of Swedish foreign policy. It is now more important than ever to stand up for human rights and their universality. The Government has last year submitted two letters to the Riksdag with Sweden's overall human rights policy, stressing that there is a coherent Swedish policy for the promotion and protection of human rights in both internal and foreign policy. Thus, defending international law, including human rights – including women's and children's human rights – will be fundamental for Sweden as a Security Council member. It is important to emphasise that the Security Council is a negotiating body. Dialogue will be a key tool for Sweden as a member of the Council: we will have dialogue with the other members of the Council as well as with countries on the Council's agenda. With regard to human rights, we will also make demands on the reporting and action of the UN system in the field. The Swedish government conducts a feminist foreign policy. This will characterise Sweden's actions in the Security Council. We will pursue these issues in a methodical and integrated manner, including through the informal Security Council working group on women, peace and security, where we will share the presidency role with the United Kingdom and Uruguay. Women's active influence in peace processes is a strategic issue for international peace and security and an issue on which Sweden will focus in particular. At the same time, the Security Council is not the only arena for work on gender equality issues, and Sweden is an active contributor to a number of UN agencies working on these issues. Our extensive support and commitment to UN Women is one such example. The UN system also includes a series of well-established review processes and follow-up mechanisms aimed at ensuring compliance by States with conventions and other legal commitments. These bodies are Sweden's main forum to ensure compliance with the Women's and Children's Conventions. The full enjoyment of human rights and freedom from physical, mental and sexual violence by women and girls are two of the six main objectives of feminist foreign policy, and human rights and equality are fundamental prerequisites for the implementation of Agenda 2030. I can therefore guarantee that the questions raised by the interpeller are high on the government's political agenda and are also issues with which I myself am particularly committed. Sweden is active in relevant international fora in terms of paying attention to and countering violations of human rights, not least women's rights through the broadening, deepening and systematic nature of feminist foreign policy in the field. We do this in the UN Human Rights Council and in relevant UN committees. We are doing it as a member of the European Union just as we are doing it in the Council of Europe and in the OSSE. The Security Council has also increasingly come to accept that conflict-related sexual violence can pose a threat to international peace and security. At the same time, we know that the widespread sexual and gender-based violence does not stop when conflicts end. Sexual and gender-based violence can also contribute to the flare-up of conflict. Sweden, as a UN member, including in the Security Council, will work to highlight this problem and to ensure that adequate measures are taken to curb the abuse and counter impunity. Mr President, I would like to In October 2016, on my initiative, we organised a conference on women's enjoyment of human rights and against discriminatory legislation with high-level representatives from, among others, the World Bank and the International Criminal Court. All parties are now working on the conclusions and lessons learned and the enhanced cooperation that that conference made possible. In order to consider a new conference, we need to ensure that it has added value and that we have concrete objectives that can be met. All in all, Sweden will carry out a methodical, committed and intensive work on women's and children's rights, as well as a member of the UN Security Council as well as in all other relevant forums and contexts.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-103	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Minister of Foreign Affairs. These are important issues, and I know that there is a strong commitment on the part of the Foreign Minister. That is why it is important for everyone to get involved in this. Half the world's population is actually women. It is we who have the least of the resources, and it is we who, together with children, are the victims of war and misery. I know this is a strong commitment to the Foreign Minister. These are major issues and also major problems. It is about human rights, especially women's human rights, just as the Minister for Foreign Affairs did. Unfortunately, these issues are not always of interest to the world's international, regional or national powers. What interests such forces is primarily the power of one's own state — to preserve and strengthen it. Human rights issues have not had the status they should have in world politics. The human rights issues that end up at the bottom of the list are issues of women's and children's human rights. They are the most common victims of human rights crimes, and they are the most defenceless victims. These are crimes that can be carried out quickly, dramatically and on a large scale, such as in the Middle East right now and in parts of Africa. But for hundreds of millions of women and children, they are part of everyday life, and they have done so throughout history. Repression has varied according to the democratic development of society and the level of development. I note that the Foreign Minister has taken note of the fact that women are particularly vulnerable to war. That is true, and I am pleased that the Foreign Minister is taking note of the fact that the oppression of women is in itself a threat to world peace. This is something that is rarely discussed in the political debate. However, there are a few points I would like to make. The Minister for Foreign Affairs talks about the existence of well-established review processes and follow-up mechanisms aimed at ensuring compliance with conventions and other legal measures. What does this mean in concrete terms? Where in the world do we see the effects of working with such legal processes and mechanisms? In view of what is happening in the world right now, that work does not seem very successful, to say the least – unfortunately. We see Mr Erdo中an, who, instead of going to Europe, is approaching Iran, wants to reintroduce a 12-year limit for child marriage, suspend peace negotiations and intensify the war against his own people and the Kurds. Brazil's women, democratically elected president is cut off from his post, and the new, corrupt president appoints a government made up of men only. And in the United States, a first-class male pig has become the president of the world's largest power. In such a situation, I think it is a little too weak and formalistic to be content with referring to established processes and mechanisms. That is why I think it is important to take note of the UN. It is important that Sweden takes the initiative for a conference precisely in view of developments and what is happening. The countries that are members of the United Nations should not stand there on the same terms.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-110	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Wallström, for your answer. Thanks also to the interpellant! I do not think many parliaments are asking questions of this kind. Then I am thinking of the feminist foreign policy that we have. We will, of course, address questions and also challenges to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. But it is clear that at the same time we know that it is a world of many political leaders who definitely do not have a feminist foreign policy, so it is indeed an enormous challenge. You only have to look at Putin, Trump and Erdo中an to feel that you need to work hard with the feminist struggle and that it is important that Sweden is included in the Security Council in order to be able to be some kind of counterweight and lift up these issues. There are many things that the Foreign Minister describes in his answer that you can ask further questions about. One such question, which I am going to ask now, is that the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that dialogue is one of the key tools for Sweden to put forward this kind of question both as a Council member and in dialogue with individual countries. I'd like some exemp electricity. I know that this type of dialogue has already taken place in the initial weeks of the year, which seems to have made some progress, but I would like to have more examples of what will be done and what could be done. The Foreign Minister describes the existence of informal working groups for women and peace and security. We know that, too. At the same time, we know that foreign policy is not only foreign policy but also internal policy and vice versa. It would be good to know if the Minister for Foreign Affairs is making some demands back on women's organisations in Sweden that are about how we could intensify and support the fight for feminist and anti-violence issues. It is also an issue on which it would be interesting to hear comments. The Minister for Foreign Affairs talks about widening, deepening and systemicism in this area. How can it look like? It can be such an issue that we can work with in different forums. I myself sit in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which is mentioned here. How could we work even more strategically on these issues? Finally, a question which is certainly as difficult as the others. We know that sexual violence is a threat to peace and security, and we know that there is a lot of sexual violence in wars and conflicts, but also afterwards. We also know that this can lead to more conflicts. How could more work be done on adequate measures, as mentioned in the answer to the question? There are some supplementary questions other than those asked by Amineh Kakabaveh.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-118	Mr President, I would like to In fact, it is quite fundamental that women's rights are human rights. If one could only agree on that, many problems would be solved. But we haven't gotten there yet. There are gaps in gender equality in all countries around the world – more or less – and there is pure female oppression in many places and in many areas. Men also have a lot to gain from better equality. The macho culture that exists is devastating not only for women and children but also for men themselves. It is a culture of violence that they themselves succumb to. All of humanity therefore has a great deal to gain from equality and feminism and that we are fighting the macho culture and patriarchal structures. I think it is important to set a good example in international politics. We cannot say that others should do anything if we do not act ourselves. There we have really moved forward the positions in Sweden with a feminist policy in all areas. We have what is called gender mainstreaming, where gender equality is addressed in all areas, so that it is seen that there is no deterioration for women and gender equality in general when implementing policies in different areas. Sometimes you haven't even thought about the question. I think that is precisely the biggest problem. It is a great dilemma to make women invisible and equal opportunities issues. Few people say that they think it is good that women are oppressed and that women do not have the same rights as men. Instead, it makes women invisible so that they are not part of decision-making functions and cannot serve as role models for other women and, moreover, cannot speak for women. Many of the problems that are women's are also invisible. Then it suddenly becomes something private, and then it is a matter for the family when it comes to women's rights. Mrs Wallström has made it very clear that women's human rights also include sexual and reproductive rights. These are issues that are often said to be family issues, private issues or issues that are too sensitive to debate in public. It often happens when it comes not least to sexuality. That is why it has actually been groundbreaking when the Foreign Minister has highlighted, for example, the issue of sexual violence in conflicts. In the past, it has in many ways been invisible or even seen as something normal. But it can never be normal to go after women and children that way. So the important thing here is to remove the invisibility of this and, on the contrary, to make it visible. The truth is not so beautiful. It looks very bad. One can also see in Swedish politics that it was not very many years ago that people saw rape in marriage as okay, for example, because it was something private within the family. But we have come a long way. In this way, we are also reacting more. I also think that we need to work to get the rest of the world to react, because women's oppression has normalized to the point of not even reacting to it. I am absolutely convinced that progress can be made in Sweden and in all other countries. It is really the natural thing to move forward towards a modern society. Then it is a question of making visible the oppression that exists. Of course, it can lead to conflict. The same goes for LGBTQ rights, of course. Looking back, one does not regret having fought for it, as it leads to results in the end.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-126	Mr President, I would like to How am I supposed to answer all these wise questions and points of view? I understood Amineh Kakabaveh's question as saying that she wondered what we could do in the Security Council and whether the Security Council should not do much more also in terms of women's and children's rights and in terms of compliance with it. Then I have tried to answer that perhaps it is not primarily the Security Council directly that should ensure compliance with, for example, the Convention on the Rights of the Child or the Convention on the Rights of Women. There are already international monitoring mechanisms for this and the UN Committee on the Convention on Women's Rights, which are responsible for examining the compliance of states with their obligations. Similarly, there is a UN Committee on the Rights of the Child. It is their job to examine internationally whether the states really live up to what they have promised and committed themselves to do. This is not primarily the task of the Security Council, nor can we make it the task of the Security Council. That is not really the role that the Security Council should play. How do we work in the Security Council on these issues? Well, we say that Sweden is working on a bottom sheet – I don't know why we have this as a fashion word, but I think it comes from the military world – of our Swedish values, or universal values, which are about human rights, which is about gender equality and which is about humanism as a driving force. This is what we start from every time. When we look at different country situations, as the Security Council does, we ask ourselves first of all: where are the women? Are they represented? Are they part of the UN operation? Do they exist as mediators or negotiators? Are they at all represented around the table where this situation is being discussed? So we always make sure that it is our instinct, and our first instinct is to make sure that we work for equality and for women's rights. It also includes children's rights. We are now the chairman of the working group that follows up on this, Children and Armed Conflict, i.e. children in armed conflicts. How are they doing? How are we going to get rid of the children as soldiers and combatants in the wars and conflicts of the world? We really do have it on the agenda on a daily basis, not primarily to follow up these specific conventions, but in the context of peace and security. I think that's right and good. We also work with the focus to always ensure that the conventions concerning sexual violence in war and conflict are a very important element. Otherwise, there will be no peace. Other actors are UN Special Rapporteurs, dealing with, for example, violence against women. We also have the UN High Commissioner, who reviews human rights. They are invaluable in promoting women's rights. I have nothing against a conference. We've already had such a conference, last year. I'd be happy to arrange a conference again. The important thing is that we decide what we should focus on it so that it can really be something that we measure the results of. We have an action plan for feminist foreign policy. We have drafted a letter on human rights and their follow-up. We also have an ambassador for human rights in Sweden. And we regularly meet civil society organisations, who help ask questions about how we do things and how we follow them up in different ways. I believe that we need to work on the whole range of tools and methods to ensure that we do not forget this issue and that we implement everything that we have promised to do.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-136	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I thank other sisters here who highlight these issues. In addition to being Members of Parliament, we are also involved in various non-profit or political women's organisations that have written about this. Sweden is the only voice in the UN with a feminist foreign policy, and we give the command in the Security Council. We have the opportunity to examine those countries which are members of the United Nations and which, in their legislation, violate international conventions and all that we are discussing here in the pulpit. We have the opportunity to examine those countries that violate all the human rights that we have mentioned: Iran, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Turkey. Where are these countries and the United States and countries in Latin America heading? I'm not saying we're the best country. We cannot beat our chests, and I am also thinking of the situation of immigrant women and the oppression of honour. Nobody says we're perfect. But I am talking about those countries which, in their legislation, violate human rights. Why should they be on the same terms as those countries that are actually actively working for human rights, not only in their own legislation but also in the world? There should be some kind of warning and some way of measuring how to implement human rights. Why should all countries be part of the UN Security Council and the UN itself under the same conditions in terms of human rights, women's rights and so on? What we mean is that Sweden could have such a conversation with the new Secretary-General – that we are a feminist country with a feminist foreign policy and that it is unacceptable to sit there with such countries. Moreover, these countries are actually actively assigned to the UN; they become a voice for the human rights issues, such as Saudi Arabia. It is a blow to all people who are fighting for peace and to all women who want to be entitled to their own lives and bodies. It is a blow to all the people who are in prison and to the children who shoplifted and had parts of the body cut off, and so on. These countries should not receive as much attention and a vote on the same terms as others. To give a warning would at least be a step in which we say: in concrete terms we have this. We want a committee to examine those countries where it is legal to oppress women, where it is legal for children to be married away and where it is legal for people to be stoned to death for love relations. There is nothing more concrete than these issues. According to the UN's own review – Kofi Annan said this in 2005 – over 5,000 children are murdered in the name of honour in many states that are members of the UN. I therefore believe that this is concrete and important and that it is necessary for a feminist foreign policy to address this issue. Now we have the unique opportunity to do so.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-143	Mr President, I would like to I will not ask any further questions, because I understand that the Foreign Minister received a great many questions from us in the first speeches. I am particularly pleased with what was mentioned in the reply that we are going to work on these issues methodically, dedicatedly and intensively. It is extremely good to hold on to an issue and not to give up even if the resistance is very strong. When you say that you have a feminist government and a feminist foreign policy, it is really strong expressions, which are challenging, and it is good that you hold on to it. Of course, being the first government to have a feminist foreign policy and face the kind of leaders in the world is not an easy task. When you have difficult tasks, it is always good to feel that you have a hard pressure in your back so that you are both pushed forward and can lean back a little bit occasionally and push. There we are, who are pushing these issues, so the Minister for Foreign Affairs can feel very safe in that. In fact, I believe that Mr President is also there. He is out in the world and highlights the universal values we hold for: a t human rights also means women's rights and children's rights. It's important to say it. Although these are universal values, not everyone stands up for them, but when you look at human rights, you can often think that the m is a man – that is, it is a question of men's rights. It is therefore extremely important also to ask the questions, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says. It may also be the question of how women flee when it comes to human rights. It is also a question we can ask ourselves in these times.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-147	Mr President, I would like to I think a lot is about the focus on gender equality and women's rights – is it something that comes at the bottom of the agenda and a little on the periphery, or is it a central and important issue? I believe that there is much to be gained by combining it with human rights, just as the Minister for Foreign Affairs does. Women's rights are human rights. Human rights are a very central issue, and so also women's rights become very important in this context. Women can be subjected to the same oppression as men when it comes to, for example, restricting freedom of expression, but then it can be further oppression that is about the woman not being able to control her own body and life. I think you can sum up the question quite well with the fact that you have come very far as long as you let girls and women control their own body and life. Of course, that applies to all boys and men as well. Then you have come very long, and then you cover much of the questions Amineh Kakabaveh addresses in his interpellation. These include, for example, genital mutilation and violence in the name of honour. If we can just get to the point where girls are counted as much as boys and have control over their future, then we have come very far. Of course, you must never settle down. We must not do so either internationally or in Sweden. We have challenges we have not been able to overcome. We can also see a backlash where forces that want to go back in development gain ground. It is forces that actually want to impair women's rights, and it can even be about the life or death of women. It is therefore a double challenge to continue the long, long struggle forward but also to ensure that we do not back up the band. It feels very good that we now have a seat on the Security Council. I am convinced that we can do a great deal of good.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-152	Mr President, I would like to I think I'd like to start where Hillevi Larsson left off. It is opportune – it is the right time – now to emphasise once again where we stand in Sweden on these issues. What policy do we advocate, and what policy do we have ourselves? We shall also highlight in the European context how we view these issues. We need to send that signal, not least to a country in which a new President has been elected, which is about to take office and which has made directly anti-female statements. It is important that we highlight our views on these issues very clearly. I can assure Amineh Kakabaveh that we, as the only voice in the Security Council for a feminist foreign policy, have been so clear that they are now trying to prevent me – I am there and meet other foreign ministers they usually start by telling us what they are doing in terms of gender equality or women's rights. It's really made an impression, I can say. There is a huge interest, and it is no coincidence that Canada has asked us to tell you how we make the annual action plan for a feminist foreign policy. I think we have served as inspiration for many other countries. We use this in the Security Council just as I said, that is to say, in all situations we have this as one of the points we always control: can we say that it is also a guarantor of women's and girls' rights? What about children in a certain situation? What else can we do? Can we make statements even clearer? Can you use naming and shaming? It actually proposed Amineh as well; it is about highlighting those countries that have not been able to meet their commitments. In the context of the Security Council, however, it is important to address this in each country's situation and also to have themes – such as children in armed conflict or sexual violence – and to ensure that we follow up and implement resolutions. There are by now eight resolutions, if I have counted correctly. So here are the tools, and now we have to use them to the full. We have definitely talked to the new Secretary-General about this. Guterres has demonstrated, among other things, that he is serious by appointing half the women on his own team, and he has also ensured that a plan is put into effect for appointments within the UN system. He believes that we need to be clear about having women as UN employees as much as we have men. So we have definitely made that clear. In relation to the General Assembly, this will be an important point. The objectives we have set for a feminist foreign policy are largely about the humanitarian situation of women and girls and about combating sexual and gender-based violence in conflict and post-conflict situations. At the same time, we continue to focus the searchlight on issues relating to sexual and reproductive health. We shall also combat child marriages and other phenomena of this kind to show that this is translated into practical action and into our own policies, both at home and abroad.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-159	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Hillevi Larsson and Carina Ohlsson for this important debate. We will come back to it and employ everyone in this House. It's necessary. It is a question of women, more than half of the world's population, and it is therefore particularly important to return to the issue, as I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs also thinks. It is very important to have goals set. In terms of war and conflict, women's participation in peace processes is important and good. However, there are many countries where there is no war, but where you are fighting against your own population, or at least half of it, namely against women. Laws are passed against women. In most countries where sharia applies, women are half as valuable as men when it comes to inheritance rights, the right to custody or witness rights – not to mention the culture of chastity, executions and stonings. I believe that there is every reason for the new Secretary-General to set up a committee to take stock of the existence of national laws that violate human rights. A serious warning should then be addressed to States that allow serious crimes. In the absence of reforms, the States concerned shall be subject to sanctions such as the suspension of their voting rights in the General Assembly. I find it absurd and unacceptable that those Member States which, in their legislation, allow serious violations of human rights, which are on the agenda in our country, should be allowed to participate in the work and governance of the international community under the same conditions as the states that comply with the principles. It is therefore important that we take this initiative.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-163	Mr President, I would like to I thank Amineh Kakabaveh, Carina Ohlsson and Hillevi Larsson for this debate. True, there is still a great deal to be done. The world is far from being a perfect place in terms of respect for human rights and women's rights and opportunities – their full potential. It will not be easy in the future either. It will require struggle and hard political work. It will take everything from demonstrations to patience-provoking legislative work to ensure that women can enjoy the same opportunities, rights and obligations as men. There's still a long way to go. That is why we are going to use all the instruments that we have at our disposal, both in the UN system and nationally. I think it is important that we make these issues visible, as Amineh Kakabaverh has pointed out several times. It is important that we show that there can be no sustainable peace anywhere unless women are involved – if half of the population is excluded, and in some countries more than half the population. In addition, the principle must be: and nothing about them without them. We must ensure that women have one voice and that women have full participation in all the different contexts. We will continue to work towards this in the UN context, and we will continue to work on feminist foreign policy here. It is good that, after all, there is a great political consensus in Sweden and that we can continue our debates and our work.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-168	Mr President, I would like to Alexandra Anstrell has asked me if I and the government intend to support the Swedish National Agency for Education's proposal to narrow down the nature conservation programme and how I intend to act to deal with the consequences of the Swedish National Agency for Education's decisions. Let me first give a brief background to the work that has preceded the presentation of proposals on the nature conservation programme recently submitted by the Swedish National Agency for Education to the Government. In order to safeguard national skills supply, reduce youth unemployment and facilitate the transition from school to work, the former government commissioned a special investigator to investigate, among other things, the dimension of upper secondary vocational education and training. The investigator would, among other things, make proposals aimed at avoiding skills shortages and reducing the risk of over-training in professions with weak labour market demand. The investigator was also asked to analyse whether there is reason to make minor adjustments to the national range of orientations and national programmes. This concerns Directive 2014:50. The government decided in an additional directive to the investigation – directive 2015:15 – that the investigator would propose the adjustments to the national range of specialisations in upper secondary vocational education and training that are deemed to be most urgent.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-173	The study considered that the programme's orientations were unclear, that there were problems as to which courses may be offered in the programme deepening and that there was a risk of financial overcompensation for certain training courses. The Government has therefore commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to propose, on the basis of the investigation's proposals for new specialisations within the Natural Resources Programme, how many high school credits the new specialisations should include and the degree goals of the programme. The assignment was presented in April 2016. In its report, the National Agency for Education announced that the Agency would come back with an analysis of the needs of the labour market in the natural tourism sector. The report has recently been submitted to the Government Office and will be prepared in the usual order. It is clear from the report of the Vocational Programme Investigation that a starting point for the changes that may be made must be to ensure that all orientations are given the professional character to which the degree objectives relate. Another point of departure should be that the principals providing certain agricultural trainings should not be overcompensated for their costs. The natural tourism sector is constantly evolving. Ecotourism, for example, is an important and growing industry. It is important that the labour market needs in this area can be met in the future. I can inform you that any changes in the nature conservation programme will not be made until the referral of the final report of the Gymnasie inquiry – SOU 2016:77 – is completed. Changes in the orientations of upper secondary school that may need to be made should be made in a comprehensive manner.
i-3SbgkJ3rw2aDgcXRNKMUhx	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anna Ekström, for your answer! Natural tourism offers opportunities for many to take part of Sweden and our fantastic outdoor life. Sustainable tourism makes a difference and contributes to positive social development, to job creation and to the development of local residents and the place in which they live. This requires reflection so that nature is not harmed. The planning of outdoor activities requires knowledge and experience. It takes training. Mr President, I would like to The tourism industry today has a turnover of EUR 284 billion. It generates an export value of 106 billion and delivers 173 000 jobs every year throughout the country. Traveling grows fastest to the big cities, but it also has great potential for destinations around the country. The Alliance has invested in sustainable destination development, where Åre and the Stockholm archipelago, for example, were involved. I grew up in Åre municipality and have been able to follow the development from a small village to a large World Cup district. There is a lot of hard work to do. The importance of the tourism industry is really visible here. The aim of the tourism industry is to double tourism turnover by 2020. Companies express a strong desire for growth. The industry is employment-intensive and offers a high level of work for young people and people with foreign backgrounds. This too can be seen in Åre; the figures for integration in 2015 show that 62 per cent of the new arrivals in that year were employed. The cut is far above the county and the kingdom. Many others look at how they do it. For example, a fishing project has been run, where the new arrivals have been taught to fish and take care of our nature. But fishing suggests that the Swedish National Agency for Education should be discontinued from the nature conservation education. Mr President, I would like to Sustainability issues are important for the tourism industry. This may include, for example, organic food, environmentally adapted transport and restaurants, hotels and campsites with a clear environmental profile. Other important sustainability aspects concern regional development in agriculture, forestry, hunting, fishing, housing and so on. The Stockholm archipelago, with its 30 000 islands, is not only Sweden's largest archipelago but also one of the largest in the world. I think few big cities have such an exotic nature so close to the corner. Sustainable tourism is also extremely relevant here to strengthen the unique maritime natural and cultural environment, which is a valuable resource for entrepreneurship here in our archipelago environment. That also requires good education. At the same time, proposals are being made by the National Agency for Education, which marks the end of upper secondary education to nature tourism professions. No, Minister Ekström, our High School Minister, this is not the way to go. Today, the Natural Resources Programme is an important education that leads to work, self-employment and further studies. The Swedish National Agency for Education's proposal means that opportunities are drastically reduced. It is therefore proposed that hunting, game conservation, fishing, water management, recreation and experiences should be discontinued from the graduation goals. One argument for changing is that more of the natural tourism guidelines are under the S kog programme, which is an expensive programme, because it requires expensive forest machinery. Would it not be better, Madam Minister, to change the remuneration rules rather than strangle well-functioning education where pupils also get a job after completing their education?
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-186	Mr President, I would like to One of the reasons why they began to look at the nature conservation programmes was that there was a difference within the animal programme. Those who had small animals, like rabbits and guinea pigs, and those who had whole farms with horses and cows had the same school money, and there was a big difference in the cost picture. It is, of course, reasonable to review this. The National Board of Education made a lot of suggestions about what to do. Many of them would put away the bones for many of the natural resources that already exist in Sweden. These include hunting and nature tourism. But this also applies to schools that want to offer full natural qualifications, such as the marin school here in Stockholm County, which could no longer do so. It created great uncertainty. Besides, it was very short notice. It created uncertainty for schools and students, and many nature schools saw a declining number of student applications for their programs. I think we all agree that the professional programmes need to be lifted, and that also applies to the nature conservation programmes. They need to be more attractive. Now, together with the Swedish National Agency for Education, the government has managed to create a great deal of uncertainty about the future of the programme, and you can't say that helps to make the programme more attractive. As far as jurisdiction is concerned, the National Agency for Education has, thankfully, withdrawn its proposal. However, as far as natural tourism is concerned, uncertainty remains. My question to the Government is whether the Government is satisfied with the management of the nature conservation programme.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-191	Mr President, I would like to I cannot help but ask for the floor on such an important issue. Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell, for the interpellation, and thank you, Anna Ekström, for the answer! I think it is of great importance that this issue be debated. In view of the concerns that are growing in the country, not only at the nature-based schools that can now be affected by a possible change, but also at municipalities and the students who are facing future elections, what to prioritise and so on, it may be of the utmost importance that there is a clear decision on how to do it. I recognize the currents of concern from when Jan Björklund and the Alliance pushed through Gy 2011, not entirely thought through. Now we landed in it, and they've worked on it. Of course, there will then be concern at the nature schools involved – especially ecotourism, hunting, fishing, guiding and so on – and at the secondary schools that have had complementary training or where different parts have been studied. The Swedish National Agency for Education has proposed a new direction, and it is clear that it can hit nature tourism. It has often been suggested that this is some form of fake education that does not provide work, but, on the basis of the findings that moderate debaters have highlighted, nature tourism is a sector that is growing very much. As a political representative, I have worked in the National Forest Programme Programme Council, which highlights nature tourism, hunting, fishing and the tourism industry as a very large and growing industry linked to the forest. After all, most of them highlight the machine driver training, the heavy education in the field of nature-use upper secondary school, as very important to invest in. But in order for students to choose to apply for education even in hunting, fishing and tourism, it is of great importance that these orientations can be found in those schools, for many of the students may go on and become entrepreneurs in the forest sector. It is a sector that depends to some extent on the seasons. An entrepreneur active in ecotourism can during the spring be involved in forest planting, logging and clearing, during the summer with fishing tourism and during the autumn with hunting guidance. For everyone involved, it is of great importance that it is clarified what will happen to these training courses. I have strong confidence that the government and the Government are making the necessary balances and looking to the future of all these sectors, because they are sectors with a strong spirit of the future.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-197	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by addressing the Government's response, which I think contains a lot of sensible ideas. Then, of course, I mean that we should have upper secondary education leading to work, that you should be able to both apply and get a job and be able to start a business when you graduate and that the education should be reviewed. Society is changing, and education therefore needs to change. We're standing here for a reason, and that's that we're wondering what's gonna happen to this. And what about what Isak From mentioned about Sweden outside Stockholm and nature conservation courses located in places where there is nature, forest, land, hunting etc.? I would like to take an example from another area, the University of Applied Sciences. There have been training courses where you have been required to get directly to work when you complete an education, and that is good for tax funds and so on. But sometimes that line of thought gets a little short, because it could also lead to amazing trainings where students could have an orbit around the world. They did service in another country and received a broad education with a mindset that was useful and that generated a lot for Sweden. Having said that as an example in this debate, I would like to hear how the Government sees this so that you get all the angles, don't miss anything along the way, get a good education and don't do any blunders in the future – if we are going to have nature conservation courses that contain this with the tourism industry, which is the industry in Sweden that is actually growing at the moment. I would like to have a little closer answer to that.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-202	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for all the questions. The heart of a high school minister is pleased that there is such a great interest in the high schools of nature use and the important education given there. As my predecessor here in the speaker's chair, Mrs Wallström, I say that there were a great many questions. I'll try to answer them as best I can. I guess I'll have to come back in the next round if I miss someone. I agree with the questioners' clear position that the nature conservation programme is an important programme that really deserves its place in the Swedish upper secondary school. Let me also state that the tourism industry is an important industry. This industry has meant a lot to Swedish development, and it will hopefully mean even more in the future – especially given the amazing values that Sweden has to offer both domestic and foreign visitors. Ecotourism is, of course, an important sector of the future, based on many different perspectives. We have an upper secondary school, and in this upper secondary school the nature conservation programs have their obvious place. However, this secondary school is based on a reform that took place a number of years ago. It is a high school education with a number of clearly described programmes and a structure that is carefully defined. This structure includes a number of curricula. These curricula and subject plans are important and it is important that there is security and security in relation to them. Several of the authors have mentioned how important it is that students and school leaders can feel certain that the programmes have a permanence. At the same time, our professional programmes must respond to the needs of the labour market. Here in the discussion, the needs associated with having a strong tourism industry with emphasis on ecotourism are really highlighted. We easily have a contradiction between the need for firmness and stability and the need to be able to respond quickly and agilely to the needs that arise in society. As I see it, there is only one way to deal with this apparent contradiction, and that is that the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Government take it very seriously to take in a rich basis for decision. We must not be afraid to make changes when needed on the basis of reality's demands, but we must not make these changes so hasty and uneasy that we can quickly change back. This rapid change, which is taking place with great urgency and lack of thought, was something we unfortunately had a great deal of experience in the past term of office. My starting point, of course, is that we will carefully take note of the decision basis that the Swedish National Agency for Education has developed and also listen carefully to all the opinions and the evidence that is now flowing in from other parts of society. We should also be pleased with the investigation we have as a basis for this. It is an investigation carried out, in parenthesis, by a former State Secretary of the Alliance Government responsible for the entire system of today's secondary school. My answer may sound a little bureaucratic and boring, but in reality it is important that decisions are made with thought, knowledge and a good basis and with a comprehensive collection of information from the whole of society.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-213	Mr President, I would like to I thank Anna Ekström for the answers, but the future still feels uncertain. We Moderates and the Alliance have asked several times questions about the future of nature conservation programmes, but we do not get any answers. The threat remains. In the near future, we can have on the table a proposal and decision from the government that means that training in hunting and game conservation at the country's high schools of nature will disappear, which may force several schools of nature to close down. We need to produce more and more food in our country, and we need to do so in a sustainable way in order to cope with food security in the future. We need to produce new crops, manage climate challenges and show why local production is so good. We need to take care of our animals in the best way and ensure that the forest not only produces important raw materials for Swedish industry and design but also offers recreation and experiences for the growing tourism. We want to be able to give genuine food experiences to residents and visitors. It is also about creating jobs and growth across the country. Mr President, I would like to This requires competence and good education, and I believe that it requires a different angle from that of ordinary tourism education. It is in itself many years ago that I completed my training in tourism and hotels, but I already saw then and can also look at the objectives that exist today that we need a focus on nature tourism. The Swedish National Agency for Education was commissioned by the government to investigate the country's vocational training. In the investigation, the Swedish National Agency for Education concluded that the degree goals for the high school of nature conservation will be changed in a way that makes it impossible to continue to offer specialisations related to nature tourism at the high school of nature conservation. The proposal that is on the table, and which we do not know whether or not the government is behind, means that valuable skills in nature tourism are completely removed from the country's agricultural education. It's going to be a hard blow to the countryside. Thus, no focus on nature tourism is proposed in the Swedish National Agency for Education's November report. If you remove the degree goals that make it possible to focus on nature tourism in the Forest programme, it is reasonable that you replace it with something of your own. However, the National Agency for Education has chosen not to do this, which is a severe blow to nature tourism. Mr President, I would like to For me who want a living countryside, it is incomprehensible that the Swedish National Agency for Education seems to be working so hard to inhibit nature tourism. It is even more incomprehensible that the Social Democrats in the government seem to be behind this. I therefore hope that this debate will be part of the rich basis requested by the High School Minister. Natural tourism is important. Is it not interesting for the government despite the fact that the tourism industry is increasing almost most of all Swedish industries? My final question is: could it be that it is the Council of State and the Government's view that these forms of work are not important and that is why these training courses are not needed?
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-223	Mr President, I would like to Alexandra Anstrell has meritably argued in favour of the need for a nature tourism policy in nature use. I was a little happy when I heard the Government talk about the need for a good basis, that you should listen in and that a good anchoring is needed when making changes in the upper secondary school programme. Unfortunately, the management of the nature conservation programme has not until now been characterised by this. In spring 2016 the Swedish National Agency for Education came with a proposal that they had planned to enter into force already that autumn. This proposal would have had an impact on the possibility of entering certain authorisations for the nature conservation programme and removing the carpet for several schools in Sweden. We are all concerned about high quality in upper secondary school. If high quality is to be maintained in a programme such as natural management, which requires peripheral resources and not just teachers and classrooms, long-term planning and planning are needed. All trips back and forth, not least from the Swedish National Agency for Education, but also from the government, have created great uncertainty. How should schools dare to plan long-term for their education? How do teachers working in these schools act? Do they dare to remain, or is the uncertainty so great that they actually, in the lack of teachers' Sweden, choose to leave the schools they work at? Unfortunately, the damage is already done, although the Government's ambition to move forward is about anchoring and taking in many opinions. Does the Government believe that this uncertainty has increased the attractiveness of the nature conservation programme?
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-229	Mr President, I would like to I thank Anna Ekström. The National Agency for Education is, of course, the authority of the state and government, and it is working on the mission it has received. However, it is quite clear that the Swedish National Agency for Education has not read and read what has come from the four working groups of the national forestry programme and the approximately 150 consultation points on the four working groups' proposals. If they had, they would have seen that there is a great demand. It also highlights the high level of training needs in the sector as something that is absolutely necessary to overcome. We're both Social Democrats, Minister. We have worked and pushed for a young person who is applying for upper secondary school education to have as broad a foundation as possible. During life you will not be at your read. We do not work to keep you at your reading but to be able to make many different choices and be able to move on. After studying upper secondary school and trying out a profession, you may want to change your direction. If you have worked in a forest machine, you might see work as, for example, a nature tourist guide or hunting guide as a continuation, or you want to read on to the hunter. This is an area that we will need to strengthen in every way we can also in higher education, so that we obtain the necessary skills for the sector. I hope that the Government will take the views with it from here and see the clear commitment that exists here in the Parliament House for Natural Agricultural Upper Secondary School.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-232	Mr President, I would like to I had not originally thought that we should talk about the development of upper secondary school education, but it came up that it had happened in a hurry. But the process started in 2006. It was a long process, and you felt that you would want to do things faster. They wanted to finish up and get something done. It was a whole package, and there were big things, so it happens that you get to screw in the machine somewhere. Of course not everything has become perfect. The authorities also have their share in it. For example, one would look at the procurements that one did and that did not turn out so well, because there was not an end at the other end where the students would get their teacher degrees. I would also like to mention that Isak From highlights an important aspect of these working groups, which are part of the process. I would like to say that it is good to hear that there is a rich basis that you are going to use. That means there's a big width. I understand that the Government says that you will listen to the parts that are occupied here. The Government says that the concepts are going against each other quickly and in the long term. No, they don't have to do that, because programme development must be part of the long-term so that you follow where it goes. Then you also have to screw the programs. There are great opportunities to do this. I look forward to a very good answer.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-236	Mr President, I would like to There have been a lot of questions and views that have to do with the Swedish National Board of Education and its handling of this and previous issues, partly also issues that are far beyond the subject of today's interpellation debate. I do not see it as my role in this debate to explain or defend the actions of the National Agency for Education. It's up to the government to do it itself. The reason why we discuss the Swedish National Agency for Education so much here is, of course, that the work has been given a clear mandate from the government to produce a basis for decision. The decision-making basis must be independent of and assessed by the government, including in the light of the views that come in and in the light of the experience gained, for example, in the high school inquiry that is currently being consulted. Alexandra Anstrell began her speech with a fairly long list of what is needed and what needs to be considered. I can largely agree with a great deal of what Alexandra Anstrell said. It is important that we ensure that our high school programmes are involved and that we have a good supply of skills, not only in this area but in many areas. But it was an area that shone with its absence in Alexandra Anstrell's list, namely that it is also important that we ensure that principals who pursue upper secondary education are not overcompensated for their costs. This was highlighted in the investigation that led to the government's commission to the Swedish National Agency for Education: D et was concerned about overcompensation, i.e. that principals conduct training courses in an area where the costs are fairly low but the compensations are higher. This is an important thing for the government to watch. The state allocates money to ensure that children, young people, students and pupils receive a good education that can give them a good future in society. Of course, these funds should not go to profits but to good education. This is a very important aspect of the handling of the matter, but I think it has shone a little with its absence in this debate. Several of the debaters who have been up to date have highlighted that it creates uncertainty when discussing changes in programme structures, curricula and subject plans. In my view, this is an uncertainty that is not exclusive to the nature conservation programme. It is, as it were, in the nature of things that it raises questions when discussing changes in the content of curricula and subject plans. But it also creates commitment. I would be much more concerned if we had a situation where nobody cared about proposals made by the National Board of Education or others regarding the content. It goes without saying, I think, that we should have a rich, thorough and comprehensive debate on such an important issue as the subject matter of the vocational programmes of upper secondary education. Isak From mentioned the need for professional programmes to lead to other career choices later in life. We are in complete agreement on this point. This is a large and important area, a major and important issue, which, in my opinion, should be resolved in the context of the preparation of the secondary education inquiry. This is a common issue for all professional programmes.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-242	Mr President, I would like to I apologise if I laughed during the Minister's speech. Given the subject, I thought it was clever when she said it was in the nature of the matter. The tourism industry and nature tourism are crucial for a growing and prosperous rural environment. Large parts of Sweden are rural, even sparsely populated. This also applies here in Stockholm County. In Haninge, where I live, we have everything from wilderness to city. These trainings provide valuable knowledge and respect for our animals and nature. In addition, training contributes to job creation and growth in rural areas. If you in the government and the Social Democrats are in favour of nature tourism and understand the need, then why are you doing nothing, Madam Minister? I expect from you and the government that you will clearly show where you stand on this matter. Removing the degree goals related to nature tourism and then not developing one's own focus on the subject while claiming that nature tourism is important feels very contradictory. Does the government really not think that this is an issue worthy of attention? Or are natural tourism and rural areas not priority areas? Madam Minister! Leave the different orientations of the conservation programmes to remain! And as I said at the outset, change the levels of compensation instead, so that they reflect the actual costs of training! The only reasonable option is to have a sixth focus specifically on nature tourism, if the degree goals are changed.
i-d851aa9b37b0b23e-246	Mr President, I would like to I thank Alexandra Anstrell and the other participants for a stimulating debate. As I said at the outset, it is really fun and gratifying that there is such a great and strong commitment to this issue. I will deal with this issue with great seriousness. We have a proposal from the National Agency for Education. It goes without saying that we are asking the expert authority in this area to produce evidence on this type of issue. We will deal with this in the context of examining the other proposals from the Gymnasie inquiry. I will of course, when we do this work, have as our starting point that we base decisions on facts in order to ensure that the supply of skills really takes place in an efficient and efficient way. The importance of nature tourism and ecotourism and the importance of the tourism industry are not at all in dispute. When it comes to ensuring that this can be ensured only and exclusively with today's exact – on the comma when – formulations in curricula and subject plans, we will take the time and the opportunity to go through it properly and efficiently. At the same time, principals should not be overcompensated for their costs. It is also something to be ensured in the further handling. The natural tourism sector is constantly evolving. It is therefore natural that we constantly review the wordings contained in the steering documents. The school deserves peace of mind and the government's decisions are made in such a way that they can be implemented without too much concern in the sector. It also means that they should not be rushed forward. Thank you for an interesting and fruitful debate and the great consensus that exists on the importance and need of the tourism industry!
