i-522f0581378b72ef-0	Madam President, I would like Last Thursday and Friday, we met again at the European Council. This time we adopted conclusions on security and defence, Europe's social dimension, education and culture, as well as climate and Jerusalem. The ordinary meeting on Thursday was followed by an evening discussion on migration and foreign policy issues. On Friday morning, we met without Britain, on the one hand, for an enlarged Euro Summit, and, on the other hand, for Brexit, where we adopted guidelines for the next phase of negotiations on Britain's withdrawal from the EU. Madam President, I would like The European Council formally launched permanent structured cooperation on security and defence. 25 Member States have thus taken a historic step towards European defence cooperation. It is cooperation aimed at improving the military capabilities and efforts of the countries. At the same time, we mandated the High Representative to strengthen the EU's civilian efforts in our Common Security and Defence Policy. This is an issue where Sweden has been driving. We also agreed on the need to strengthen defence industrial development cooperation and to complete the review of the mechanism that finances the EU military missions, the so-called Athena mechanism. All in all, this marks a significant increase in the ambition of common security and defence cooperation within the EU. Madam President, I would like The meeting in Brussels was the first since we met in Gothenburg at the Summit on Fair Jobs and Growth. Appreciation was expressed for the Gothenburg Summit. The way forward is now set out in the conclusions we adopted. An important part of social work will be the implementation of the social pillar. The Commission believes that this should be linked to the European semester, which I believe is consistent with Sweden's interests. It is good that we are using existing instruments instead of developing new processes. We will come back to the social dimension at our March European Council next year and probably also, if necessary, next June. We also had a good discussion on education and culture. Education is an important part of the European agenda for jobs and growth and crucial for a competitive Europe. There was broad agreement on national competences for education and culture, but there was also a willingness to deepen cooperation between countries in several areas. This is not least about the value of developing the Erasmus programme. We were also able, a few days after the one planet climate finance meeting in Paris, to confirm our determination to implement the Paris Agreement as a matter of urgency. Madam President, I would like During dinner we discussed migration. The discussion was based on the leadership agenda of the President of the European Council, Mr Tusk. We raised both the internal and the external dimension of migration. The major stumbling block still concerns the issue of obtaining a fair distribution, in which all Member States assume their responsibilities for receiving migrants and asylum seekers. As Members know very well at this point, it has been very slow in that respect. In his discussion paper, Donald Tusk questioned whether it was possible to achieve a system based on compulsory redistribution. I believe that we must continue to seek a common European system in which all Member States share responsibility. I am not alone in this – far from it. I wasn't at this meeting either. There are many of us who see the need for a functioning and sustainable common asylum system. Ultimately, it is a question of defending Schengen cooperation. It is therefore positive that the incoming Bulgarian Presidency is now to resume negotiations in the Council of Ministers. A so-called Sherpa group shall be set up to support this work. It is high time that we agreed on a common solution and that we stick to our timetable to reach an agreement by June 2018, if that is to be done by qualified majority. During dinner, the sanctions against Russia were also discussed, in response to the actions in Ukraine. The countries in Russia's vicinity have definitely borne a higher cost than others in terms of reduced exports and trade with Russia. Nevertheless, there was a great deal of agreement on keeping the EU together in relation to Russia and on the continuation of sanctions. The European Council will return to the situation in Ukraine at a later date. Jerusalem was also discussed. We were able to confirm the EU's position on a two-state solution for Israel and Palestine and the status of Jerusalem in that process. Madam President, I would like On Friday we continued with a euro summit in a so-called extended format. The main issue at the meeting was the process of completing the Banking Union and breaking the deadlock in the negotiations on the common deposit guarantee. The Eurogroup and Ecofin will now continue to work, and the European Council will return to the issues in June 2018. In that discussion, I stressed that work should now focus on implementing decisions already taken rather than building new institutions, such as a European Finance Minister, which has been mentioned. I also stressed the importance of ensuring that work on deepening EMU should not spill over in areas where all Member States should be involved in taking decisions. Madam President, I would like Last Friday we were able to agree that sufficient progress has been made to start phase two in negotiations on Britain's withdrawal from the EU. We now have an agreement in principle between the EU negotiators and the UK covering the three key exit issues, namely citizens' rights, the financial settlement and the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. There is no doubt a great deal of work to be done to complete phase one, especially on the Irish question. But we were able to agree to now open the second phase of the negotiation. We were also able to adopt guidelines for that work. That's a good thing. It sends a welcome signal to business and citizens on both sides of the English Channel. The next step will be to negotiate a transitional mechanism that will apply between the withdrawal itself and the time when the new relationship can enter into force. The detailed negotiating directives for the negotiation of the transitional mechanism will be adopted by the General Council in January next year. At the start of the negotiations, the framework for the future relationship between the EU and the United Kingdom will also be established. Guidelines setting out the EU-27 entry values in that part shall be adopted by the European Council in March. This, Madam President, was the report back from the meeting.
i-522f0581378b72ef-17	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. I'll relate a little to what the Prime Minister raised. Several important issues concerning the future of the EU have been discussed. I am thinking of the proposal put forward by the Commission concerning a common EU finance minister and a common finance department. This issue was also raised at the meeting of the EU Board before the European Council, where the parties agreed that the Prime Minister should raise the issue. Obviously, it has also come up on the agenda. Did the Prime Minister express the sceptical attitude of the Swedish Parliament on this issue, and how did the reactions come? What is the attitude of the other countries on this issue?
i-522f0581378b72ef-20	Madam President, I would like I expressed the very clearly sceptical, to say no more than skeptical, attitude of the Swedish Parliament on this issue. I believe that we do not need a new Minister of Finance, because we have a brilliant Minister of Finance. On the other hand, if the Eurogroup wants to develop something that they consider to be their Finance Minister, it is up to them as long as it does not interfere with the influence or decision-making competence of the EU-27 in the future. I have been very clear about this. Nor are not everyone in the Eurogroup in favour of this idea. My assessment is therefore that it is probably not something that will happen in the near future. We never know, and this is the best thing, but it does not seem that the Eurogroup agrees that it is time for a single finance minister even for the Eurogroup.
i-522f0581378b72ef-23	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. There are, of course, slightly different views on the current Finance Minister, which we think could be replaced. I have another question, which concerns the deepening of EMU. The Committee on Budgets has taken a critical view of these proposals, which go in a more centralised direction, and also believes that, at this stage, the proposals may not even be discussed. Did the Prime Minister present Sweden's critical position on this issue?
i-522f0581378b72ef-26	Madam President, I would like We have put forward the position that we support, namely that enhanced cooperation in the Eurogroup – which may well be the reason for this – must not mean reducing the influence of the other Member States on the issues in which the EU-27 is to decide. It is the same position of principle, and I have clearly expressed it.
i-522f0581378b72ef-28	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the presentation. I would like to begin by regretting what was, in principle, a rejection of the European Union as regards the US's recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. This was a decision made by Congress in the United States in 1995, and Jerusalem has actually been the capital since 1950. Recognising Jerusalem as the capital of Israel in no way constitutes an obstacle to a two-state solution, and we would like to express the position of the Swedish Democrats, which is that Sweden should also follow and move the embassy to Jerusalem. I turn to the migration negotiations, which have marked the recent summits in the European Union. They're going crazy. It is clear today that the EU is not the way forward to ensure a responsible Swedish migration policy. The issue of quotas has created a rift within the Union. It is also regrettable that the focus today is on quotas, because that is not the way forward. The Mediterranean is still a burial ground. Last year, some 5,000 people died. This year it is so far 3,000. The EU bears responsibility for this and also for Sweden. Attracting with attractive residence permits and welfare enables people to take the risk of crossing the border. What the focus should be on is to secure the border. Other countries of the world have done just that, and then no people die at sea. What responsibility does the Prime Minister feel that the EU and Sweden have for the situation in the Mediterranean?
i-522f0581378b72ef-34	Madam President, I would like Firstly, it is wrong in substance: Sweden has changed migration policy so that we should not have substantially different rules from the rest of the EU. The EU is working from three perspectives. One is, of course, the immediate region, and that is why cooperation with the African states is deepening more and more in order for fewer people to have to take the dangerous route from the African continent, on the one hand, and across the Mediterranean, on the other. We do not want people to die on the Mediterranean, and that is why this cooperation is gradually being strengthened. We are also in cooperation with Turkey. This neighbourhood cooperation is important, and it is expanded and deepened. The second perspective is, of course, to ensure that our external border is in order. That is, of course, the very basis of our internal cooperation, such as not having internal border controls. As long as this does not work well enough, we need to have the controls that we now have. The third perspective is that we take joint responsibility. People will continue to seek asylum in the future, because we cannot rule out a major humanitarian disaster which actually means that people need to flee. These could be natural disasters, wars, conflicts or pure starvation. Such situations will arise, and the EU will have a shared responsibility. That is our firm opinion. It cannot be for only a few Member States to take that responsibility. The right to seek asylum is universal. I cannot see it disappearing in the development work carried out by the UNHCR within the framework of the UN. The asylum law will remain in place, and everyone will also have to assume their responsibilities. Responsibility should be shared; some countries cannot take on an individual and substantially greater responsibility than others.
i-522f0581378b72ef-39	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister. What the government has done is, of course, to introduce a temporary asylum law, which is then eroded by other amnesty proposals, so that a 'no' is perhaps a 'yes'. You cannot therefore trust Swedish migration policy. We also have a situation where Swedish reception of asylum seekers is significantly higher than the EU average. There is talk of a minimum level of legislation in the EU, but it is not consistent with the statistics, where Swedish reception is significantly higher than it is in the EU. What should be done is to secure the border and ensure that people do not seek asylum in this extremely deadly way. Australia has succeeded in this. There's no one dying in the water there. The transition to a quota refugee system is much better.
i-522f0581378b72ef-42	Madam President, I would like The Swedish migration policy was therefore not discussed at this meeting. We have changed Swedish migration legislation. Kinnunen should know about that too. What we are doing at European level is increasing the share of quota refugees. This is also agreed by the Swedish Parliament, and we are gradually increasing the number of up to 5 000. The whole work that is being done with the African countries is precisely aimed at fewer people trying to get over these dangerous journeys. There is no doubt about that. That work is in progress. However, people will still have to seek asylum on some occasions, and we shall stand up for that right of asylum. It will be there, and there is broad agreement on this. Now it is just a matter of ensuring that all countries assume their responsibilities. You can't be in an association and just do the fun and the positive, but you actually have to make an effort even in what is a bit difficult. It is our firm belief that this applies to all Member States.
i-522f0581378b72ef-46	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. Let me begin by saying that I, and I believe the whole House, appreciate the transparency of these reports. It is valuable for us and for the Swedish people to receive what is reported from the European Council. In the run-up to this meeting, there was, of course, a huge debate both in the EU Board and in the media on President Tusk's informal discussion paper, the so-called leadership agenda, and, in particular, on the migration section, in which he basically overturned the distribution of asylum seekers between countries that has been talked about and called the quota refugee distribution for inefficient and divisive. It is gratifying that the Prime Minister expressed and agreed with the Swedish view rather than Tusk's view of migration policy. In Swedish media it has been reported that Germany put pressure on both Tusk and the other countries based on the starting points that Tusk had put forward. What is the situation in the rest of the Union on this issue? Is there a majority in favour of running over those countries that are opposed to quotas and redistribution mechanisms? If so, is it something that the Prime Minister believes will happen as a result of the discussion unless something else is achieved in June 2018?
i-522f0581378b72ef-50	Madam President, I would like It was a discussion about the discussion paper. Not only does the Prime Minister share the view that Sweden has, but the Prime Minister also drives the view that Sweden has, among other things, together with Germany. Several countries were clear that the discussion paper was unhappily formulated and had no support in a majority of countries. On the contrary, a majority believed that we had to reach a joint decision – and there is the June 2018 border. It was therefore clarified in that part that the incoming Bulgarian Presidency should resume the process in the Council. Concrete proposals must now be made on what possible compromises should look like, and so on. The Government may return to the Riksdag on what it may mean. But we can't wait six months, and then we're in the same situation again. Work is about to begin, and the Bulgarian Presidency is ready for it. Donald Tusk realizes it's necessary to continue. The discussion was successful. Now the work continues and is concretized with the so-called Sherpa Group, which is tasked with starting to process which proposals can be reasonable and so on. Is the majority prepared to run over? It remains to be seen. There is, of course, a desire, including from the Swedish side, to reach a consensus solution. But we have expressed ourselves that we are prepared to go to majority decisions. There are others too who are ready to do so. Whether a majority in a sharp position would choose it I shall not speculate on, but for our part we say that if we do not find a solution by consensus, then let us go by qualified majority.
i-522f0581378b72ef-54	Madam President, I would like I appreciate the answer given by the Prime Minister here. I turn to the issue of Brexit, where I also appreciate the outcome of the summit. It is important that all people are told what applies to themselves and to the future of their families, whether they are in the European Union or in the United Kingdom as a European. However, what I am a little sceptical about – not just to pay tribute to the Prime Minister – is the social pillar. Let me remind the Prime Minister that there is no majority in this House to proceed with concrete proposals to do things within the social pillar. Let Europe sort out the problems we have tackled so far and stick to it. A Merry Christmas, Prime Minister!
i-522f0581378b72ef-58	Madam President, I would like I start with Merry Christmas also to Eskil Erlandsson. We may have different views, but the social pillar is signed, and the work will be taken forward. As I have pointed out a number of times, this takes place within the framework of the division of competences that already exists between the Member States, the European Union and the European institutions. The Commission will come back with proposals on which further work will be carried out. This will not happen with any changes in skills. Sweden decides what Sweden will still decide on.
i-522f0581378b72ef-60	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Prime Minister for reporting back! It is good that the Prime Minister and Sweden are pushing the issue of joint distribution, the distribution mechanism and that all countries should assume their responsibilities in relation to refugees and migration. We all know that, in his invitation, Mr Tusk said that the meeting of EU prime ministers would deal with sensitive issues but without taking formal decisions within the framework of the leaders' agenda. The Left Party believes that this is a new way of sneaking through sensitive issues at EU level, including increased EMU coordination and joint finance ministers. We are, as you know, very critical of dealing with an increasing number of important political issues, such as the proposal for a common finance minister. Important issues are considered informal at these summits. We want Swedish citizens to know more, and we also want it to be made understandable where the EU is going. I heard that the Prime Minister took on board what the Left Party said last week. We were clear that the Prime Minister would take the floor and say no to a common Minister of Finance. I understood that the Prime Minister asked for the floor and clearly said that Sweden has its own Minister of Finance and that that is what should apply and nothing else.
i-522f0581378b72ef-64	Madam President, I would like I'll start with what Amineh Kakabaveh said at the end. Yes, it is clearly stated on my part as regards an EU-wide finance minister. I say again that if the Eurogroup wants one, it is a bit difficult to stop. But there is no consensus in the Eurogroup. That is why I say that I do not believe that we see such a thing in the foreseeable future – at least not in the EU area. Then there was the question of the musselland. I disagree. When conclusions are to be adopted, the Government will go to the Riksdag to obtain support for the conclusions. These are the decisions we make. But I think that it can be a good method for moving forward and discussing things without going to decisions in the form of conclusions. Take the migration issue as an example. Now Tusk made an analysis in his discussion paper that was not shared by the majority. We knew that from the start. Now we made it clear that work on developing a common asylum system in the EU will continue. We did so so that we said that a concrete group, the so-called Sherpa Group, can start working on the issue so that there can be a solution in place in June. This was openly stated in the House. We do the work without trying to produce a joint text. Now it is established that the work will continue. This also applies to the question of a Minister of Finance. It's an open discussion. Some people want one, others don't want one. It's not a sneaking thing. I do not share that view. Sometimes decisions are made with conclusions. The latest conclusions on certain subjects are available here. In a number of subjects, there was no need to make decisions in the form of conclusions, but we discussed these topics – and I have presented them to the House of the Swedish Parliament. I do not share the analysis that it is to sneak with the development of the European Union, but one can certainly have different views on it.
i-522f0581378b72ef-70	Madam President, I would like There are certainly differences of opinion on certain things, but here we believe that on the issue of migration these views are familiar. They have been operated since 2015. But there are other issues, such as economic and monetary issues and other important issues, that the Swedish people must be able to take part in and discuss. The issues must not disappear in paperwork. The discussions in the EU Board, the House and in the committees provide more transparency for the Swedish people as to where developments are going within the EU. It's important. I am pleased that the Prime Minister asked for the floor and indicated that we in Sweden do not want a common Minister of Finance. The Left Party also regrets the establishment of Pesco. We've been against it.
i-522f0581378b72ef-73	Madam President, I would like Decisions are decisions, and when we intend to go to decisions and receive proposals for decisions to the European Council, the government goes to this House to obtain support for those decisions. It is an open process; it is not a closed paperwork, I mean. I think the Left Party also sometimes has meetings where you don't go to decisions but discuss how to move forward. Sometimes you have to do that in every context. It certainly happens between the parties here and in the committees, so it's not a strange thing to do. But when you go to decisions, it should be open and transparent. There we have a order between the government and the parliament on how it is handled, and we intend to follow it to the letter. As is said here, it is important that we also have openness to the Swedish people about what is happening for development in this area too. It is an inalienable part of democracy, and we shall stand up for it.
i-522f0581378b72ef-76	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. We have been able to read in the media about this and have received a written report with the conclusions. We Christian Democrats are in favour of the European Union. We see that our Christian Democratic friends in Europe have played a major role in countering fundamentalist forces such as communism but also Nazism. It is extremely important that we continue along this path. We would like the European Union to do the right thing. We are talking about the principle of subsidiarity, and I know that the Prime Minister often gets annoyed when I ask questions about the social pillar. He believes that nothing in it goes beyond the Treaty of Lisbon. Nevertheless, I believe that there is a risk that the social pillar will become a Pandora's box. The Prime Minister has said yes to the social pillar and has received support for it in Parliament, but we do not know what will follow. Yes, we know there will be legislation, but what will it mean? There are now proposals for a labour market agency, which will be able to intervene in the Swedish labour market system. Is it reasonable, according to the Prime Minister, for the EU to decide on quotas for parental insurance? There is now a proposal of four months. Is it reasonable to discuss minimum wages in the social pillar? We received a newsletter from the European Union Union, calling on EU leaders to make an action plan after this meeting to focus on raising minimum wages. I just wonder: where are we going, Prime Minister, with regard to social issues? Are we about to hand over all the issues over which we want national self-determination?
i-522f0581378b72ef-84	Madam President, I would like No, I don't get annoyed. I am more surprised because there is no support for the idea that Europe should take over more and more. It is clearly stated in the conclusions that this is in the existing division of competences between the EU and the Member States. There is today a lunta that is probably quite thick in the social field. It doesn't change. There are certainly some who want a common European minimum wage, but there is no desire among Member States to break the various negotiating systems. I am clear that we are not going to accept anything other than the Swedish model. Sweden has the world's best wage formation. We don't want anything else. It delivers real wage increases, productivity, growth and flexibility. That's what we're gonna keep. If others want to make other decisions, they can do so, but we will stand up for our model. And there is great respect for the Swedish model, because everyone sees that it delivers success. At the same time, I think that we in the European Union and that cooperation need to reflect on the development of social conditions. It is, in my view, the citizens of the Member States who are to be the best of this, and if we have a common market, we must be able to express in that market, for example, the right conditions in the labour market. People should not be exploited. I think it is right that the EU should lay down a bar and a framework for working together. Otherwise, we are on a sloping level where anything can be approved, and that is not to the benefit of either Swedish employees or any other employees. However, the fact that we are essentially managing our own labour market policy and wage formation as we see fit is exactly what I have been expressing all along, including in the European Union. We do it our own way, but we follow these important issues.
i-522f0581378b72ef-89	Madam President, I would like I believe that the Prime Minister thinks it reasonable that we have quotas for parental insurance at European level, that we take those decisions, because that is part of the social pillar. The Prime Minister also thinks that the discussion should continue on minimum wages, because it is in the social pillar, and that a labour market authority that can intervene in our various systems is okay. Another issue is migration. I see that the Prime Minister wants to fight for quotas, and there is a huge risk of division. Was it discussed at the meeting how many asylum seekers could be expected to receive within the EU? If we are now to have a redistribution system, I assume that the countries that are currently receiving very few applicants still wonder how many can be involved. Are there discussions about levels?
i-522f0581378b72ef-92	Madam President, I would like No, that is the wrong conclusion as far as wages are concerned. I'm telling you, we're gonna stand up for our wage-setting model. It's the best there is, and we'll stand up for it. There should be no interference with our wage-setting model. A labour market authority can be set up in a variety of ways. If we have someone to look at how we get education and lifelong learning on our continent, that is one way of strengthening competitiveness. That is not to say that the agency should go in and tell us how to manage our labour market policy. But we need to strengthen competitiveness throughout the European Union, not least in the area of digital skills, so let us see what such an authority should do before we take a final position. No, there is no discussion about how many refugees to receive, but it is a question of finding a system that benefits fairly. There's nothing concrete there.
i-522f0581378b72ef-95	Madam President, I would like The world is now facing a choice, one might say, between increased nationalism or greater cooperation and solidarity between countries to live up to the Convention on Human Rights. We are now seeing this clearly in the European Union, where on the one hand we have Hungary and Poland and, on the other hand, countries such as Sweden, Germany and France, which defend cooperation. Mrs Pethrus referred to the social pillar, which we Liberals have a slightly different view of than the rest of the Alliance. We have seen that the open method of coordination, i.e. the exchange of experiences in the social sphere and the learning from each other, has not gone much well. Well, there are lots of papers written about this, and I've seen it in collaboration within the AGE Platform Europe and so on. But people are suffering very badly, not least after the economic crisis we have been through, because no minimum protection has been provided in the social field. Then I think of health care and such. Now there are meetings in March and June, and my question is how we in Sweden are preparing so that we do not get into detailed regulation but achieve the goal of minimum protection so that people from, for example, Bulgaria and Romania do not have to come here and beg for anything to live on.
i-522f0581378b72ef-100	Madam President, I would like In essence, I share that description. It is extremely important for us to be able to demonstrate to people that this cooperation is ultimately intended to improve people's conditions. Now it looks different across the EU. We have different levels of social protection, health care and whatever it may be. That is exactly why the discussion has begun there. We have different conditions and starting points, but we must move in a direction that shows that we take responsibility for the social dimension. Therefore, the text of the conclusion is designed in such a way that it is the current division of competences that applies. The Commission's intention is to follow this through the so-called semester. It also sets out a number of perspectives to be followed and consistently evaluated, and we can exchange experiences. Already there we believe that the starting point is the right one. Then Sweden will talk about how we intend to increase the level of competence, strengthen lifelong learning and get more women into the labour market. Other countries can then tell us what they intend to do, and we will come back with systematic development work. That is the Commission's idea on the whole, and that is how we intend to prepare. Of course, here too we will have to return to Parliament to see that we have a common understanding and that will be what it was intended to be: exchange of experience and development of the social dimension, but of course with respect for the laws and decision-making powers of the different countries.
i-522f0581378b72ef-105	Madam President, I would like Here is a question regarding Brexit: When Swedish drug control moved 70 km from Stockholm to Uppsala, 75 percent of the employees were lost. It took ten years for the damage to be repaired in the form of a delay in the approval of the medicinal product and so on. Now Ema, the European medicines control, is moving from London to Amsterdam. What can we do, for example, in other countries' pharmaceutical controls, to help move so that we do not have a stop on new medicines and monitoring of drug safety?
i-522f0581378b72ef-106	Madam President, I would like This is something that everyone is thinking about: How should the move be done so that we do not slow down? This would have happened even if they moved from London to Stockholm, as we wanted. We pushed this hard and agreed to try to get the authority here. It's not like that. It's going to Amsterdam. I cannot answer exactly what needs to be done here and now, but we need to help each other. Sweden has very much a competence that is in demand, so I think the most important thing is that we ourselves take care to get involved and look at the risks and that we do a risk analysis also at the European authority. We can contribute our expertise there and elsewhere so that we do not lose momentum. There is always such a risk, but let us help each other so that it does not happen.
i-522f0581378b72ef-108	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the statement from the European Council. There were many important issues on the agenda: security and defence and, unfortunately, migration, once again. I must say, however, that I am grateful that we have a Prime Minister who is clear that the decisions taken should be taken. It is quite incomprehensible when Tusk starts saying that we should now find some other system. It is very unfortunate in substance, but it is also unfortunate in view of what other decisions would then not apply. What are we going to renegotiate next time? It is very good that the Prime Minister was so clear, because we must have a distribution of refugees in Europe. There will be new waves of refugees, so this issue will always be relevant. It is a disgrace to Europe that this issue cannot be resolved and that our rich part of the world does not assume its responsibilities but that only a few countries do. So I am grateful once again that the Prime Minister was clear and also said the natural thing: we can take it by qualified majority if we do not make it further. It was also very good that the European Council on the issue of Israel and Palestine was clear that it is a two-state solution that we are seeking. I may think that Donald Trumps's statement, which upsets the fragile balance of power that exists in the region, is very unfortunate. So it is good that the European Union, which is an important player in this matter, was clear that it is a two-state solution that we should seek and that we must now continue to work on it.
i-522f0581378b72ef-112	Madam President, I would like As far as the issue of migration is concerned, it is just as Marie Granlund says: we stand up for this. It is extremely important for the substance of the matter, and I also believe absolutely, as I have said before, that the European Union will be seriously harmed if we are not able to make a decision of this kind and do not get a system in which we take joint responsibility. We must keep the focus on cooperation in the immediate area, so that fewer people need to make these dangerous journeys, and on the external border, but then we must have a sustainable system in Europe where everyone takes responsibility. That is why the discussion continues. Now it feels like we're back on track where we were losing pace. Now it is going to a Sherpa group, and the incoming Presidency is going to drive the process so that we can see what proposals can come up. As far as Israel and Palestine are concerned, I also share that view. The Swedish democrats are very offside with what they expressed just now. The EU agrees on the two-state solution, the status of Jerusalem within it and how to achieve that status. The UN also agrees on how this should be done, so the status is, in our view, clearly defined, politically and legally. This is what we should be following, and it felt good that there was a clear consensus on it.
i-522f0581378b72ef-115	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I am pleased with the clarity that applies to Israel and Palestine. Much has been said in this House about the social pillar, and I find it difficult to understand the objections that exist. It goes without saying to me: after the financial crisis in the 1990s and since the 21st century, the gaps have become very large in Europe. Many people feel left behind, and we have also seen that there have been different types of reactions to how they have voted in elections in different countries and so on. It goes without saying to me that these issues should be raised. As the Prime Minister says, it is still the nation states that should decide how to do so. It would have been quite obvious if the bourgeois parties had voted in favour of the Posting of Workers Directive and Laval, where it is actually about withdrawing power from the EU so that we can retain the Swedish wage formation.
i-522f0581378b72ef-118	Madam President, I would like This is a typical example of how legislation at European level can restrict or extend our national freedom. The fact that the amendment to the Posting of Workers Directive, which is now being implemented, increases Swedish freedom of action is beyond doubt, combined with the fact that we are amending Swedish legislation. Now the parties can stand up for their agreements in a good way. As far as the social pillar is concerned, I share the same view. It is of fundamental importance for people to see that there is a social dimension and that we consider how more people can access the labour market, that the labour market becomes equal, that it is the right conditions and a fair working environment, and that you have the right to support if you are out of work. Here, countries are free to choose, but it is important that this still exists so that individuals see that cooperation is there for them and so that we can reduce extremism and exclusion and ensure that we have an inclusive society.
i-522f0581378b72ef-120	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. Much can be achieved under the current Treaty by working together, while fully respecting the competences of the Member States and the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. These words, freely translated, appear in the Council conclusions on the social dimension, education and culture. On this basis, unlike the Center Party and the Christian Democrats, I am pleased that these issues are being discussed, as developments in these areas are so important for the conditions for us citizens of the European Union to come closer together and build a common future. The conclusions touch on a number of issues, but I wanted to highlight two in particular: equality, where there is a point concerning pay gaps between women and men, and mobility and exchange programmes in education. These are two issues among the others that are of course extremely important. It would be interesting, Madam President, to hear the Prime Minister say something about the discussions in the Council on these very two points: the exchange programme in education and how it intends to work on gender equality.
i-522f0581378b72ef-123	Madam President, I would like I want to start with exchange studies. As described here, it can be a bottom-up, i.e. a collaboration between universities. We can develop the possibility that degrees from different universities are approved, but it all starts from a collaboration that starts at university level. There is no top-down decision as to who should cooperate with each other. We are absolutely convinced that it will strengthen competitiveness the more mobility we have among students between countries. The more opportunities for cooperation, recognition of degrees and so on, the better it is for our competitiveness and for the individual. This is one way of stimulating this kind of interaction. In terms of gender equality, it is a matter of both monitoring and clarifying the pay gap between women and men in the labour market. Pay differentials exist in Europe, just as they exist here. Women earn on average worse than men. We need to get to grips with this. The first is to clarify what the differences are. The second is to see what causes these differences. If there are differences in position, equal opportunities must be given for job development. It is both analytical work and methodological work for women and men to have equal opportunities in the labour market, to develop at work and to earn as much. For my part, I think it is important that the social partners have a great deal of responsibility here. But we will follow this closely and develop it, and we will also look at what authorities can do to follow this work. For the Swedish part, however, it is very much in the social partners.
i-522f0581378b72ef-128	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. It will be interesting to participate in this process for Sweden and continue to work on these issues. Before leaving the Chamber for today, I would like to take this opportunity to wish the President, with his colleagues, the Prime Minister, colleagues and those listening to this re-report, a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-522f0581378b72ef-130	Madam President, I would like I would also like to wish Jonas Eriksson a Merry Christmas, as well as the President and others.
i-522f0581378b72ef-131	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report and what has been said during the debate. I come back to the social pillar and have another angle on it. The conclusions of the European Council state this:- to make rapid progress on current social affairs at EU level and to be prepared to address future initiatives announced by the Commission in its work programme for 2018. This is what would be the responsibility of Member States and of course of the government and parliament. My first question is: what does the quote from the conclusions of the European Council which I have just read out? We have all learned and think it is good that subsidiarity and proportionality are the basic principles of legislation and what we decide in this House. When we look at, for example, the Posting of Workers Directive, we think it goes without saying that something that concerns countries and freedom of movement should have the result that it had. I have no objection to that. Then I can have a point of view on the content. However, with regard to parental insurance, which is definitely part of the social pillar, I see considerable difficulties in putting pressure on the countries. A hipster family at Södermalm may have an idea of how to distribute time in parenthood while a Catholic rural family in our neighboring Poland has a completely different one. So I think we are on a dangerous path. Then I wonder, Prime Minister: is it the case that a ball against supranationality has been set in motion?
i-522f0581378b72ef-136	Madam President, I would like No, it's the same answer: it's within the current competence. The social pillar does not in any way change skills. It is also very clearly described here. It's all about the established competences. Maybe we'll talk past each other. Today we also have rules in the social field in the European Union. That lunta is actually quite thick. I'm sure there's a difference of opinion about how much to use. However, the social pillar is not intended to increase supranationality, but for us to tackle together issues of ensuring that people come to work, not least young people, that women have the same employment rate as men and that these are the nicest conditions, so that they are not exploited in their work. There is some sort of plan for how we should educate people, raise skills and thus competitiveness and so on. But this happens within the framework of what the countries themselves want or can do. The fact that we are following these issues together is, in my view, extremely important, as is the system for it. The Commission proposes to do so within the framework of the semester. There, too, these kinds of issues are being put in place, and then countries are left to decide for themselves how they intend to do – how do we intend to increase employment and ensure that young people get to work and so on? That is the very principle. I will return to the fact that this part does not strengthen supranationality. I think the gloomy picture is exaggerated. That is my opinion.
i-522f0581378b72ef-140	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. The fact that we feel that we want a restrictive approach here and do not want supranationalism to take over has to do with the fact that we are fundamentally very fond of the Union. We do not want too much between us and the Union in our love for the Union, and that is why we need to keep supranationality down. One issue I raised last time is whether the decision-making methods are changing. The basic principle is that the Prime Minister and the other ministers should discuss in advance with the EU Council for decisions. Now we have the concepts of......................................................................................................... How does the method of preparation relate to the basic principle that the Prime Minister and his Heads of State must come to the EU Council before talking to Brussels?
i-522f0581378b72ef-142	Madam President, I would like Speaking of supranationality, I would like to remind you of what Marie Granlund said in her speech. What has now been decided on the Posting of Workers Directive increases the possibility for Swedish parties to stand up for their contracts. It would have been good if the Moderates had also supported this and wanted such a regulation of the Posting of Workers Directive that has now come into place, but the Moderates were against this, and it was a bit strange. Now, in fact, the parties are better able to stand up for their collective agreements, combined with changes in legislation here at home. When we go to decisions, the positions should of course receive approval and have support in the Swedish parliament. Otherwise, we cannot be involved in making the decisions. It is therefore exactly the same order as before. However, as in all organisations, there are sometimes discussions that do not necessarily mean that you should make decisions but that you should try to sort out difficult issues.
i-522f0581378b72ef-144	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the reporting back from the summit, although it contains a number of negative news. Not least, we have news of the plans for common European defence. From a national conservative point of view, it is utterly reprehensible, and it is very worrying and serious. From a national conservative perspective, we now see that the EU and Sweden, with the Prime Minister, are primarily moving NATO's affairs and bringing the European Union closer to NATO and other interests. From a national conservative point of view, it would be wiser to strengthen the Swedish defence, a defence that has been laid down in many ways today. The focus must be on building one's own defence and having one's own defence capabilities, not relying on other interests. It is also ominous to hear about the plans for European migration policy. In this area too, the EU has been a problem rather than a solution. Here I think we should look at the Visegrad countries, namely the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland and, not least, Hungary. These countries have a completely different view of these issues, and it is regrettable that the Prime Minister is prepared to force them, not least, into a common migration policy. Instead, we should move in a direction where individual Member States take care of their own borders and also have to decide their own migration policy. The Prime Minister spoke earlier about Schengen, and we have seen – not least in 2015 – that Schengen cooperation has collapsed and does not work at all. Instead of considering common solutions and sticking to Schengen cooperation, we should look at a solution in which the Member States decide for themselves.
i-522f0581378b72ef-148	Madam President, I would like As far as European defence is concerned, it is important that we are involved and contribute together to the increased security we need. When it comes to strengthening our own defence capabilities, that is exactly what we are doing. That is why we are providing the defence with more resources, to increase both personal and material, and we will not be able to do that with the huge tax cuts proposed by, among other things, the Swedish Democrats. The second concerns the cooperation we develop. We develop bilateral cooperation, we develop cooperation within the EU and we develop cooperation with NATO. It is also a way to strengthen our own ability and ensure that we contribute to the cooperation. It is an important part of European security. As far as migration policy is concerned, Pavel Gamov is probably drawing the wrong conclusion, however. The problem here is not that countries are saying that they are going to take care of their own borders and that everyone else is allowed to take care of their own, but that is not what Hungary and Poland are saying. You want the market, and you want it to work. It says that it stands up for common external borders and cooperation in the neighbourhood. But what we are saying is this: if we are to have a common external border in order to have an internal market – not least a labour market and a market for goods and services – and if this is to work, we must also stand up for a common migration policy. So Pavel Gamov says that these countries would only want their national decision-making, closing their own borders and not caring about the environment, and that is the wrong conclusion. Instead, they are very interested in ensuring that the internal market works, and then our argument is: if we are to do so – if we are to have a common external border – indeed the internal, including migration policy, must work in solidarity.
i-522f0581378b72ef-152	Madam President, I would like I would remind the Prime Minister that the Swedish defence is more or less closed down. We can hardly defend our own country, and we see that Sweden and the EU are now connecting increasingly closely to NATO. I find that very regrettable from a national conservative point of view. As far as the internal market and migration policy are concerned, the two are completely different areas, so it is unfortunate that the Prime Minister mixes apples and pears in the debate. The Prime Minister said earlier that there is no support for the EU taking over more and more. I would like to strongly question this statement. We have not least the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker, who has repeatedly expressed himself in an increasingly federalist direction. We also have the former President of the European Parliament, Martin Schulz, who is now the party leader of the German Social Democrats and who has stated that the new Treaty must mean a United States of Europe. Now we also see our own Minister of Finance, and for some time we have our own Minister of Foreign Affairs. We will also have our own Department of Labour in the European Union.
i-522f0581378b72ef-155	Madam President, I would like The claim that the defense is closed is a form of rhetoric that I do not even intend to concern myself with. With regard to the fact that the EU is taking over, it is clear that there are differences of opinion in the European Union as to how much the Member States should decide and how much the EU should decide. There has always been, and there will also be in the future. What I am saying is that there is no majority in favour of, for example, the creation of an EU finance minister's post. There will be those who want to, and if they want to do so in the euro area and in the euro area, I have said that it is their decision– but it is not at the level of EU finance ministers. Nor is there any discussion about changing the Treaty in any way that would increase the EU's power. That discussion is far away, I'll tell you.
i-522f0581378b72ef-158	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your statement, Prime Minister. As the Prime Minister explained, one of the issues discussed at the European Council was migration, and I have a question that borders on that raised earlier by Eskil Erlandsson. First of all, it has been made quite clear that the Prime Minister has been pushing for a long time for a solidarity mechanism. As I see it, in times of crisis it is natural for the countries of the European Union to help each other, and it must of course also apply to migration. As the Prime Minister has explained, I also think it wise that we in the European Union have a fair distribution of migrants. It makes Europe stronger and stronger. What is worrying is that President Donald seems to have turned the question of a solidarity mechanism, as the Prime Minister said. Mr Tusk seems to have changed his position, although there is probably a majority in favour of a solidarity mechanism. The question I was going to ask is how the Prime Minister estimates the likelihood of getting this mechanism, and I think he has answered that. However, as an economist, I believe that both people and countries often respond to incentives, and the question I would therefore like to ask is: how does the Prime Minister view the possibility of using the budget tool to get the solidarity mechanism through? Finally, I would also like to know if Donald Tusk got the cutoff he earned.
i-522f0581378b72ef-162	Madam President, I would like Defeating or not – you should face things objectively, and we have done so. We have presented our views and a majority supports the view that we should have a system of solidarity. Donald Tusk has also agreed that this is the case, and that is why the process with the so-called Sherpa group hopefully starts under Bulgarian leadership as quickly as it ever goes after the turn of the year. We have to start making proposals. So that process should get started. As far as probability is concerned, it is difficult to answer. We know where the resistance is above all, and that is why we are saying that we should be ready to go to decisions by qualified majority. The issue of budgetary impact on individual countries has also been raised. This can be done in the context of the debate on the financial perspective for the next period, because the possibilities are not there right now. However, we believe that such a possibility should be opened up. As someone put it – I think it was the Belgian Prime Minister – countries that do not follow the decisions made and do not take their share of the joint responsibility cannot treat the EU as an ATM. You can't just collect money and otherwise do what you want. That's not how cooperation works. So we have said that we see that possibility.
i-522f0581378b72ef-165	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the report, Prime Minister. I would like to address three questions. The first concerns the process of politicisation of the judiciary which is currently under way in Poland. It is not mentioned in the conclusions, but it is possible that it is discussed informally. I would like the Prime Minister to perhaps reflect a little on this and on the European Commission's threat to activate Article 7 on sanctions. The second question is about Pesco. This has been mentioned something, but I think it is very important that we have a continued good and long-term process and quickly come to decisions that provide long-term and good projects that may be started here in the future. Maybe the Prime Minister can reflect on that a little bit. Finally, the third question concerns the climate, which is also mentioned in the conclusions. What opportunities does the Prime Minister see for new legislative decisions to continue the good climate work the EU has begun in 2018?
i-522f0581378b72ef-169	Madam President, I would like With regard to the process in Poland, the investigation has been ongoing for a long time, and the Commission has explained how it sees this. Sweden supports the Commission's view. The situation in Poland is a concern and we support the Commission in its approach to the process. Article 7 also has several steps. We'll see what happens when the big step is taken, if it's taken. We believe, however, that it is very important for the Member States to stand up for the fundamental values of the Union. It must, of course, also be reflected in a free and independent legal process. We share the Commission's view on this issue and support the fact that the Commission is pursuing this process. As far as defence is concerned, Sweden has submitted proposals for projects. These have not yet been approved, but we want to be there and will certainly develop more proposals for projects. We are really going to make sure that we hold on to this. Swedish defence industry should have the same opportunities. After all, we got the wording that makes Swedish defence industry that has owners outside the EU also come into question. From the Swedish side, we intend to continue to ensure that the defence industry is included. In terms of climate, for example, we see the Energy Union ahead of us and that we can get it in place. This would mean targets for renewable energy and how we can hold back on energy consumption – that is one way to do it. Otherwise, I think that we in the European Union need to start thinking about how we should proceed even faster than we have said so far, given the developments we are seeing. I believe that this will be a major debate in the coming spring.
i-522f0581378b72ef-175	Madam President, I would like I received such wise answers from the Prime Minister, so I would just like to wish him – and also the President – Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!
i-522f0581378b72ef-185	Madam President, I would like Yasmine Posio Nilsson has asked me how I see the fact that the EU's development policy has come to focus on stopping people fleeing and whether I have taken any initiative to prevent the EU from using aid to stop people fleeing. She has also asked me if I have taken any initiative to ensure that the EU does not make aid conditional on efforts to stop migration. The goal of Swedish international aid, as established by the Riksdag, is to create the conditions for better living conditions for people living in poverty and under oppression. Sweden's aid is followed up by, among others, the Riksdag, the Swedish National Audit Office and OECD-Dac. The aim of EU aid is also to combat poverty. EU aid should not be used to stop people fleeing or migrating. This has been an important priority for Sweden, and we have also had an impact there. In this way, the EU can focus on key activities and objectives such as reducing poverty, the rights of refugees and migrants, environmental sustainability and climate issues, as well as health, education and social security. The guiding document for the EU's work on migration in development cooperation is the EU Development Cooperation Policy, EU Consensus for Development, adopted on 7 June 2017. This policy states that the overall objective of EU development cooperation continues to be poverty reduction and sets out the direction of how EU development cooperation will contribute to the implementation – implementation – of Agenda 2030. We know that migration has positive effects on the development of both the countries of origin and the recipient countries as well as – most often – the migrants themselves and their families. It is recognised that migration is conducive to economic development, provided that it is coordinated between actors, regulated and safe. It is important to distinguish between voluntary and involuntary irregular migration. In the Swedish policy framework for international development cooperation, which sets out the direction of Swedish aid, the Government states that Sweden will contribute to improving the living situation of people living in poverty by strengthening human rights and livelihoods and helping to address environmental and climate-related threats and reducing the risk of humanitarian crises that can otherwise contribute to involuntary migration. The policy framework also states that Sweden will contribute to creating the conditions for those people who choose to migrate to be able to do so in a safe, orderly and regulated way. Swedish development cooperation will, among other things, contribute to increasing the positive development effects of migration and reduce the negative effects in the countries of origin. Sweden has been a fanbearer for aid effectiveness and integrity – the aid should have local ownership and be based on poor people's needs. The government clearly stands up for rights issues and consistently upholds aid policy principles. Support will go to the least developed countries and to where poverty is most widespread. This also applies within the EU, which is the world's largest donor of development aid. Within the EU and in other processes related to migration related to development, the government is pushing that migration must also be highlighted as a positive and contributing factor to the development of countries. As I have already pointed out, this was done successfully in the negotiations on EU policy, Consensus for Development. Sweden was given the opportunity to include the positive development effects of migration and not just point to its challenges. This perspective is well reflected in the policy, which highlights, among other things, the importance of regular migration as an important aspect and a contributing factor to sustainable economic development and growth. The EU Member States thus commit themselves to a more coordinated, holistic and structured approach to migration in order to maximise synergies between different policy areas. The government's political priorities, such as human rights and protection needs for vulnerable migrants, are highlighted. Referrals and the role of diaspora, its potential and its link to sustainable development are also mentioned. It is important that EU policy is implemented, and the government will follow this closely. The government will also continue to vigorously uphold the principles of aid, both within the EU and in other global processes and fora.
i-522f0581378b72ef-196	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Minister Lövin for his answer. The reason for my interpellation is that this year more than 65 million people are on the run around the world. The UN estimates that over 128 million people are in need of humanitarian aid, which is the highest figure ever. The need for assistance far exceeds donor countries' payments. Our world is marked by deep injustices. The gaps are great between poor and rich countries, between poor and rich people and between women and men. The world's eight richest people own as much as the poorest half of the world's population, and the gaps continue to increase. For every aid crown that goes from the rich world to the poor, more than nine crowns go in the opposite direction in the form of tax and capital flight. 80% of refugees are in poor countries. At the same time, the rich world is doing everything to keep refugees away. The United States has imposed entry bans on certain nationalities and threatens to expel Latin Americans who have lived undocumented in the country. Australia places its reception of refugees on islands outside its borders under miserable conditions. The EU is concluding agreements with poor countries to keep people outside its borders. And just an hour ago, I heard Prime Minister Löfven declare that the EU is strengthening cooperation with the states that we in the Left Party believe are acting as border guards for the EU. At its height, then, the richest continents in the world choose to duck for their responsibility for people on the run. We live in a world where the need for effective aid is enormous and the need for support for people on the run is greater than ever. Nevertheless, the EU chose to change its development policy in order to stop migration instead of fighting poverty and smoothing the gaps. Since autumn 2015, the EU has been working intensively to conclude pacts with a number of countries in Africa and the Middle East to prevent refugees from coming to Europe. The pacts contain promises of aid and trade agreements in exchange for controls on migration. The EU has also established a trust fund of around EUR 3.1 million to finance efforts to halt migration from African countries. Some of the more attentive examples of how the EU has used aid to stop migration are found in Turkey, Afghanistan and Libya. When the EU concluded agreements with Turkey in spring 2016 to stop people from entering the continent, it was with economic promises. When Afghanistan concluded a readmission agreement with the EU in autumn 2016, it was only after the threat that the EU would withdraw aid to the country – according to leaked documents from The Guardian and reports from Amnesty. The European Commission's Directorate-General for Development has concluded that migration is the primary focus of at least 17% of the EU's planned assistance efforts since the beginning of 2016. The fact that Sweden has contributed to the fact that the EU has now entered the positive effects of migration is fine, but will it lead to real action? In October 2016, Minister Lövin participated in SVT's Agenda on the EU's use of aid to stop people fleeing. She said: The important thing is that we ensure that aid is not used for the wrong things. It should not be used to stop migration. Then I wonder: What has the government done to prevent 17% of aid interventions from having migration as their focus, in addition to getting written into policies? How has the government acted when decisions on aid to stop migration have been taken?
i-522f0581378b72ef-205	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that the Government did not mention Libya and the slave trade there in its response to the interpellation, although it was highlighted in the interpellation. But I intend to use my speaking time to talk about Libya. As the Government mentioned in its answer, the goal of Swedish international aid, established by the Riksdag, is to create the conditions for better living conditions for people living in poverty and oppression – with emphasis on oppression. Sweden's humanitarian aid will help to save lives, alleviate distress and maintain human dignity. This is a very important issue. Madam President, I would like What restricts human dignity worse than being enslaved? That Africans are deprived of all dignity, that their humanity is dehumanized and that they are deprived of their freedom and sold as cattle at auction is not news. This terrible reality is part of the Swedish historical heritage, which is never recognized. But today, this interpellation and my intervention are about the slave trade in the present in Libya and not in the 18th century. It is about how Swedish aid is used through the EU to finance activities and agreements that enable capture, enslavement, torture, serious crimes against humanity and the right to asylum. According to the person responsible for Amnesty's work with refugees and migrants in Sweden, Madelaine Seidlitz, European governments are not only aware of the abuses, but also share responsibility for the crimes by helping the Libyan authorities stop refugees and migrants from crossing the Mediterranean. Among other things, the EU has financed the Libyan Coast Guard, which, according to Amnesty, works with criminal gangs and traffickers. ..................................................... In 2017, more than 19 000 people have so far been captured by the Libyan Coast Guard, taken back to Libya and then immediately placed in detention where torture belongs to everyday life. The abuse of the Libyan Coast Guard has long been known. Madam President, I would like When the issue of extending EU support to the Libyan Coast Guard was discussed in June 2016, Foreign Minister Wallström said: However, as we continue to hear the same kind of stories from Libya, we may well wonder whether Mrs Wallström and others in the government think that the right line has been taken in cooperation with Libya. On Wednesday, the Prime Minister said this after a meeting with the Swedish Parliament's EU Council, "No one can guarantee that all activities are done exactly as we would like, but the basic prerequisite is that international law and human rights should apply. ..................................................... We know that this is not the case in Libya, and we have known it for many years. However, the Swedish Government chose only a few months ago to continue to support increased EU support to the Libyan Coast Guard by EUR 46 million with aid money – this despite the knowledge of the abuses committed by the coastguard in Libya. Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and the UN have for some time been reporting on violations and gross abuse, but we continue to support Libya in particular. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister what she and the Government are actually doing to ensure that Swedish aid is not used through the EU to fund activities such as the Libyan Coast Guard, which, according to international organisations, is involved in abuse, slave trade and violations of the right of asylum. It is clear that human rights weigh lightly against the ambitions of stopping refugees from coming to Europe. The fact that the Swedish Government has supported all these decisions is incomprehensible to me.
i-522f0581378b72ef-216	Madam President, I would like Thank you, both the authors of the questions, for your commitment and your important questions! The government takes the information that migrants in Libya are sold as slaves extremely seriously. I don't think anyone is unmoved by the images we've seen from CNN and other data. We can easily see that Libya is what we can almost describe as a fallen state today. It is a state of complete disintegration. Human smugglers and others are taking advantage of the situation by exposing those migrants who are trying to get to Europe in a completely ruthless way. We have received a lot of information on how blackmail and systematic rape are taking place, and migrants are in danger of life when they travel through the Sahara in different ways in order to move on. They have paid a great deal to get to Europe. This is an illegal activity that is extremely outrageous and violates all human rights. The aim of the EU's migration-related efforts in Libya is, and should be, to protect migrants, destroy and discourage human trafficking networks and, above all, to save lives. It is also a matter of creating the conditions for strengthening and training the Libyan authorities that exist and function in human rights, asylum law and the protection of particularly vulnerable migrants. They will also strengthen legal certainty. Sweden has driven the EU to also contribute to international collaboration to investigate the issue of slave trade. We support UN Secretary General Guterres' call for increased international cooperation to prevent and combat trafficking in human beings and prosecute offenders. Sweden has highlighted in the UN Security Council the vulnerable situation of refugees and migrants in Libya and the importance of humanitarian access in detentions where refugees and migrants are held. There are strong forces from many quarters, including within the EU, to want to use aid to prevent migrants coming to Europe. It is important that we distinguish between what is refugees, what is economic migrants and what is involuntary migration. The aim of aid is to combat poverty and oppression, but there is no contradiction in also countering causes of involuntary migration. We do not see any problem in principle in the fact that efforts are directed specifically at the areas where traffickers recruit people to the involuntary migration resulting from repression and poverty. The government has appointed a new envoy for the conflict in Libya. The messenger has recently visited the country, visited the detention centre and held meetings with representatives of Libyan authorities.
i-522f0581378b72ef-226	Madam President, I would like We have not yet seen that, for example, the Libyan coastguard has changed its way of working. So it is not only terrible smugglers but also the authorities who are guilty of these abuses. In the answer, the Government highlights Sweden's and the EU's policies and believes that the focus is on important activities and objectives such as reducing poverty, the rights of refugees and migrants, environmental sustainability and climate issues, health, education and social security. Of course, great progress has been made in combating poverty in the world. Extreme poverty in the world has been reduced by 75% since 1990, eight out of ten children are currently receiving measles vaccines, life expectancy in the world has risen to 70 years and infant mortality has fallen to less than 5%. The Millennium Goals have played a major role in the development of the world. Now we hope that all countries really implement the 2030 Agenda, and it is positive that we are working hard for it. But the real situation shows that we are far from achieving these goals. As I mentioned in my first speech, the European Commission's Directorate-General for Development has concluded that migration is the primary focus of at least 17% of the aid efforts planned by the EU. In the summer of 2017, when the EU adopted the policy that also describes migration in positive terms, the EU increased its support to Libya's coastguard by EUR 46 million – money channelled from one of the EU's aid funds. From Sudan, which is an important partner in the EU's Agenda on Migration and recipients of hundreds of millions of euros of aid, there have been numerous reports of violent treatment of migrants who have tried to cross their borders. According to a delegation from the European Parliament visiting Sudan in December 2016, the country's northern border was controlled by Janjawid, a pro-government militia accused of being involved in the Darfur genocide. There has also been information that projects have been quickly implemented to show rapid results. In addition, in some cases the projects have indicators of success that describe how many migrants have been stopped by the initiative. The Government mentions irregular refugees in its interpellation response. The EU and also representatives of the Swedish Government often call those fleeing the Mediterranean Sea irregular or economic migrants to indicate that they are not real refugees. Their routes are irregular because the EU has closed down all opportunities to get to Europe. Let us not forget that the right to asylum is an individual human right. Everyone has the right to seek asylum. Whether or not the EU stops crossing the Mediterranean has reasons for protection, neither the EU nor the Swedish Government, because their reasons have not been tested. Previously, I quoted the Government's response in SVT's Agenda of October 2016. At that time, the Government also said that Sweden is pushing for the proper use of aid: We sit on various committees that have a clear view of how this money is to be paid out. We have officials who ask questions and constantly point out that we must not take aid money for what is not aid. ..................................................... Is this Sweden's response when serious abuse is committed as a result of EU policy? People are sold as slaves, raped and treated completely inhumane, but be calm: Sweden is on the line, and officials ask questions. In the light of what has happened since October 2016, does the Minister for Development think that this resolute action has worked well?
i-522f0581378b72ef-235	Madam President, I would like The Government replied that the goal of the aid is to counteract oppression. But time and again we see the opposite: aid is used to oppress people. We've seen it in Libya. There are several examples of this. Maxime Ndong is one of 250 migrants who managed to return to Cameroon from Libya and who witnessed the enslavement. He says, "There's a slave trade with black people there." People who want enslaved Africans come to buy them. If you resist, they'll shoot you. ..................................................... Refugees who have been stopped at sea and detained also testify to gunfire and torture. There are several reports that the Coast Guard has shot at refugees trying to cross to Europe. Just as my comrade Yasmine Posio Nilsson mentioned in his speech, Sweden as a major donor is a board member of the EU Emergency Trust Fund for Africa. Sweden is also a member of the UN Security Council, but it was France that called for an emergency meeting to try to do something about the enslavement of Africans in Libya. Madam President, I would like Where did the so-called humanitarian superpower go when serious abuses are committed as a result of EU policy? Where is the so-called feminist government when black women are raped, dehumanized and sold at auctions? It may not be about black women's bodies, because the government shines with its absence. What is Sweden doing as a member of the Security Council and a member of the EU Trust Fund for Africa to prevent, combat and stop the abuses committed against refugees and the enslavement of Africans in Libya and to prosecute those responsible? I want to know.
i-522f0581378b72ef-241	Madam President, I would like These are important issues that are being discussed. The interpellant correctly points out that there are 65 million people on the run in the world. The vast majority, 95% or so, are in the immediate vicinity. A few have the resources, the power and the courage to get to Europe. We are discussing very much them and very little the others, so I welcome the fact that we are discussing the vast majority of the really vulnerable on the ground. It may be added that there are some billion people in the world who are very poor and do not have food for the day. Yasmine Posio Nilsson criticises the fact that EU aid now goes to countries in the Middle East and Africa to a greater extent. It should go to other countries instead, I understand that. I can inform you that significant parts of Swedish aid – tens of billions – have been going to Sweden for a few years, not to what development aid usually goes to in the aid countries. The interpeller is right that the EU has agreed on measures to stem the flow of refugees and economic migrants who want to cross the Mediterranean into the EU. That is why the number of refugees and economic migrants to Sweden has returned to the levels – not low – that prevailed before the great stream in 2015. Seven parties in the Swedish parliament, including the Deputy Prime Minister's party, are behind the EU's closed borders with Asia and Africa. The border between Sweden and Denmark is discussed much more often here in the Swedish parliament than the border between the EU and other continents, although that is where the heaviest decision and stop is, but we usually accept this. The Left Party was the only party to oppose the EU's decision in the Swedish Parliament. The Left Party wants Sweden to return to the much more open migration policy that Sweden had before 2015 and which led to such a large proportion of refugees and economic migrants to the EU choosing to go to Sweden. The Left Party has an economic policy that is mostly aimed at raising taxes and distributing growing contributions, which, in my opinion – if they were to gain power – would quickly lead Sweden into a development that has the direction that exists in, for example, Cuba and Venezuela, where Left Party friends rule. When Yasmine Posio Nilsson and Momodou Jallow now criticise the fact that the EU is increasing its aid to countries in the Middle East and Africa, I would just like to give a background to how populist I think the Left Party is pursuing its policy. If the Left Party, Gud forbid, were to rule Sweden, we would still have very large flows of refugees and economic migrants to Sweden, which would use large resources and undermine Swedish aid on the ground in the aid countries and refugee camps. The Left Party often gets away with its untenable policy and usually pours on asking for more of everything. I just wanted to take this opportunity to demonstrate what I've shown. We know that the Left Party is part of the Red Green Government's government base. Isabella Lövin, as the Green Party so often does on these issues, balances on a very narrow boardwalk. I can ask her if she believes that the EU will open its borders more and steer its aid in the coming years.
i-522f0581378b72ef-251	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions that have been asked! I would like to begin by stating that the right to asylum is absolutely central to this. With regard to the point made, even those who can at first be seen as economic migrants may have grounds for asylum. That is precisely why it is so important that we strengthen and train the authorities in this area in North Africa in legal asylum processes and how to interview and take care of and have an education in the fundamentals of asylum law and human rights. This is part of the EU's efforts in Libya, which, as I said, is a more or less fallen state today. We are strengthening the peace process there in order to ensure that eventually a state can be built that works, because the human rights situation today is absolutely terrible in Libya. I would like to stress that aid should not go to non-aid measures. There is a careful agreement within the OECD Development Assistance Committee (DAC) on what can be financed and what cannot be financed. Here, Sweden is following extremely closely, through its Board work but also through the officials we have in the Operational Committees, how the EU Trust Fund for Africa and other similar mechanisms are used. We have many examples of when Sweden has been involved in changing or even stopping some efforts that we have not seen being aid-fähiga. Since there are other actions financed by other financial resources within the EU that can be linked to this, but when it comes to aid funds, that is what we are looking at. We're having a big impact. We have sent a special Sida employee to Brussels to raise skills when we work on these issues. I find it quite distasteful to link aid efforts with the slave trade and the terrible violations of, not least, women but also men, children and young people that are taking place. It is not the EU's aid efforts that fund this, but it is a question of unscrupulous traffickers and traffickers and of a fallen state with various militias and others acting in a totally unscrupulous manner. We are, of course, pushing for those who carry out these acts to be held accountable and brought to justice, punished and not escaped. We use the means we have to work with the root causes of people being forced to flee involuntarily or to feel that they are forced to flee. It is entirely justified here to work on both job creation and the rule of law and to strengthen human rights and the functioning of the rule of law, for this is the basis for having one's human rights met.
i-522f0581378b72ef-258	Madam President, I would like Now I have only two minutes, and Staffan Danielsson showed up as the old man in the box and said that we are questioning aid to Africa and the Middle East. I can probably say that it would be appropriate for Staffan Danielsson to read our motions rather than to stand and gloat at what we in the Left Party mean in our aid policy. But back to the interpellation itself, I just couldn't help it. Mr Jallow has clearly highlighted much of what is happening in Libya in this debate. This is because Libya is simply the clearest and worst example of the consequences of the EU's use of aid to stop people fleeing. However, this is not the only consequence. Of those seeking asylum in the EU, fewer and fewer, as the Minister mentioned earlier, come from the Horn of Africa, for example from the harsh dictatorship in Eritrea, from the Somalia of war and famine and from Ethiopia of repression and ethnic conflict. This is because the road through Ethiopia, Egypt and Sudan is closed under pressure from the EU. Death in the Mediterranean is often discussed, but death in the Sahara is another consequence of the EU's policy, which unfortunately is less talked about. One reason is probably that we do not know how many people lose their lives during the long and difficult journeys in the desert. But let us hope for everything in the world that the policies that are now lifting up the positive effects of migration and that Sweden has been enrolled will lead to the EU changing direction, although unfortunately we have not seen any of this after the new additions were entered this summer.
i-522f0581378b72ef-263	Madam President, I would like I got a question from Yasmine Posio Nilsson. I was just trying to read your interpellation, and as I understood it, you are criticising in it that the EU is redirecting its aid to countries in the Middle East and Africa. That's what I thought. That is why I concluded that you want EU aid to be directed elsewhere to a greater extent, but, if I have interpreted the interpellation wrong, I am of course sorry.
i-522f0581378b72ef-265	Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that there are many countries in the European Union that would like us to use aid in such a way that we put pressure on the recipient countries to act in different ways in relation to migrants. Sweden's position is that if we withdraw aid, it is extremely counterproductive. If the EU is concerned that there will be a stream of economic migrants to Europe, it is even more important that we have effective aid – that we support economic development, that we support the principles of the rule of law, that we work against oppression, for women's rights, for the opportunities of civil society organisations to operate freely, etc. It is precisely these areas where aid is spent. Thus, it is even more central at a time when we see great concern in many parts of the world. Just as one of the interpellants started with, we have 60 million people on the run today, and we have over 120 million in need of humanitarian aid. It is the biggest humanitarian disaster since the UN was created. That is why aid is needed more than ever. In order for the recipient countries also to have confidence in donors, in this case the EU but also Sweden, one must know that aid has the poor people's perspective as its starting point. There must therefore be local ownership if it is to be effective, and people's own perspective must be central. That is why Sweden is driving this.
i-522f0581378b72ef-268	Madam President, I would like Magnus Oscarsson has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to prevent the threat and crime of militant activists against farmers. In addition, Staffan Danielsson has asked me how I see a mink farmer and his family suffering threats and harassment, whether I believe that the current application of the rules is sufficient and, finally, whether I intend to have the measures to be taken to protect those entrepreneurs who are being harassed. The type of crime referred to by Magnus Oscarsson and Staffan Danielsson is often targeted at individuals, and we must take it very seriously. In a democratic society, no one has the right to destroy or steal someone else's property, or at worst harm other people, solely to achieve political ends. Traders must be able to carry out their activities without being exposed to threats, harassment, vandalism or even more serious crimes. This applies even if such crimes are committed in the event of a demonstration or other expression of opinion. The people who commit these crimes also jeopardise the purposeful work for the strengthening of animal welfare that serious organisations and farmers work for. The discussion about the limits of acceptable animal husbandry is an important debate that we in a democratic society should be able to conduct. Different opinions and opinions should be able to meet without leading to threats, hatred or violations. If the nature of the crime causes it, the Police Authority cooperates with the Swedish Security Service in the work against the crimes committed against, for example, farmers and traders. The actions take place, for example, within the framework of what is known as criminally active domestic extremism. Police action consists of detecting, preventing and preventing crime through the collection and processing of intelligence. When a crime is committed, the police take the necessary measures to investigate the crime and prosecute the guilty. The Government has recently commissioned the Police Authority and the Security Service to strengthen their work against politically motivated crime. The mission is about preventing, aggravating, preventing and managing the crimes committed by extremist groups whose aim is to try to change society through criminal and violent methods. The Swedish Parliament has announced that the Government will prioritise the work against crimes committed by animal rights activists (bet. 2014/ 15:JuU1 p. 44). As a result, the Ministry of Justice has collected and compiled information from the Police Authority on these crimes. The matter was then discussed with the Head of the National Police and the Head of the Security Service.
i-522f0581378b72ef-274	Madam President, I would like I have put this interpellation to Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson because I see a growing problem, where the threats and damage to agricultural businesses by militant vegans and animal rights activists have become more and more common. For several years, the fur industry has been the main target of threats, violence and vandalism. In recent years, activists have increasingly focused on farm animal husbandry. The motive is an ideological view that any use of animals for production is reprehensible, combined with the idea that democracy and the rule of law need not be taken into account in the fight against animal husbandry. It is important that we, as decision-makers, have a realistic picture of the militant activists. This is not just about demonstrations, but about serious crime, including arson, burial and illegal threats. Unfortunately, the problem has escalated, which we can often read about in the media. There is now a need for a clear political rejection of these behaviours. All democratic political parties have a great responsibility here. The threats to livestock farmers make the activities of an important industry for the country more difficult. To a situation that is often under economic pressure, there is concern that the family itself will suffer from the crimes of activists, in a situation where we need to strengthen rural areas and all food production. The fact that farmers and entrepreneurs in rural areas are not at risk of threats, harassment, vandalism or other types of action being able to engage in legal activities is a democratic issue. It is also in line with the recent food strategy. That is why I have asked the question of what measures the Minister and the Government intend to take to prevent this type of crime and whether the Minister is satisfied with what has been done so far on this issue.
i-522f0581378b72ef-278	Madam President, I would like I describe in my interpellation the terror that an individual mink farmer and his family have been subjected to 12 – 13 times in the past few months, day and night, everyday life as a weekend. A leading force among the animal rights activists who are now terrorizing this mink farmer outside Falkenberg shared a link to a Facebook page on a debate forum called Political public debate. The link shows that you want to stop the mink farm outside Falkenberg. This is one of several hate sites on Facebook that targets this entrepreneur and his family. The person who shared this post had as his profile picture a text that said that it is righteous to kill the researchers who work with animal experiments if that is the only way to stop the experiments. This person is the leader among those who terrorize the entrepreneur outside Falkenberg and his family. This person has previously been punished and sentenced to prison. He now has a restraining order, but remains a driving force in, among other things, driving those who trespass on the farm day and night and organizing this that is going on and on. In recent months, the Land Agriculture newspaper has described in a number of articles the harassment and terror, physical and psychological, that the recurring visits of the day that night at the farm and home have meant. Sometimes individual people come, sometimes tens. Sometimes they're masked, sometimes they're not. Sometimes they use loudspeakers, which scares the animals. One Saturday evening in the autumn, some twenty people came to the farm. They honked outside the home, used sirens and bells and demanded that Niclas Pettersson come out. Only the sons were home. They called for help, the intruders refused to leave the yard and handcuffs broke out. Niclas Pettersson had a fist in his face and was sprayed with red paint. The next day, the demonstrators returned and chained up. On Instagram, one of the demonstrators has put out a picture depicting a skeleton dangling in a gallows, and the picture has the text: Niclas, a former mink farmer. On Facebook there are several pages with threats and hatred against the entrepreneur and his business. Facebook doesn't close the pages. How can this be allowed to continue, Minister of Justice? What I describe is extremely serious and is therefore about pure terror against a small business owner in Sweden and his family. The state must react much more strongly to this than has been the case so far. I find it distressing how little the police can actually do to protect entrepreneurs with family. Is it really a country mink farm a public place that protestors repeatedly day and night can stay near to demonstrate? That's what happens all the time. Is it really acceptable in the rule of law that an entrepreneur may be forced to cease his activities because of repeated threats and harassment against this activity and against his family? Is a rural animal house in the vicinity of a home a public place where the right to demonstrate always applies? Should it not be possible, in situations where harassment and demonstrations are taking place against a single small business and a single family in a clearly profound way, both physically and mentally, for the police or courts to establish a temporary free zone of a few kilometres where restraining orders apply to those who wish to demonstrate and try to take the law into their own hands? In the event of an infringement, heavy financial penalties must be imposed, and they need to be much stronger than they are today, in my opinion. I do not think it is enough, as Morgan Johansson says in her reply, for the police to try to do more within the existing framework. The funds need to be bigger. I hope the Minister will investigate this.
i-522f0581378b72ef-287	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that harassment of individuals in this way, in all contexts, is totally unacceptable. It's obvious. There's nothing, I think, to discuss between us in that part. We do not accept crimes of this nature. If you commit such crimes, that is to say that you harass individuals in this way, you should of course be caged in. That's it. As far as the Falkenberg case is concerned, a preliminary investigation is currently under way. The preliminary investigation, conducted by the police, concerns issues of home peace offences, illegal threats, assaults and violations of the law on a restraining order. It is clear that the police must be able to investigate this and try to put an end to this activity. At the same time, I would also like to say that there is preliminary investigation secrecy, and I do not intend to anticipate the preliminary investigation. I'm just stating that it's going on and that the police are active in these cases. This type of attack, with regard to this particular type of motive, has in recent years been quite infrequent, but we have seen an upswing in recent times, perhaps in the last year. And it must be taken very seriously whether it is common or not. It is therefore important that the police investigate these crimes and that the perpetrators can be prosecuted. We're strengthening the police now. We go in with another SEK 2 billion from next year. It's the biggest bet ever, or at least on the last 20 years, as we do. It will contribute both to police intervention activities and to investigative activities. I can also say that for the first time since 2009, the police are now beginning to report further investigations. There is an increase in the number of investigations carried out. There are over 4 000 more so far this year than the corresponding period last year. We have also noted, as I say in my interpellation response, that politically motivated crime has tended to increase widely. That is precisely why we have given the police and the Security Service a special mission to strengthen the work and to prevent, prevent and complicate both left – and right-wing extremist crime. The mission we've given to the police covers both of those parts. It shall be reported to the Government on 15 May 2018. I have seen in the media in these cases that there is information that Mr Säpo is no longer engaged in this. That's wrong. It's the other way around, I'd say. The Security Service has always been concerned with this, and it is doing so more and more after the increase we have seen recently. If we are to deal with this in the future, there are no shortcuts. It is about more money for the police with the special mission that means that we make greater demands on the part of the government on what to do and that we have the opportunity to prosecute those who commit this kind of crime. I would also like to add that, in addition to the law enforcement elements in this, we will extend the possibility of camera surveillance and camera surveillance in, for example, such locations. We will come up with a legislative proposal on this in the spring, and I also believe that it may be important in these contexts.
i-522f0581378b72ef-296	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Another major concern that has recently been noticed is violence and threats against hunters. We can read and hear in the media, most recently from Södertörn, that hunters who have protective hunting may cancel hunting for wolf because activists threaten. They shoot the license plates on the hunters' cars and more. Hunters who have a protection hunt or a licence hunt no longer dare to hunt wolves, for they feel a real threat to life and property. Now we also hear that hunters are being threatened. Searchers are hired if, for example, wild boar, moose, wolf, deer or other game gets hit. Now they are threatened, their cars are destroyed and they are threatened with damage and secret phone calls. What is happening is alarming and very serious. It must now be time for hunters, who always receive their assignments from the police, to have the same status as security guards, that is, legal protection in the event of violence and threats to officials. My questions to the minister are: Does the minister and government see the problem that hunters who have license hunting and hunting on wolves are afraid to hunt anymore? And will the Minister of Justice work to ensure that hunters get the same status as security guards and thus legal protection?
i-522f0581378b72ef-299	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Now it's about a single, or a few, mink breeders. Tomorrow it may be about other farmers who produce, for example, eggs, pigs or milk. It is also about hunters, as Magnus Oscarsson talks about, who, for example, kill injured animals or hunt according to the rules that apply. That is why it is important to investigate, on the basis of the concrete and very serious example that I set out and which is ongoing, how the police and the judiciary can be given stronger powers when individual small businesses and individual families – people of flesh and blood – are affected by the fact that militant activists, who have previously been punished for serious crimes, are demonstrating and trespassing extremely close to workplaces and homes. Imagine the horror that people come week after week where they live without stopping it! I think this is worth investigating urgently. One must be able to stop this and protect the entrepreneurs with families involved in the body. My view is that police funds are not enough, and I hope that the Minister will consider an investigation. If the police's mission makes it possible for the police to propose prohibition zones, more severe financial penalties and so on, I hope that it will be done and that it can come up that way. Sweden is a country that should be governed by law and where it is ultimately the parliament that determines how, for example, livestock farming can be conducted. It is not activists outside the framework of the law who will decide what we will produce and work with in Sweden. How does the Minister view the serious situation of the individual family, of the sons and of Niclas Pettersson, who live in terror? Obviously, the police cannot prevent the fact that, with reference to the freedom of demonstration, people are going to the farm, the animal stalls and the home time and time again. I believe that a protection zone needs to be established. I don't see any other solution. I respect the fact that there are differences of opinion on the rearing of, for example, mink for fur production, and whether or not to ban it. In a democracy, however, we are discussing the issue here in Parliament and in the streets and squares of the citizens. And the question is decided in the Riksdag. If you want to reach a different decision, you can pursue opinion with a view to obtaining a majority, by legal means and by not going too far. You go too far today. The fact that an individual, who is punished for serious violent crimes, is allowed to organise and hold this is totally unacceptable, in order to use the words of both the Prime Minister and Morgan Johansson. We agree on freedom of demonstration, but should this also apply close to an individual home and a company? I welcome what Morgan Johansson said about camera surveillance. I think Morgan Johansson has taken a lot of steps in the right direction during his years. He may not have been so active in running it when he was in opposition, but now it is other times for both government and opposition. It is absolutely essential to make it easier to obtain permission for camera surveillance. I welcome those proposals. It should be an effective means of deterring people from getting there. Now they mask themselves – the discussion about masking possibilities and so on we also have. I've wanted to pay attention to this serious matter. I thank the Minister for taking matters seriously and asking him to consider the situation in Falkenberg and to consider that the police need stronger means than they do today.
i-522f0581378b72ef-310	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it almost sounds like the police don't have any tools in those situations. They have. For example, a demonstration that interferes with public order can be rejected from the scene. And when it comes to crimes, such as trespassing on other people's property, the police are to intervene directly, and they have exactly the tools that they need. On the wider issue of the right of demonstration, I feel that the Centre Party is behind the current regulatory framework. I have not seen that they have wanted to bring about a major change in this respect. We are going to review the law of order, which concerns the right of demonstration. At the same time, however, I would like to guard and warn against the risks involved in making such changes. I see obvious risks because it strikes very broad and in the wrong way. In addition to camera surveillance, where, as I said, we are on the way forward, I would like to point out another thing that we have just done. It will be easier to put a anklet on those who violate a restraining order. You can simply do an electronic monitoring of those people. It may also have bearings in these cases. We have just gone to the Law Council with such a proposal. When it comes to the question from Magnus Oscarsson about security guards and hunters, I will be happy to know more about how the hunters are experiencing the situation right now. Of course, if you threaten and harass a hunter, you are covered by exactly the same criminal law as everyone else. But I'll be happy to review how the police handle those cases right now and get to the bottom of them. It is clear that social tasks, such as the protection hunt, must be able to be carried out. In conclusion, we need more resources for police operations to tackle these problems and other problems. We are also going in with 2 billion more from next year. There is also a need to place greater emphasis on combating politically motivated crime. And the mission that we have left to the police and the Security Service deals with both parts, both left-wing extreme crime and right-wing extreme crime. As far as the individual case in Falkenberg is concerned, I think it is easy for most of us to try to understand the vulnerable situation. It's a matter of ensuring that the police do what you're supposed to do. And I'm convinced that you work as well as you can. Preliminary investigation is ongoing on home peace offences, illegal threats, assaults and violations of the law on a restraining order. I will follow the case closely.
i-522f0581378b72ef-318	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We are talking about threats to rural businesses and hunters. Many people get threats online. There are farmers who are threatened by Facebook, e-mails or letters today. I myself have seen and read letters sent home to farmers. It's terrible reading. It's so bad, I don't even want to read one here. There is talk of raping and killing their families and more. Unfortunately, farmers are often told by the police that they are closing the preliminary investigations, because there is not enough evidence. As my colleague Staffan Danielsson has mentioned, the mink farmer in Falkenberg was treated in a terrible way. I've read about how to take pictures and threaten with more. Then the owner calls the police, and when the police arrive at the scene, the activists show signs. It seems that they will then be allowed to proceed without any action at all. It's terrible. Many entrepreneurs feel powerless. Now they may be looking at this debate and wondering what to do and what the Minister is doing about it. In the 90s, a special group in Umeå took care of these things. The question is whether it is now time to draw up a similar group. They are often the same people. So that would be important. Is the minister planning to set up a task force that can get hold of these things in a good way? I would also like to thank the Minister: you have mentioned various things that make it feel like you are taking it seriously. It's important that you do it. I would like to conclude by wishing the President and the Minister a really merry Christmas.
i-522f0581378b72ef-326	Mr President and Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Of course the police will intervene against crimes, Morgan Johansson. But twelve times, day and night, every day and weekend, these 5 - 20 demonstrators have returned to the same dwelling, same farm and the same mink farm. They're masked, they're screaming and they've been placarding. The Centre Party and I are, of course, behind the demonstration right in Sweden. What I am asking about, and Morgan Johansson has not answered, is whether the demonstration right today includes that every other week, day or night, you can come to the same small company, the same family and the same home and terrorize. I can't find another word. That's what's going on. And the police haven't been able to stop that, Morgan Johansson. Is there no need for new props, such as the possibility of setting up a protection zone of a few kilometres in court when such situations arise? Then no one can get there, and if they do, they will have to pay heavy fines. The fines must be raised sharply. We also have criminal penalties. Is today's money enough? I don't see it. There's got to be something else. As far as the right to demonstrate is concerned, we are of course in agreement. But how is that to be interpreted? Where are the limits? That's what I want to discuss. Then let me ask you something else. Social media, Facebook and other things, is a wealth, but it is also terrible when they are abused. Is it really acceptable, Morgan Johansson, with the hatred and threats in the form of attacks on Facebook pages, which are not removed but remain?
i-522f0581378b72ef-332	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I note that threats on Facebook are also illegal threats. If you can connect a person to the person who addresses the threat, you can prosecute that person. You can't get away just because you're saying the threat on the Internet, on the contrary. You can be held responsible for that too. In addition, there is a bill dealing with online hatred. The definition of illegal threats has been extended in the bill. So you are not penalized for doing something online. It is the same criminal law that applies there as anywhere else in society. No, you have no right to come to anyone and terrorize or threaten. The police have the possibility to reject that person or persons from the scene in these circumstances. The freedom of demonstration is inscribed in the form of government. Statutes on freedom of demonstration are set out in Chapter 2. Section 1. There is freedom to organise demonstrations in public places. The concept of public space is considered to have a very broad meaning. If you are going to make some changes there, it is a constitutional discussion that can be conducted. Instead of lifting the freedom of demonstration, it is better to go on the individuals concerned. I mentioned the ban on contact and the possibility of putting a anklet on those who violate the ban. I also mentioned camera surveillance, where we are now making proposals. Once again, the Security Service, on behalf of the government, also has strong surveillance of the left-wing extremist groups, and there is reason to intensify it further. Finally, of course, I would like to wish both Magnus Oscarsson and Staffan Danielsson a really merry Christmas and a well-deserved rest.
i-522f0581378b72ef-339	Mr President, I would like to Gunilla Nordgren has asked me what measures I intend to take to plan and stimulate the construction of new shelters and what measures I intend to take to support the establishment of shelters for new construction economically. Sweden has a deteriorating international situation with security policy consequences. Sweden will build a modern total defence with the ability to face armed attacks. Civil defence planning has therefore been resumed. There is an urgent need to strengthen the capacity of security authorities and other civil defence actors. In order to create the conditions for these actors, the Government has proposed in the Budget Bill that permanent funds be added, which for the remainder of the current defence-oriented period, 2018 – 2020, represents a total of SEK 1.3 billion. In this context, the Government has stressed the importance of initiating contingency planning in municipalities and county councils. In the report referred to in Gunilla Nordgren's question, the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency has presented a government mission to produce an overall assessment of the ability of population protection to meet the demands of increased preparedness and war and how it can be adapted to modern conditions. Currently there are some 7 million shelters in the country, which are divided into 65 000 shelters with varying protection capacities. According to MSB, it is necessary to develop additional data to assess the need for new production of shelters. In order to be able to assess and assess the need for various measures in the field of civil defence, it is necessary to develop well-developed evidence. I am closely following ongoing efforts to strengthen civil defence planning. The issue of society's shelter needs is part of that work. If necessary, the government will initiate further measures to strengthen the capacity of population protection in case of increased preparedness.
i-522f0581378b72ef-343	Mr President, I would like to Lars-Arne Staxäng has asked me what initiatives or measures I intend to take to combat crimes against the elderly. International gangs committing theft and crimes against the elderly are a problem that the government takes very seriously. Sweden needs to become a less attractive target for international crime networks so that organised thefts are reduced. In order to combat crime, effective investigations as well as prevention and cooperation between authorities and countries are needed. The Police Authority has carried out several important efforts in recent years to improve the fight against this type of crime. For example, a national model for crime coordination was introduced in 2016, which increases the police's ability to demonstrate links between different crimes and identify serial crime. In the Western Police Region, the Circa Group has been introduced. It has a national responsibility for the coordination of serial offences against the elderly and disabled. The group's mission is to have an overall perspective of the crime area. The National Fraud Centre of the Swedish Police Authority, NBC, has in recent years worked closely with the National Pensioners' Association and the Swedish Pensioners' Association to try to prevent fraud against the elderly. NBC has, among other things, created a national preventive strategy and a training package to address the problem. In the coming years, the training package will be updated with new knowledge. In addition, on behalf of the Prime Minister, I am working on developing a package of measures against international theft leagues.
i-522f0581378b72ef-348	Mr President, I would like to I would first of all like to thank you for your answer to this urgent question. Of course, it is always regrettable when people are victims of crime, but it is not possible to get away from the fact that it becomes even more despicable when defenceless people who cannot be protected are exposed. Or, as the press speaker for the police in Region Väst Stefan Gustafsson puts it, this is a disgusting crime that you can feel all repulsive about, precisely because the perpetrators go on people who often cannot defend themselves. ..................................................... Then who is doing this kind of crime? What has come to light so far is that it is largely foreign gangs that are ravaging, sometimes over rather large areas to avoid getting caught. Unlike most other crimes, women are often responsible for the execution itself. You often work in couples, and sometimes you say that you are from the police, health care, the property owner or some other authority person to get into the elderly. It is therefore a good thing that the government takes this very seriously. It is necessary to tune the pelvis and give clear signals to the people and leagues behind it. They must have severe punishment and life-long expulsion from Sweden, if you ask me. These gangs act periodically, causing crime to change up and down when you read the statistics. Right now this autumn, and not least in December, it has been very criminally active. All parts of Sweden have been exposed, including Norrland. This is precisely why it is important to work in national groups that are in contact with such international organisations as Interpol and others. If you notice that some gang has become criminally active, it is important to curb this as early as possible.
i-522f0581378b72ef-355	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Crime and crime must be prevented and combated. There are minor crimes, and there are very serious crimes. There are crimes that are particularly serious because they target fragile and unprotected persons. Old-age crime is often theft or robbery. Sometimes the victim does not notice until afterwards that he has been robbed. Sometimes you get threatened and beaten. It is particularly upsetting when elderly people are sought out by those who have specialized in claiming to be relatives or care workers or who simply threaten to commit theft. Of course, in order to prevent these terrible crimes, which leave the elderly and the elderly in so much anxiety and pain, it is important that the police have a clear picture of who commits them so that the perpetrators can be prosecuted. Citizens too need to have a clear picture. Only then can prevention and information be used to best prevent the possibility of committing these crimes. In a later interpellation debate with the Minister of Justice, I will discuss the importance of relevant crime statistics and relevant analyses of criminal developments in Sweden. However, I am also taking part in this debate because the issues are obviously touching. There are currently no public statistics on crime and nationality. As one of the very few countries in the world, Sweden, through the Crime Prevention Council, Brå, does not analyse the development of crime among Swedes and foreign-born. Citizens, members of parliament and the media are therefore not given access to public statistics or public analyses of this. At the same time, the police certainly know quite well who is primarily committing these crimes against the elderly and also who is responsible for the terrible robberies of road pirates, who are spreading insecurity along our roads. In some rare interview, representatives of the police and the Circa unit have been quite frank, but as I said, it is rare. In this interpellation answer, the Minister of Justice chooses to lighten the veil and immediately goes into his answer that international theft leagues are behind it. Thank you for that clarity. The Minister of Justice has also commented on the growing number of housing breaches in Sweden and even then relieved the veil and said that half is committed by international theft leagues. The Minister has exemplified Romania and Lithuania. It is good that the reality of our open liberal democracy is presented to the citizens as it is. I would like to thank Morgan Johansson for his clarity. The question, however, is why this should have to leak out in a bit, as the police or government thinks it is appropriate. Why is it not available in public statistics and analyses? Let's get back to that. Clearly, the police must devote more resources to preventing and preventing the increasing number of crimes against our elderly, who are often victims in their homes. Clearly, the government and parliament must devote more resources to the police – more than is already under way. And clearly, targeted information efforts must be made so that the elderly can best protect themselves from being robbed in their homes or on the street. Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng has made an important interpellation, and I have shown some important pieces of the puzzle in order for the state to be better able to prevent and prevent these terrible crimes than it is today. For example, open and relevant crime statistics and open analyses can be carried out.
i-522f0581378b72ef-365	Mr President, I would like to I think we can all agree that breaking into the elderly and exploiting the vulnerable situation in which many people find themselves is a particularly appalling crime. This must, of course, be vigorously combated. Let's look in the statistics at how common this is. The statistics define as a specific group offences against those who, due to age or disability, have reduced resilience. We can follow this year from year to year. In the case of theft, about 5,000 such cases occurred in 2016. It was actually a peak in 2015 when the number was 5 600, but after that there was a decline. Otherwise, there are about 5,000 cases per year. We have seen a clear rise in fraud in the last ten years against this particular group. The same applies to the robberies, where there is a clear rise. Even for them it became a clear peak in 2015, and then it became a dip down in 2016. They are far fewer in number because it is a grosser crime. What is to be done about this? First of all, it is about ensuring that the police can work more effectively. I mention the Circa Group, and Lars ‐ Arne Staxäng has information directly from the West where this group is located. The group is doing a very good job. Every day, the group reviews the violations of disabled people reported throughout the country. So every day you sit down to look at this to identify the perpetrators, of course, and to identify patterns. Then you can see if, for example, theft leagues are out in a certain area. The group has also linked specific prosecution support to itself, which is also important. In this way, the criminal investigations are conducted. Then I mentioned prevention. It is about cooperation with PRO and SPF, for example, and it is more about training on how to protect oneself against crimes like these. This is also important. Furthermore, there is also the greater coordination of offences that the police must engage in. Besides, we're going in with a lot of money to the police in the coming years. Next year it's about 2 billion. I have never been unclear or tried to hide what kind of perpetrator this is often about. Many of these crimes, as well as burglaries overall, are committed by international theft leagues. That is why we have received a special assignment from the Prime Minister to work on this. Romania and Lithuania are two countries with which we need to improve our cooperation. I met representatives of Romania as late as last week. They offered police support to Sweden so that they could simply send police officers here to help with the investigations we are conducting here. I raised the same point with Lithuania, which involved both police work and one more thing. Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng said the punishment should be tougher. Yes, it should be for this. But I also think that they should serve their sentences in the home countries. This is something that we raise with both Romania and Lithuania, but also with other countries that may be affected. We also need to find better ways of preventing the export of stolen goods from the country. Here we will come back with measures. It can be observed that the break-ins in South Sweden have been reduced by almost 30% since we introduced border controls. I also believe that this is important; it is simply being discouraged from committing this type of crime. I therefore believe that the key lies in better police investigations, better cooperation with the countries concerned and better prevention.
i-522f0581378b72ef-379	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Minister Johansson which more authorities and other community carriers and organisations one could cooperate with in order to get a greater exchange when trying to clear up these crimes. I don't think the police alone can always do this. The next question is whether consideration is being given to developing better and safer – and above all more uniform – IDs for both public authorities and approved professionals. It must be uniform so that the public can recognise them and feel safe. Today, someone comes with a general ID and people don't know whether it's true or not. That way you can get into the houses. I am fairly convinced that it is very important to cooperate more so that suspicious cars and people also come to the police's attention. After I put my interpellation to Minister Johansson, many people have been exposed. If you check this you can see that it has happened in most parts of Sweden, not least in the west. The Government referred both to the special group and to the police. They have been frustrated that much has happened. This has also happened in Halland, Skåne, eastern Sweden and Jämtland, among others, and it has taken place in December 2017. As I said before, this is going up and down in the statistics. In the latter part of 2016 there was a decline. Then there has been a strong rise in autumn this year. Are there any intensifications in the area? I listened to the idea that you could serve your sentences in your home country, which is an excellent proposal. I certainly think it should be a very aggravating circumstance to expose a sick, old or defenceless person to crime. In the same way, we are discussing rape legislation. This is an aggravating circumstance. Execution of stolen goods is also an important issue. I think we need to have a tightening up on this. Customs must be given more opportunities to control cars and cargoes that leave the country and not just those that come in. I asked Anders Ygeman an interpellation about this in the spring of 2017. I think this is one of the really important pieces. It should not just be to come to Sweden and pick up a lot of things and then be able to go right out and maybe home with this. There are, of course, several measures that need to be taken.
i-522f0581378b72ef-387	Mr President, I would like to Morgan Johansson has never tried to hide what the perpetrators are, and that is a good thing. International theft leagues account for much of the crime in Sweden. We know that. What I'm critical of is that Morgan Johansson, the Government and the Crime Prevention Council consider themselves able to assess crime today, 2017, based on statistics and analyses from 1994, 2001 and earlier. It makes no sense, but we will come back to that. But do the public and citizens have a good picture of this, as the police and Morgan Johansson know? I'm not sure about that. Who are committing old-age crimes and road-pirate robbery? It's relevant information, I think. If you want to sneak up on this for the best reasons, I mean it's counterproductive. The public draws their own conclusions, and rumours are spreading. It is better to account for the reality as it is, as Morgan Johansson has done today. In an open democracy, the reality must be accounted for and discussed. My question to Morgan Johansson is simply: Why, Morgan Jo Hansson, for the Crime Prevention Council and Statistics Sweden is not any statistics where crime and nationality are linked together? Sweden is perhaps the only Western democracy where it is that way.
i-522f0581378b72ef-390	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say to Staffan Danielsson that we will have that discussion in the next interpellation debate. I say we take it then. But the short answer is that we have never, on the part of the government, banned Brå from producing any analyses, as was done in 2005. You're welcome to do that if you want to. But, as I said, we will take that discussion in the next interpellation debate. Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng is asking me about more government agencies. I think this is often about organized crime. As with all organised crime, there must be interaction between different actors. The police are an important part, but it can also be about such things as the Swedish Economic Crime Authority and the Swedish Enforcement Authority. When you go on individuals who are active in these networks you can use Försäkringskassan. For a few years now, there has been much stronger cooperation between authorities specifically against organised crime, and this collaboration has been successful in many ways. Everyone knows what they did in the Södertälje case to go to the organized crime that was there. In Malmö they are now doing exactly the same. They collaborate very closely with the municipality around different environments that are characterized by major crime, such as Norra Grängesbergsgatan, which is now being visited. Now I differ a little from the subject, but the common thing is how to go about organised crime, and that is done through collaboration between many different authorities. The issue of legitimacy was raised. We appointed Lars-Erik-Erik Lövdén as special investigator of offences against benefit systems. He made a long list of suggestions this spring. One of the proposals was that we should have a better identity system. We have very many people who can issue IDs, which also means that they can look very different. This leads to uncertainty as to what kind of identity documents it really is. During the autumn, we have set up an investigation to review whether this can be limited in such a way that there will be greater certainty about what it is really about. That's where we're going. As far as international theft leagues are concerned, we are currently carrying out a special mission that I have received from the Prime Minister. We are, of course, looking at the coordination of crime, how investigations are carried out and whether the police's work on this can be improved. But we also have bilateral contacts. I mentioned Lithuania and Romania. I shall mention another country, and that is Georgia, where there are active crime networks. They focus not only on Sweden but also on, for example, Denmark, Germany and Norway. It is also not just a question of crimes against the elderly, even if it is part of it. It's about breaking and entering villas and summer cottages. It's about theft of boat engines. Sometimes you even manage to get forest machines with you. It's pretty serious crime in the sense that you steal too large a host. We look at how the police work and how we can work better with those countries. These countries also want to strike hard at this kind of crime. They don't like it at all from their land. I have met with great constructiveness from those countries when I raised the issue. Finally, I'll say something about the penalty check. We tightened the penalties for the heavy robbery on 1 July, so it's already done. Then, when assessing these cases, the courts will also take into account whether the offence has been committed against a person in a particularly vulnerable situation. I think that the regulatory framework is good.
i-522f0581378b72ef-395	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for the honest answers. Not least the last post breathed a lot of emotion and frustration against those who perform these crimes. I felt that, and I say that with great satisfaction. I believe that one of the solutions, which was previously discussed by Minister Johansson, is cooperation with the nations where the gangs of theft are located. It could be Lithuania, Romania or other countries. It could be Europe in general. There is a need for better cooperation with their police, customs and judicial systems, perhaps even financial agreements on prisons or other things. There is also a need for cooperation where information is sent back and forth. Often these people are known in the home countries, and perhaps they have committed the same crimes there. That's why it's often a better explanation if you can do it that way. Thank you for the debate. I am very pleased that the issue has been put on the agenda, because we must curb this. Merry Christmas and Happy New Year!
i-522f0581378b72ef-398	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank you for a good debate. I do not think we have any disagreements as to what is to be done in essence. We have to have enough resources for the police, so that they can do the criminal investigations. We must ensure that even better methods are developed. I have highlighted what is being done within the framework of the Circa Group, where one looks specifically at the crimes committed against, among others, the elderly. I also believe very strongly in cooperation with other countries. I met the Romanian representative 14 days ago at a Council meeting in Brussels. He said: We are prepared to send police personnel to Stockholm to help in preliminary investigations when they may be Romanian perpetrators. It was his initiative. Just as Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng says, they know what types of groupings are there. He also said: We are prepared to give Swedish police access to our records, so that you can see exactly what type of individuals and crime networks it is about. Romania has not only done this to Sweden, but it is a number of Western countries that they are keen to cooperate very closely with in this regard. As I said, they do not like what is happening at all, but also want to get away from it. In addition to this, as has been said, in the case of Lithuania, it is also a matter of where to serve your sentences. We currently have about fifty Lithuanian citizens in Swedish prisons. I don't think they should be sitting there. I think they should be in Lithuanian prisons instead. Then we must also conclude a bilateral agreement with Lithuania in that part. Finally, I would like to wish Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng a really merry Christmas and a well-deserved leave in the coming days and weeks.
i-522f0581378b72ef-402	Mr President, I would like to Staffan Danielsson has asked me a number of questions about crime among Swedes and foreign-born people and the need for new statistics. The Government does not prohibit Brå or other authorities from carrying out studies or reporting statistics on provenance and crime. The two studies published by Brå were also carried out on its own initiative. It is also Brå, as the statistical authority, that decides which variables should be included in the criminal statistics. Brå does not report information on provenance. Similarly, the statistics do not include other variables related to overrepresentation in crime, such as education level or income. An important reason for this is that Brå estimates that such data are more suitable in research studies than in statistics as they require deeper analyses to be useful. The Government considers that there is no reason to commission Brå to do another study on provenance and crime as the studies the agency has previously done. We already know, from Brå's studies and from other studies, that people with foreign background are over-represented in crime. This applies both as perpetrators and victims. We also know that much of the over-representation in crime is due to differences in growing-up conditions in Sweden. This skewed distribution of crime is not something that the government ignores or darkens. On the contrary, the government has taken and continues to take a large number of measures both to reduce segregation and to combat crime. Knowledge is important. And there is a great need for knowledge in the whole area of criminal policy. For example, the government has recently commissioned Brå to analyse the causes of the increases in sexual offences and to study how the judiciary handles rape crimes. The Government has also commissioned Brå to study the culture of silence and abuse of justice and to make suggestions on how it could be countered.
i-522f0581378b72ef-408	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have explained in detail in my interpellation the background to my criticism that Sweden as one of the very few countries, perhaps the only democratic country in the world, since 1994 does not report statistics on crime and serious crime based on the nationality of the perpetrator. Morgan Johansson uses the expression descent, which is fuzzy. What I have asked is nationality and perhaps country of birth in analyses, as Brå reported in 1994 and 2005. Why are I and the citizens not trusted to take part in this? Equally strong is my criticism that Brå has not done any analysis of crime among Swedes and immigrants since the period 1997-2001, despite the fact that migration to Sweden has since reached a million people or more, while at the same time individual serious crime types have increased significantly. Last year I asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service for statistics on crime linked to nationality and so on. No, you couldn't get that out. This would not be open to citizens, members of parliament or the media, according to Brå. On the other hand, crime researchers may be authorised to access these data. Apparently the police have some tasks that are sometimes presented, most recently last week by the Minister of Justice himself who suddenly very precisely stated that over half of the growing housing offences in Sweden are carried out by theft leagues from Eastern Europe. It's open and good. Svenska Dagbladet wrote in a fact box at the same time that Brå was not mentioned as a source as Brå does not consider this to be relevant. It is, the Minister of Justice, absolutely astounding. In 2005, Brå made a completely different assessment: a knowledge-based picture of Swedish and immigrant crime is better than one based on conjecture and personal perceptions. The lack of up-to-date facts about crime among foreign-borns and their children facilitates the creation and consolidation of myths. – – – A correct picture of the extent and development of the problems should instead be the best basis for analysing the conditions and improving the conditions for all residents to function well in Sweden. ..................................................... That's what Brå said in 2005. I fully agree. Seeking dark reality is counterproductive. Citizens often get the impression, through rumours and speculations in social media and elsewhere, that almost all crimes are committed by people other than Swedes, which of course is not true. The Minister of Justice's response is cautious and passive. He places all responsibility at Brå and intends to do nothing to ensure that relevant statistics are kept so that citizens, members of parliament and the media, and not only ministers, police officers and researchers, can access it. The Government has also said that statistics and analyses that previously existed "would not add knowledge with the potential to improve Swedish society". Here's the government in deep water. Only statistics that provide knowledge that can improve society would therefore be allowed to be carried out. How do you know? Perhaps the GDR and other dictatorships felt to know this. Statistics should describe reality. The better we in our open democracy know the reality, the better we can of course analyse it and devise measures to improve it. In other areas of society and in other countries, this is self-evident, but not in the case of crime in Sweden. I believe that the Minister of Justice is making a mistake when he does not want to give Mr Brå a mandate to describe reality.
i-522f0581378b72ef-419	Mr President, I would like to The intervention of Staffan Danielsson is so urgent that I too will rise in the debate on this issue. I've been thinking for a long time why Brå hasn't done the research and if you've chosen to stand outside. One of Brå's most important tasks is to be able to show scientific evidence in this type of statistics. It is very important that impartial statistics are produced that we can rely on and then take into account in political decisions but also in the public debate. It has always been that when the truth is not allowed to come out, the lie is often a much worse option. It often has major perverse effects in the way that people overdo it. Sometimes things that should come out may not come out at all. The worst part is that groups may get a stamp on social media and so on. This gives xenophobic forces proper nutrition for what they are trying to bring forward. Perhaps it is even the case that xenophobic parties have grown because we do not have scientific evidence on these issues. I was just going to go up in this speech in this debate. You can delete the second post. I support Staffan Danielsson's request that we have scientific evidence on these issues. I think it is good for Sweden as a whole and good for the general debate.
i-522f0581378b72ef-423	Mr President, I would like to It's a myth to claim that we've forbidden Brå to do something that I was into earlier. Of course we don't. As I said in my reply, the two previous studies were carried out at Brå's initiative, and the latest one is from 2005. If Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng and Staffan Danielsson would have liked to have had a change to this, one wonders why you did nothing during the bourgeois period. Eight years passed without this question, what I know, being pushed at all. Rather than wanting knowledge, it is about pushing the political debate in a particular direction. I've been a politician for a long time. I know that sometimes you can play games with politics, try to widen conflicts and engage in things that increase tension rather than hold things together. Staffan Danielsson mixes things up when he ties it to foreign theft leagues. In the next breath, he's talking about immigrants. Foreign theft leagues are not immigrants. These are people who come to Sweden with the sole purpose of committing crimes here, and then they go out again. Among other things, do not breathe together the two groups! In the first debate we discussed a lot how we can access this type of activity. But it's not about immigration. It is a question of groups wanting to blame immigrants for everything. That's how it is. You don't want to talk about 20-25% of all people working in health care, for example, being immigrants. You don't want to talk about that, you just want to talk about possible crimes that immigrants commit. You also don't want to talk about and pay attention to the crimes that Swedes commit. It blows up the crimes that immigrants commit and tries to reduce the crimes that Swedes commit, although we have a long list of names that we know are linked to serious crime: Tony Olsson, Tommy Zethraeus, Laserman John Ausonius, Hagaman Niklas Lindgren, Englamannen Anders Eklund and so on. The type of crime committed by Swedes does not want to talk about, but only about the crimes that immigrants commit. Political rhetoric is being heard at the moment, which in every case always wants to suspect immigrants. I find that kind of rhetoric very difficult. However, the picture is clear. We know what applies and what it is: people with foreign background are over-represented in terms of crime. However, this over-representation is greatly reduced when the socio-economic factors are taken into account. The risk of committing crimes simply increases, regardless of origin, if you grow up with parents without a job and with poor finances and if you do not pass school. In addition, the risk of being a victim of crime increases; this should be borne in mind. It doesn't matter to me if you're black or white, if you commit crimes, of course you should be locked up. That is why police resources are needed to pass the investigations and to combat the crimes. But we also need to focus on reducing the social gaps that are often the breeding ground for this type of crime. It is about youth unemployment, which has gone from being record high to being record low. It is about spending money on school in the vulnerable areas and so on. If Staffan Danielsson really wants to reduce crime, I think that he should instead help to reduce social inequalities.
i-522f0581378b72ef-432	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Of course we're going to reduce the social divides, but it could take a few decades, Morgan Johansson. In the meantime, we must fight the crimes. I am amazed at the disregard of the Minister of Justice and Brå and the refusal to document reality through statistics indicating the nationality of criminals. This is done as a matter of course in statistics in other areas of society, and it is done in other countries as well. The government has not banned Brå – that's right – but the Government accepts Brå's inaction. As far as the word "immigrants" is concerned, Brå himself has said that what was investigated in 2005 was crime among Swedes and immigrants. So that's the word Brå uses. As for the alliance period, I started running this in August 2016. I want to talk about all the crimes, whoever commits them. It's obvious. I find it sad that Morgan Johansson is trying to mix the cards away. Morgan Johansson refers to Brå's view that data on nationality are more suitable for research studies, as they require deeper analysis to be useful. Forgive me, but what kind of gibberish is this? Statistics should describe reality. Then research and practice can analyse reality deeper. It is serious to darken reality so that only some trusted ones have access to it, unlike those who are not trusted, such as citizens, MPs and the media. In addition, the absence of relevant statistics, as Mr Brå so well described in his 2005 report, makes the spread of rumours and misstatements spread and magnified. It's counterproductive. I would strongly urge Mr Brå and the Minister of Justice to ensure as soon as possible that Mr Brå and SCB return to carrying out and publishing relevant statistics in the area of crime. The responsibility to be assumed if this does not happen is significant. The reality is being darkened for the citizens, and it helps to spread and enlarge misconceptions. And it reserves only those who are allowed to take part in reality the opportunity to analyse it. I support the view that both Mr Brå and the Minister for Justice are close to misconduct when the relevant information is withheld from the citizens. It is just as serious, I think, when Brå no longer analyses the development of crime with bearings in Swedes and foreign born even though Sweden has had a very large migration from many different countries and continents since 2001. There is a great deal of agreement today that the violence of honour that is unfortunately taking place must be fought with all its might. Unfortunately, group rapes sometimes occur, and according to recent data, the police do not even keep statistics on them, Morgan Johansson. The Minister of Justice has now made it clear that more than half of the housing offences in Sweden are committed by theft gangs from Eastern Europe. The fact that the state chooses not to publish statistics, other than in part when it suits, cannot be accepted. It impairs the ability to know the reality, and it makes it difficult for those who want to analyze. Of course, therefore, the measures to prevent and prevent crime will not be as good as they should and must be. Therefore, Morgan Johansson, I believe that your and Brå's naive attitude in this area means that fewer crimes can be prevented and prevented. I repeat: Morgan Johansson and Brå's naive and irresponsible attitude means that fewer crimes can be prevented and prevented. Morgan Johansson speaks of descent. As I said, I have not used this word. What's that word? I want statistics on the development of crime in Sweden where the nationality of those who commit the crimes can be stated, as in all other countries. In analyses, the country of birth may also be indicated. This was done by Brå in 1996 and 2005. I do not understand why Mr Brå and the government may think that the reality of the 20th century gives us the basis for reality today.
i-522f0581378b72ef-442	Mr President, I would like to The latest Brå report is from 2005. This type of analysis comes from different research institutes almost every year. They all show the same thing: there is an over-representation of those who have a foreign background in terms of crime statistics. However, taking social factors into account, this over-representation is greatly reduced. The problem for Staffan Danielsson is that he mixes different groups in the same sweep. In one breath, he talks about theft leagues. It has nothing to do with immigration, but it is individuals who come here to Sweden just to commit crimes and then take home stolen goods as soon as possible. So it has nothing to do with immigration. In the next breath, he talks about asylum seekers. Crime among this group is very low. There are few cases of crime among asylum seekers, but it is therefore a group that Staffan Danielsson is talking about. Then he talks about immigrants in general. If I understand Staffan Danielsson correctly, he means that it can be a group that also includes people who have come to Sweden but who have lived here for decades, perhaps even since they were children. Is it this group he's going to analyze? After all, I have been a politician for so long that I see what Staffan Danielsson is doing here. It is not the government that is involved in suspecting or something like that, but it does so with the kind of rhetoric that is devoted precisely to suspecting groups in different ways. I think what is important is that we make sure that we produce information and statistics that will enable us to go ahead and sort out what kind of measures we should proceed with. As for theft leagues, police data show that between 30 and 40 percent of all burglaries are committed by theft leagues. Then we will get to grips with it and make sure that we focus on the countries concerned: Romania, Lithuania and perhaps Georgia. In this way, we use that information. Staffan Danielsson says that he too wants to reduce social gaps but that it will take several decades. No, it doesn't have to do that at all. It is all about the policy that you are prepared to pursue. If you participate in a policy where mass unemployment re-enters Sweden and where you widen the economic divides between the poor and the rich, of course, the social divides will also increase overall, and thus the risk of, for example, being drawn into different types of gang crime. If you have the level of ambition that it will take several decades to narrow the social divides, I understand why the bourgeoisie always ends up as wrong as you do. It will not take many decades to narrow the gaps. In fact, we have already done so during this period. The difference in distribution between the poor and the rich seems to be narrowing over these years. Nor does it take decades to deal with crime of various kinds. It is only about what kind of tools and what kind of resources we are prepared to deploy, for example in the vulnerable neighbourhoods. Focus on what kind of tools we need to fight crime! I think that is better than making themselves a tool for those who so much want to spread myths and prejudices about other groups. I don't think that's going to lead to anything good at all.
i-522f0581378b72ef-449	Mr President, I would like to The social divides must be combated, in Europe and in the world. They're very big, Morgan Johansson. Unfortunately, from a world perspective, it is decades at stake. I am the first to be very happy if there are good conditions in Romania in five to ten years' time. We will do this as soon as possible. Then we can put that debate aside. Thefts have nothing to do with immigration, says Morgan Johansson. Is that king's word? Surely there are links when it comes to how to immigrant to Sweden, how to go to Sweden and back and whether to stay in Sweden or not. I think it's connected to overseas anyway. Have I talked about asylum seekers? I do not know that I have done so in these contexts. I do not think Morgan Johansson is right there. Then it's about crime. I would therefore like us to maintain statistics on crime and nationality. That's what I've been saying. Morgan hasn't told me why it shouldn't be possible. Such statistics are kept in all other areas of society. It takes place in all other countries. Why is it not open data? I believe that it is now counterproductive and that it is a breeding ground for speculation and rumours on Facebook and in other social media. It is better to establish reality. I believe that we are slowing down and preventing xenophobia if we do the same thing in other countries. So I think it is the opposite. Then there is the crime among Swedes and immigrants and how it develops when migration is very large. I have quoted the Crime Prevention Council's preface in the 2005 report. Ask the questions to Brå instead! The report dates from 2005, but the statistics on which it is based date from 1997-2001. That's 16 years ago, Morgan Johansson.
i-522f0581378b72ef-454	Mr President, I would like to Again: the report dates from 2005, but it was not the last time that any report on this particular issue was produced – quite the opposite. Research reports come every year on this particular theme. They show, as I have done several times, that it is an over-representation of people with foreign background in the crime statistics – it is not only in Sweden, but it is the same pattern all over the world. But when you clear it from the socio-economic factors, it immediately decreases. That is the conclusion that matters, I think. If you want to tackle this in the longer term, there are to a large extent two things. One is, of course, about combating the crimes themselves by ensuring that police resources are available so that the most active individuals can be caged in. That's one thing. The second is about what social conditions basically look like. I was into this earlier. I said that there is actually a tendency that the social divides in Sweden have narrowed over the years with our policy. In that case, I think that's a good thing. You don't have to wait decades for this. It's just about the level of ambition you have at the bottom. Then there is the nature of the theft leagues. These are people who are citizens of, for example, Romania or Lithuania. They're sitting there planning their crimes. Then, for example, they go to Germany, Denmark or Sweden and commit crimes there. Then they take out stolen goods. That's what I'm talking about. This group should not be confused with immigrants in general or with asylum seekers. You'll end up completely in the wrong place. If you were to look at the citizenship statistics of those who commit these crimes, it is clear that you would primarily see this type of group. I think the conclusion is that we need to go to the social divides.
i-522f0581378b72ef-459	Mr President, I would like to Gunilla Nordgren has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the production of Swedish biogas does not suffer further reductions and closures and what measures I intend to take to enable Swedish biogas producers to compete with their foreign competitors both in the short and long term on equal terms. Karin Svensson Smith has asked me whether the government will in the near future propose measures that prevent Swedish biogas production from being competed out by biogas imports with production subsidies. Svensson Smith has also asked me how the government intends to comply with the EU Direkt on alternative fuels, how gas vehicles will be handled in the design of environmental zone regulations and whether the government will facilitate the conversion of the truck fleet and intends to co-finance demonstration projects for biogas in trucks and buses. Both exchanges concern the framework conditions of biogas, and I have therefore chosen to provide a comprehensive response. First of all, I would like to say that I share the concerns of the interpellants about how a number of Swedish biogas producers are adversely affected in the way we see today. The situation is a direct consequence of countries choosing both different levels of aid and different types of support schemes. As I promised in previous debates, I have been in contact with my Danish ministerial colleague Lars Christian Lilleholt and explained the problems caused by biogas imports. There have also been discussions at official level between Denmark and Sweden. However, it is important to remember that Denmark's state aid is approved by the European Union. We have therefore also drawn attention to the issue of dual support in biogas trade in the ongoing negotiations on the Renewables Directive. As previously promised, the government has analysed the situation and looked at various short-term solutions. One solution that is often put forward in the debate is that Sweden should also switch to production aid. However, we cannot simply abandon the current tax exemption instruments without the risk of creating new problems for producers and users. I am convinced that the interpellants agree with me on the importance of the solution providing long-term rules for investors. The Government therefore intends shortly to set up a study to map how biogas's benefits as a resource are best used and to make suggestions on how biogas can be given competitive conditions and long-term rules of play. The problem with the import of dual-support biogas will of course play an important role in this investigation. Karin Svensson Smith has asked a number of questions concerning, among other things, heavy-duty gas vehicles. These are questions that mainly fall under other ministers, but I will give you an overall answer. As far as the EU directive on alternative fuels is concerned, the government's current efforts are assessed as achieving the objectives of the directive. As far as environmental zones are concerned, the preparation is ongoing at the Government Office, and of course the views of the Climate Municipalities and other actors will be taken into account in this work. The preparation is also ongoing of the Government's initiative to co-finance the construction of demonstration projects – the so-called vehicle billion. The government has also in other ways improved the possibilities of changing the truck fleet and promoting the production of biogas, not least through the continued tax exemption for biogas.
i-522f0581378b72ef-467	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I note that in his answer to my question, the Minister agrees with me and with us that the situation of Swedish biogas production is vulnerable, unfortunate and worrying. So far, so good. We had a debate on this in May. We had quite a deal at the time. But now the answer says that you have had a date, that there have been some discussions at the official level and that you will soon have an investigation. In the near future, it was also said in May. The question is: what is in the short term, and what is in the long term? Biogas is an enormous amount more than a fuel. Biogas production is one of the pillars of a sustainable society. It's about how we use our own assets. It is an important part of the work to achieve the goal of fossil freedom and reduction of emissions. We have the potential to increase biogas production. It gives us access to flexible and secure energy. In addition, it generates nutritious digestion residues containing valuable phosphorus, and this is approved as biofertiliser. So there are many added values. My question was: are we prepared to discuss with Denmark? I mean in the short term and in the long term. In the long term, it is about keeping the rules even after 2020, allowing intermediate crops and that debate. But as I said, it was after 2020. The problem is that plants are now being put in a moth bag. There is no reinvestment in existing plants. A large facility in Skåne has been transferred into Finnish ownership. This sort of doesn't last long. I sit in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, and we have many discussions about increasing the collection of food waste. But if we can't produce biogas from it, because it comes from Denmark, you'll have to burn up the food waste. This is connected. It is a big question, and I call for what can be done in the short term. One could imagine a circular premium, because biogas is of course of double use. Firstly, we use our own products, and secondly we get biofertilizers that are approved for organic farming. That, I mean, is really circular economy. It is essential that we have this consistent description. Tax exemption has long been an important instrument, but since the gas imported receives the same tax relief, Denmark, which is close to me, has a double relief, both at the level of production and in the form of the tax exemption that we have at the level of consumption. We fully agree on the problem. In Germany there are also subsidies, which makes the market for used biogas cars very difficult. It is difficult to buy a used biogas car in Sweden, because they go to Germany. This has such a big and wide impact, and I become a little a little too when it is still said that the government is going to set up an investigation in the near future, because that was said in May as well. This is also a question of civilian preparedness, and it is something that is very close to me. The defence committee came today with its first draft. I haven't had time to read it, just what said about civilian preparedness. At a blockade, it is important that we can produce our own fuel.
i-522f0581378b72ef-478	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is out of step with the rest of Europe when it comes to biogas. Imported gas with production aid in the home country thus receives tax exemption when sold in Sweden, i.e. double aid, while Swedish produced biogas only receives tax exemption and no production aid. We know the result: In every new procurement, the Swedish biogas loses its contracts. This is very serious, because it is spent somewhere between 6 and 7 billion of state, local and private funds to create a cycle. This is also a solution that has a strong popular base, and I think that we must endeavour to make climate policy more understandable and accepted among peoples in general. The Swedes are among the people in the world who are most concerned about climate change and who are also prepared to do something. Sorting out food waste that then becomes fuel in the car and replaces climate-affected fossil fuels is easy to understand, and this has increased the basis for what municipalities do. Therefore, it is now very important that we do not pull the carpet away from this because there is no provision for the biogas produced in the local works. I have every respect for any initiative the government has taken. If you read in the latest budget, you can see that there are not few. I also have great hopes for the investigation to which Ibrahim Baylan refers in his response, but the risk is that the facilities intended to be rescued will not exist when the investigation is complete. It's an urgent question. I also have every respect for the Council of State's talks with its Danish colleague, but if Denmark has received this EUR 700 million aid a year, notified and approved by the European Union, and it goes to agriculture, I do not think it is very likely that they will refrain from doing so. In principle, it is about Danish agriculture, which is one of their basic industries. So I do not think that this is the way forward, but the only way that I can judge is that we are doing something similar, but that we are then extending methane gas reduction aid so that perhaps there will be a circular premium covering all organic waste with the exception of food residues in the public sector. After all, it is not very reasonable for us to call on people to reduce food waste and then pay them not to do so. Otherwise, there is, and will always be, organic waste arising from wastewater treatment plants, food industries and agriculture. It's even a triple benefit, Gunilla Nordgren : You reduce methane gas emissions, and methane is climate impact, you produce a renewable fuel and you produce biofertilizer. That is why I wonder whether Ibrahim Baylan is prepared to consider the possibility of extending methane gas reduction aid and making it a circular premium including other waste, in order to prevent the closure of what is such a wise investment in producing biogas from organic waste.
i-522f0581378b72ef-487	Mr President, I would like to Last week, I failed cooking. I'd make a hot dog Stroganoff for my kids. I usually do that off and on, but this time it was a little failed because it took a little too long before the cream went in. It was not so good, so the children's desire to eat the food was unfortunately less than usual. In such situations, it still feels good to know that those food residues not only go to waste but that they go to the local biogas plant, which transforms it into something that is valuable both for our society economically as well as for the environment and the climate, namely biogas that can replace fossil sources. We have become accustomed to this in many parts of the country. That's a good thing. So far, we all agree. What has happened, Mr President, is that since Denmark had its production aid approved, as the interpellants have mentioned, some commercial operators have come to the conclusion that they can import that production-aided gas into Sweden, where we have consumption aid, and thus benefit from both systems in order to improve their competitiveness. That was never meant to be. In the talks I have had with Denmark – and I can confirm that this is a problem there too, because the idea has never been that the Danish State should continue to subsidise Swedish consumers in this way – we have gone through and looked at whether one can prevent this in any way. It has been shown both in Sweden and in Denmark that it is very difficult, because we have an EU regulatory framework that says that cross-border trade must not be prevented. We have also looked at whether there are any other ways to screw the system, but that too has proved to be very difficult legally. What has the government done since we last stood here, in addition to the talks and dialogue we have had with the Danes to try to find a solution to the problem? Like Karin Svensson Smith, we have put forward a number of proposals, not least in the budget that the Riksdag has just adopted, which is about further supporting Swedish biogas production. This is, for example, about the sharp increase in climate change, and we know that biogas production is perhaps the single largest part that receives support. We have strengthened the investment in biogas from manure by extending the increased budget for the methane gas replacement that Karin Svensson Smith is talking about. I think the proposal she makes is interesting, so we should look at it further. We have also previously increased the level of aid from 20 to 40 kilowatt hours and increased the budget in that effort. With a number of measures together with the industries, we have tried to create infrastructure to further develop both vehicles and biogas production. Mr President, I would like to We must understand that it is Sweden that stands out because we are alone in having a consumption subsidy. In almost all other European countries there is production aid. That is why I believe that we will have to move towards aid for production and that this is the solution to this problem. Why isn't it faster? Well, that's because these are complicated systems. They also need to be approved by the European Union before they can be introduced, and it is important that we do it right. If we move on and quickly do something that is either not approved or turns out to have completely different consequences, we have not done biogas production a service, but then we have done it a great disservice. I don't want to contribute to that.
i-522f0581378b72ef-500	Mr President, I would like to Karin Svensson Smith and I agree. It's not always us, but in this case we are. Maybe it depends on where we come from. First of all, there is the question of extending methane gas reduction aid. It will be a kind of double premium because the aid will have a double effect. It is good if you can look at the question. Apart from creating jobs in rural areas, we must remember that if there is a blockade, the Danes will not export any gas to us. Then it is important to have your own gas so that the food can be transported from the country to the big city. That is where many people will eat, but it is we who live in the country who produce the food. The Minister has responded with everything that has been done, but it does not help – so far. The situation is urgent. We are talking about the destruction of capital when the large plants are put in a grind bag or they do not even reinvest, as is the case in other plants outside Malmö. Everybody's waiting. Everyone wants long-term rules. That's right and right. But something must happen in the short term too. I hope it's included. If you are going to negotiate with the EU and more, the facilities will be closed down – at least in my part of the country. Then billions of dollars will go to waste. In addition to creating jobs and a circular economy, support is also a matter of preparedness. We can have oil stocks and everything possible, but if Sweden is exposed to a blockade – it is more likely than there will be bombers over the country – the country will be knocked out and there is no electricity, no energy, no fuel. If we in Sweden can produce our own fuel so that things can be transported from place A to place B, and also bring in the food, then those transports can be handled. I would like to ask the Minister to include my idea of double-cycle premium and Karin Svensson Smiths's idea of increased methane reduction aid. Use needs to be broadened. There are heavy trucks, which so far find it difficult to walk on batteries, and they are also not entirely environmentally friendly to produce. We have to wait a while for the batteries for heavy trucks to work really well. It is also possible to have a gas bus premium. Now there has been a lot of electric cars and that bonus – the malus system gives such and so. Then it deteriorates a little bit for the hybrids. Not everyone who lives in the country can drive electric cars. So far, they don't go that far. Then it would have been excellent to have hybrids that can also run on biofuels. This increases the demand for biogas. I fully agree with the long-term issues. But in the short term, I ask you to try to find other ways to support biogas so that it can continue to be produced. We must also fight to ensure that the derogation until 2020 can continue. There are discussions on intermediate crops. The EU does not understand that intermediate crops bind nitrogen, and they are not intended for human consumption. There are lots of such questions. The short term is important in order not to miss out on government billion investment in the future.
i-522f0581378b72ef-510	Mr President, I would like to I was, of course, very pleased when I heard Minister Baylan say that he is prepared to consider extending the methane reduction aid to become a circular premium and that it should also include other organic waste. I look forward to that very much, and that is very justified. These are the most local investments. Farmers and municipalities have together built up the situation in Jordberga. Unfortunately, we must be pleased that the Finnish State has purchased the five largest facilities via Gasum. It is not certain that they would have existed at all if the Finnish State had not. Let me turn to another theme. The Baylan Government said in its reply that several of the things I ask for are areas that are the responsibility of other ministers. Yes, that's right. But Ibrahim Baylan is the co-ordination minister, and the government is responsible for the entire policy. I will continue to ask how to link climate, trade and industry in a wise way. Every time I hear Stefan Löfven or Isabella Lövin talk about Sweden becoming one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries, I become extremely proud. Our climate ambition in the Swedish parliament, to reduce domestic climate impact by 70 per cent by 2030, is the most radical in the world. I am so pleased with this. But there is no contradiction in the fact that climate ambitions and industry and trade go hand in hand. Now large Swedish vehicle manufacturers in Sweden happen to be good at manufacturing buses and trucks. Some of them are the second largest producers in world production. If we can have Sweden as a kind of tester for how vehicles use biogas instead of fossil fuels, there is no contradiction. On the contrary, it is a step that shows that Sweden can become a permanent world exhibition for the transition to fossil freedom. Now I think that the major vehicle manufacturers themselves do not push the government so much. If you are the second biggest in selling trucks, you may not be so dependent on sales in Sweden. That's not how many trucks are sold here. But it is sad if what has developed in Södertälje or in Gothenburg cannot be shown in Sweden. Then chains would be created, Gothenburg– Kalmar, to have LNG hubs, liquid biogas, so that the excellent gas buses and trucks are used. It is educational to look at how to reduce oil dependence, which is so incredibly dominant. People are not very happy to see where the oil comes from that we use in Sweden. We have certainly reduced dependence on the Middle East, but we have replaced it with dependence on Putin, which accounts for 60% of the oil used here. I don't feel very safe about it. I've been looking a little bit into the investigation that was left to the Secretary of Defense this morning about civil defence. I think there is an improvement potential in this respect. A lot can be done here. I therefore wonder whether Minister Baylan would consider discussing with the Minister for Trade and Industry that the vehicle billions can be used to create a test site for gas trucks and possibly gas buses.
i-522f0581378b72ef-518	Mr President, I would like to I thank Members for a good discussion. In general, we agree on the development of biogas. The question is what short-term solutions exist that also pass a state aid test. It is, as you know, not a simple question all the time. Regardless of how we do, we need to find a new support system in the long term, and so we are now preparing directives in the Government Office to develop them. At the end of the day, we can't get away with the problems. Denmark has got its system approved, and it will be placed on top of the measures we take regardless of what we do. There we agree, and we shall continue to pursue that line. Karin Svensson Smith raises a number of interesting questions. Without emphasising either my efforts or those of the government, I believe that the most important thing we do for emissions from the transport sector is the change of fuel that Parliament has supported. These are the high ambitions referred to by Karin Svensson Smith. We know that this type of reduction obligation has a major impact on both the land and technology development. We know that because it has been tried elsewhere. The Swedish green certification system is such an example of the electricity side, which always meets its goals and has also contributed to cost-effectiveness in a way that I do not think otherwise would have happened. Are we prepared to make further efforts? Yes, we are. Some of them we've heard about here. But I'm not gonna stand here and promise that exactly this and this is what we're gonna do. This is not usually done as a minister for a very simple reason: before you get there, you have to look at whether it is valid, both financially and legally. But when it comes to the will to try to find a solution to these problems, there are no differences of opinion. You just have to find the right technology and make it wise – and sustainable in the long term. Karin Svensson Smith also raises a number of other issues. Yes, it is true that I am the coordinator. It is also true that several of the issues she is raising at the moment are being addressed in the Government Office. We are dividing in the Government Office about exactly how to post this. Let's talk about demonstration facilities. Together with my colleague Mikael Damberg, I have met representatives of the industries, and my impression is that they are very interested. They want to be part of the drive for development. Yes, Karin Svensson Smith, you are absolutely right – Sweden is not the world's largest market. But our willingness to try innovations and new methods makes Sweden interesting as a demonstration site. It also makes us interesting for the world's second largest truck manufacturer in this case, Volvo, but also for Scania, which is also very forward. I look forward to continuing that work, and I am prepared to look at how we can pragmatically support this development and show that it is perfectly possible to live a good life, a free life, and do it in a way that does not destroy the environment and does not destroy the climate. I think that is perhaps the greatest effort we can make as a nation. If we do so well, it will also benefit job growth and growth in our country, so this is a very positive and offensive area. I'm really looking forward to us working on it together.
i-522f0581378b72ef-526	Mr President, I would like to It is a good thing that we agree, and I understand that the Minister cannot promise us to do exactly this. I think we all realize that. But that's not what I – or Karin, I think – wanted. This is in the long term and in the short term, and it is in the short term that it is urgent. Perhaps we can look at other ways, such as gas bus premiums, in other words things that do not have to take such a terrible amount of time to negotiate clearly with the EU and change from consumption aid to production aid. It's a process– I understand that too – and it's good if the government is working on it. The Minister was also aware that he is the co-ordinating minister. I also dance around – I have written a motion that I think ends up in the Defence Committee about this with civil preparedness and the whole idea. That we should have our own fuel to transport ourselves and possibly food is important. So I do not think that this is a problem; the Minister must take it with him to his colleagues. I guess they'll sit together sometime and discuss things. It is also important to build an infrastructure with pumps and so on. I am a little saddened by the lowering of the premium for hybrids, which therefore runs on gas and electricity. Now it's just electricity, and not everyone lives in big cities. Some people have a bit of a long drive, and then it is better that they run on biogas. I would love to do that myself. I am pleased that this debate took place, and I look forward to the Minister taking this along and working hard to resolve this problem – in the short and long term. I would like to take this opportunity to wish the Minister and the President a Merry Christmas.
i-522f0581378b72ef-533	Mr President, I would like to I share the view of Minister Baylan that the change of fuel is probably the most important thing when it comes to changing fuel, because it assumes that the trucks and cars that already exist are retained. It's 12 years to 2030. We cannot and do not want everyone to change vehicles at that time. The problem is that today is a very large part of the renewables that are going into petrol and diesel imports d. We need to increase investment in using forest raw materials as biofuels. However, there are both temporal and biological limitations on how much forest can become fuel. That is precisely why biogas is needed alongside the fuel change to make the whole equation with minus 70 per cent by 2030 go together. I wonder if Ibrahim Baylan is interested in looking a little more at the EU infrastructure directive. The whole chain of fuel, distribution and vehicles must be connected. If it doesn't, the buyers will naturally opt out of vehicles they don't know they can drive across the country. I see openings in the civil defence investigation that was left to the Secretary of Defense today. If we're going to get through a lockdown, we need to be able to supply the whole country with energy. Perhaps you can look at it together with the EU infrastructure directive so that not only people in Skåne and Västra Götaland can use biogas, but it should be available throughout the country. I thank you for the very constructive debate and for the constructive answers given by the Government, and I wish everyone a Merry Christmas.
i-522f0581378b72ef-538	Mr President, I would like to I thank the interpellants for a good discussion on an issue that is urgent and on which I am pleased that we basically have a fair consensus. We know that the very unfortunate development in southern Sweden with the combination of two support schemes that were not intended to be combined now affects domestic biogas production. We are trying to find solutions to this – solutions that hold, I will say. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that our challenges from a security of supply perspective, which both interpellants address, but also from a climate perspective, are significant. But I'm convinced that they're perfectly possible to solve, and maybe the best thing about it is that maybe it's possible to do it in a way that can handle both of these perspectives. A good example of this is the way we got rid of oil in the heating sector in Sweden. There, residues from Swedish forests and household waste have become extremely central. I believe that there is much more to be done in this area too, and the government is doing a great deal. Much of the infrastructure that we have established during this parliamentary term will affect and play a role. That doesn't mean there's no more to do. It does, because this is a big challenge. Although Sweden today is the country in the European Union that has the highest share of renewable fuels in the transport sector, we are still far too low, I think. That is why I suggest that I believe that the change of fuel will play an enormous role in this context. I am convinced that with sustainable forestry and a living paper and pulp industry, there will be residual products so that the biofuels that it requires can be delivered. Although we have great challenges and problems, I feel confident. I wish the Members and Mr President-in-Office a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-522f0581378b72ef-545	Mr President, I would like to Lena Asplund has asked me whether the biomedical analysts have been forgotten in the directives for the inquiry into specialist nursing training and certain other health and medical training courses or whether I do not think that a specialist training is needed for biomedical analysts. The Government has commissioned a special investigator to review the specialist nursing training. The purpose of the review is for the future education to meet the changing needs of health care and provide students with the knowledge and skills needed to work independently as a specialist nurse. The investigator shall also assess the need for a revised degree description for midwifery and assess the needs of a specialist X-ray nurse's degree. The training courses and professional groups covered by the investigation's mandate are close to each other and have therefore been assessed as capable of being handled within the same mission. Only three health professions have specialist qualifications, namely doctors, dentists and specialist nurses. In the report on Competence and Responsibility, the 2009 inquiry considered that there are no conditions for introducing a protected professional title or any other form of jurisdictional regulation for additional professions. There are more ways for a professional group to gain deeper specialisation skills than just by regulating the profession. Universities and higher education institutions have a wide-ranging freedom to offer courses within the framework of their degree certificates based on students' demand and labour market needs. There are currently several universities that offer courses in biomedicine at advanced level, as well as advanced education for physiotherapists, to name a few examples. If employers consider that there is a need for specialised knowledge to carry out certain tasks, they may set up specific services and set specific skills requirements for such services. Swedish healthcare should be world-class. A prerequisite for the success of this mission is a well-functioning supply of skills. It is the responsibility of health care employers to ensure a functioning organisation and staffing within healthcare, but the government should contribute to this by providing a high-quality education that responds to the needs of healthcare. Close cooperation between universities and health professionals is needed to meet the needs of healthcare professionals with high quality education. I welcome a dialogue with stakeholders on how the university should meet the skills needs of healthcare.
i-522f0581378b72ef-551	Mr President, I would like to I must thank the Government for its answer, but unfortunately the Government does not answer the question of establishing a nationally regulated specialist training for biomedical analysts. This is not a competence inquiry, as the profession of biomedical analyst is already regulated by the licence introduced in 2006. My question is about a regulated specialist training, similar to that of nurses. The Government further states in its reply that training of occupational groups that are close to each other is deemed to be able to be handled within the same mission. Then it seems that the licensed biomedical analysts are forgotten. Or is the knowledge of this profession not greater so as not to understand how close it is to the others? The Government further states that it is the health care employers who are responsible for ensuring a functioning organisation and staffing within the healthcare sector, but that the state can contribute to this by providing a high-quality education that meets the needs of healthcare. Employers in health care require specialist training in biomedical laboratory science for biomedical analysts. That is a great need. A well-functioning provision of skills in healthcare requires that there are clear career paths for all professions, which is not always the case today, including biomedical analysts. The withdrawals from the programme are large, which has several explanations. One is that one comes to realize that there are no career paths. Programme managers at the various universities that provide the biomedical analyst programme have already, in cooperation, developed a proposal for a structure for a specialist education. Specialist education must be at advanced level and be quality assured by regulation in the Higher Education Ordinance. From a patient safety perspective, local solutions are not an option, nor are unregulated courses at the university. Sweden needs equal care where it can be ensured that the staff have the expertise required by the highly specialised care, as well as tomorrow's care. I know that there has been a meeting between the Health Association, the Institute of Biomedical Laboratory Science and the State Secretary at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Education. At that meeting, the Health Care Association, among other things, pointed out that the issue of specialist training is well established with business representatives and higher education institutions. Therefore, I wonder again whether the Government has understood the difference, which is not clear from the answer I have received.
i-522f0581378b72ef-558	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lena Asplund! I think I have understood what the question is: whether there should be a regulated specialist training for biomedical analysts. The answer is that the assessment we make based on previous investigations is that it is not needed in this situation but that it should be offered when there is a need in healthcare. Since the early 1990s, universities and higher education institutions are primarily responsible for both supply and content, based on the degree descriptions that we have decided on with regard to higher education. This should match labour market needs and students' demand. We see, after the follow-up by Lars Haikola, that in the field of health care and in the field of teachers it has not been fully achieved in a good way. Therefore, a lot of work is going on, and the investigation concerning the competence of specialist nurses is an important contribution to making this work work better and correspond to the mission. Should we include this mission in that investigation, it would be considerably extended and delayed. We see it as incredibly important that we can make the necessary changes as soon as possible in order to meet the very great need for specialist nurses in healthcare today. It is about us being able to offer world-class healthcare. Having said that, the work on the entire supply of skills in healthcare should be able to continue. The Government has also taken the initiative and commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare and the University Chancellor's Office to make better forecasts, including regional ones, so that the principals, together with universities and higher education institutions, will have a good basis for being able to dimension the courses correctly and offer the right types of further education and specialist education. Such specialist trainings already exist for biomedical analysts. For example, at Örebro University there is a programme called Methods in Medical Diagnostics, which is aimed at biomedical analysts who want to further educate and specialize. The programme comprises 120 credits and ends with a Master's degree. The programme can also be completed after 60 credits and leads to a master's degree. It may be that more universities and higher education institutions need to be able to offer this and that employers need to make it clear whether they need this competence. This should then be done within the framework of the educational cooperation that universities and higher education institutions should have with future employers or employers, in this case the principals of health care. This is a work that can continue without the need for further missions. If we want to change this so that this too needs to be regulated in a special investigation and not in the context of it.
i-522f0581378b72ef-566	Mr President, I would like to I find it sad that the biomedical analysts were forgotten, because I feel that it is: they were forgotten when this investigation was set up. It is true that this education is available at Örebro University and has come about on the initiative of biomedical science and care. But it's only there. More is needed and more places are needed. The number of qualified biomedical analysts of active age today is about 10,400. Of these, approximately 10,000 are employed, of which 80 per cent work in health care. Seven out of ten biomedical analysts are over 45, so retirements can be expected to be quite large. Up to 2035, access is estimated to have fallen by about 15 percent compared to today. At the same time, it is expected that the demand for trained biomedical analysts will increase by 10 percent over the same period, and it goes without saying that there will be a serious shortage in the long term. According to Arbetsförmedlingen's report Where are the jobs? for the first half of 2018, biomedical analysts have a deficiency index of 4,53 out of 5, 00. So it's a shortage job. Biomedical analysts are also a profession where one can not really go out and work fully one day after the education; it requires quite a long experience, no matter what industry you work in. Because there are many different things you can do-- I'll get to it. A lack of qualified biomedical analysts could also result in employers hiring other, unlicensed professions, such as medical biologists or biomedicineists. This could constitute a risk to patient safety. Such a person has a narrower knowledge and not the same whole of the analytical process as a biomedical analyst. Since 70% of decisions in healthcare are based on diagnostics, this is a patient safety issue. What does a biomedical analyst do? Yes, it depends a little on which industry you work: clinical chemistry, blood center, pathology or clinical physiology. In clinical chemistry, there is a lot of analysis of blood. Diseases are simply diagnosed. The blood center provides blood transfusions, plasma and platelets, i.e. platelets. In pathology, this is a shortage profession today. There, biomedical analysts are needed to diagnose various cancers. In clinical physiology, spirometry is also performed, ECG, EEG and other important examinations are performed. Without this profession, we would have major health problems. We already have problems in healthcare with too few educated people. The Government says that this is important to review when it comes to nurses, but I would like to say that it is just as important to review this issue when it comes to biomedical analysts. Without them and the various laboratories, health care would not work. It is a cog wheel in Swedish health care.
i-522f0581378b72ef-575	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lena Asplund! I share the view that this is an important occupational group, just like all occupational groups in health care. We depend on them, and they depend on us to get health care that meets the needs and expectations that we have. I want to make it clear that this is not at all a professional group that has somehow been forgotten. On the contrary, it is an important profession. In the government, we made an assessment of what the investigation would involve, and we did not want it to be a very long investigation because we are in a crisis situation when it comes to specialist nurses. Although the government is expanding the number of seats, it is difficult to get applicants. There is a problem here with how employers handle specialist nurses, both in terms of their ability to further train and in terms of how to use their skills afterwards. There is much more to be done. Here I have to ask a question: Is it the Moderates' view that we should extend this investigation in order to include the question of the specialist training of biomedical analysts? If so, it is an important message to the health service that this should also be included in the investigation and that we therefore want to delay it. Or should you do it in a way that is transparent and not particularly deepened? It is not a way of taking this very seriously either. As said: J ag is open because there may be a need for a further investigation about this particular thing, but then it should be done in special order. Until then, however, we can continue along this path. We are already on track when it comes to managing the entire supply of competence to healthcare through the assignments we have given to UKÄ and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare. We also work closely with the health authorities and the trade unions. There's a lot of need. There are large retirements in many occupations, not least in the public sector. However, as far as biomedical analysts are concerned, 13 universities and colleges have a degree certificate. Right now we have 1,275 full-year students and 540 beginners students. Here, too, it will be dimensioned. Unlike the Moderates, we also continue the expansion of the university with 25,000 new places until 2021, some of which are so-called free places that can be used precisely to meet the needs of both the labour market and the students' demand. If there is a great need for more specialists, it should be done just as in the case of Örebro University. The need should be identified by the social partners, employers and trade unions, and this should be done in collaboration with education providers, so that the right training can be offered. Not everything needs to be directed from the government and parliament to get it done. We have for 25 years a model in which universities and higher education institutions should take great responsibility for the education offering and where they should also have close collaboration with employers to dimension and ensure that it is the right type of education.
i-522f0581378b72ef-582	Madam President, I would like I think this is too important a matter for political pie-throwing, so if the Government opens up an investigation into this, I am very grateful. It's a way forward. With specialist training for biomedical analysts, the profession becomes more attractive, as we have said here, and the shortage can be reduced. Advanced care needs this knowledge in order for it to become more equal. Then you should hire specialists with quality assured training and not internally trained, because otherwise it does not feel good. It is positive that the Government welcomes a dialogue with relevant stakeholders on how the university can meet the competence needs of healthcare. If there can then be a special investigation about this, I am happy about it. If so, I hope that it will happen soon and that the Government will then take with it what we have debated here today. I also have a motion on this matter which I hope will be favourably dealt with by the Committee on Education. This is especially close to my heart because I am a biomedical analyst. This is therefore my profession that I feel for, and I feel for all the 10 000 biomedical analysts in Sweden who every day do an amazing job of diagnosing and getting a better, faster and more effective care in our country, and that is what we need. I am pleased with this. I will certainly follow the question, and I know that the Health Association is also following it. With this, I would like to wish both the President and the Prime Minister a really merry Christmas and a happy new year.
i-522f0581378b72ef-587	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lena Asplund, for a very important debate! We can certainly open up another investigation if that is what is required. In the meantime, however, it must not prevent the work that is going on between our universities and between health employers, where the trade unions are also an important part, from continuing. If it has been identified that there is a great need for specialist bioanalysts, for example, it should of course be possible to achieve this without waiting for a government investigation. I think it is important that we really see the great freedom and responsibility of higher education institutions when it comes to providing an education offering that matches the needs of employers. As you yourself say, it is important to ensure that there are both clear educational paths and career paths for these important professions. I would also like to say that professional training often requires not only practical training but also good introduction. This also requires collaboration with employers in order to be able to offer skilled supervisors who are trained and ensure that students get what is necessary for them to develop in these important and difficult professions. I look forward to the continuation of cooperation between those responsible. I am prepared to provide the necessary support to achieve the goal of absolute world-class health care. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish the President and the Member of Parliament a Merry Christmas.
i-522f0581378b72ef-592	Madam President, I would like Daniel Bäckström has asked me how I and the government are working to ensure the parliamentary decision to lower the concentrations of wolf in predatory areas. Furthermore, Daniel Bäckström wonders how I intend to follow up on the fact that socio-economic aspects are taken into account when deciding on protection hunting so that the vargrevir does not restrict rural development. Finally, Daniel Bäckström wonders how I and the government are working to follow up the county boards' management of protection hunting so that the authorities meet the demand for urgency on issues of large predators. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has the overall national responsibility for predator management. The work has delegated the right to decide on wolf hunting to the relevant county boards. The government does not plan to propose any changes to the liability regime regarding wolf hunting. The Government has introduced an urgency requirement in cases and cases of hunting for large predators in order to achieve a faster, efficient and equivalent decision-making process. The administrative court in Luleå has been made a special court for the review of such cases. In order for decisions on the hunting of wolves to be reviewed before the hunting period starts, the decisions of the county administrative boards must, as a general rule, be notified no later than 1 October. The government cannot have any views on the county boards' assessment of matters relating to hunting and hunting for wolves.
i-522f0581378b72ef-595	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I have written the interpellation because this is a highly topical theme, which it has been for a long time, in Värmland, among others. There is a widespread presence of wolves, and the territory has developed in recent years despite decisions taken on management and management opportunities. In Rackstadreviret, an area of 70 000 hectares between Sunne and Arvika on the west side of Värmland, six dogs have been attacked in the autumn. Three of them have died as a result of the wolf attacks. The County Administrative Board has granted protection hunting of four individuals, and this has taken place in three rounds. First there were two individuals, and then there were two more in the last decision. During the work, and also during the last year's inventories, there have been far more individuals in the group of wolves found in the territory than could be determined by the latest inventory. Work continues. It is more difficult in an area with many wolves to indicate exactly how many there are; it is about DNA samples and so on, as well as the number of traces. Now, however, we are talking about 12 - 14 wolves, according to the work of the last few weeks. An area of 70 000 hectares is large. It's wide land, and it's one of many areas in Värmland– and also in other parts of the country– that has relatively greater predatory pressure, and also greater prevalence of wolf, than other parts of the country. There is every reason to follow up on how implementation and management work is going on and what its impact is, as well as how it will work long-term to mitigate and reduce the socio-economic impact. In a Värmland perspective and also in a national perspective, we see clearly that this changes the conditions and opportunities for rural development. There are estimates indicating that the values of 1 million a week are now being wasted in the form of loss of rental income, hotel overnights, retail trade and food and meat values. However, this also applies to other values, which are added, in the form of missed opportunities for recreation and stay. Not least, it is a question of insecurity. I receive many reports, and many will be in touch after visits and meetings with government officials. They tell us how this is and is experienced in everyday life, and insecurity is something that is constantly being highlighted. People are out there worried that their horses, for example, will be attacked. This limits people's possibilities. The answer presented today by the Minister is well-defined, and I would like to be better highlighted by the Government and the Minister how they intend to follow up on the practical application based on the responsibility of the Government towards the authorities, the Environmental Protection Agency and the County Administrative Boards. I also wonder how the Minister views the number of wolves in Sweden. How many do the minister think it is? Would the Minister like to consider together how protection hunting can develop in order to reduce the pressure?
i-522f0581378b72ef-601	Madam President, I would like The member describes the situation regarding wolf – living with wolf is part of living in Sweden – and describes a largely functioning practice in my eyes. We, from the government, have changed the handling of protection hunting in Sweden. We have created order and order by decentralising decisions, which come closer to each region as they are taken by each county board. We have created order and order by clearing up the ambiguities and the confusion that existed in the past with regard to appeals. As I mentioned earlier, we have introduced an urgency requirement so that every year you are sure that you have decisions in place before the hunt can begin. This applies to both licence hunting and protection hunting. As I mentioned, in cases where wolves attack dogs or domestication, there is a system for deciding how to hunt for protection. As I understood the honourable Member's description, this is also done at the regional level, as it should be. When debating wolf in the Chamber, the difference often lies in the view of exactly how the hunting systems are to be decided and managed. What shines through most clearly in the honourable Member's submission is the question of what I, as Minister for the Environment, think about the number of wolves in Sweden – as if it were a question of opinion. I do not like the number of wolves in Sweden. We have a work that has the task of finding out how many wolves there are in Sweden. Nowadays this is done with an improved method. As the honourable Member mentioned, they have started working on DNA samples, and right now they are actually working on two methods to investigate whether it is a combination of the methods or one of them to be used in the future. After the work has started to take DNA samples of the wolves, we know more about how many wolves there are in different parts of the country and throughout Sweden, and based on these inventories we have concluded that – based on the regulatory framework set at European level – today we have a favourable conservation status for the wolf in Sweden. It is decided at European level how to decide when to have a favourable conservation status or not. The task the Riksdag has given to the work is precisely this – that the work should determine whether we have a favourable conservation status or not and develop methods for it, which has happened. It will be very dangerous if we make the facts seem to be true, and it would be regrettable if we were to once again introduce political assessments into what should be fact-based decisions that are best taken by local and national authorities and by courts in good order.
i-522f0581378b72ef-608	Madam President, I would like I asked if the Minister could answer how many wolves are in Sweden. It is not a question of opinion on the matter, but simply a statement of facts. It is also a very important aspect in relation to what is reasonable. How much should a county like Värmland have to carry when it comes to a national commitment? Locally and regionally in Värmland we feel that we have to take greater responsibility than is reasonable. The County Administrative Board proposed a number of rejuvenations against the continued work of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency exceeded that number of rejuvenations. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has now proposed a rejuvenation target for the entire region. How does the government intend to deal with it? Indeed, it would have a tremendous effect if the regional administration minister were to argue in favour of actually having an impact. As it is now, however, the overall assessment of a higher court by the County Administrative Board is being reviewed, and I do not think that is working. It's not a functioning predator management. Does the government intend to listen to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposals and make a workshop on this issue? This is an extremely important issue for the work of the coming year. When we see so clearly that the reality differs significantly from the inventories that have been made – there are more in the territory concerned – it is a situation that is not sustainable. Then you can't start from previous inventories to analyze. You always have to have a picture of how this changes. For a county such as Värmland, with many territories and about half – at least this has been the case in the past – of the country's wolves, this is also movable matter. It'll change. The legitimacy of our decisions taken is questioned by individual citizens. People don't feel involved. Nor does it feel that it is always possible to make comments or meet the responsible parties concerned. In many people's view, even if meetings are held, they do not happen often enough. I would like to welcome the Minister to come out to Rackstadreviret and meet the people concerned. Perhaps the Minister has done so – perhaps she has talked to people who have lost their hunting dog or with their sheep or have otherwise been socio-economically affected by the wolf's presence. This is not about the issue of compensation, it is about how people's everyday lives are curtailed and what changes are taking place in forests and land. A concrete question that is linked to the Minister's answer is the reference to the Administrative Court in Luleå and the urgency issue. The Administrative Court does not have any overall responsibility to follow up on the county administrative boards' handling of the requirement of urgency, but rather to examine it on a case-by-case basis. How does the government intend to follow up on that part? The work when it comes to Norway and Sweden is also extremely important. We live in a border country where the presence is also increasing on the Norwegian side, and it is discussed as much there as in Sweden. But what the dialogue looks like between Sweden and Norway – and how to deal with the border wolves – remains an important issue. Here is a vacuum where the levels far exceed the targets that have been dealt with here in the Riksdag, in the bill itself in 2013. Madam President, I would like I feel that the overall commitment of the government is developmental. I have had numerous debates on this issue with representatives and with other ministers, including with the Minister for Rural Development. I wish we could go further in the application.
i-522f0581378b72ef-618	Madam President, I would like In order to comment on the number of wolves in Sweden, I must – for the sake of the audience – start by explaining how the administration works. The inventory is done in winter, simply because it is very much easier to do when there is snow. As a result, in the middle of the summer each year the work reports an estimate of how many wolves there are in the country. This is then the basis for the decisions on licence hunting made in the autumn. Right now, there's a license and protection hunt going on all over the country. I do not have an up-to-date indication of how many of the hunting decisions have been taken that have led to the conviction of wolves. The sure number of wolves in Sweden we have in the summer. As the honourable Member says, it is a matter of living matter, and in the midst of the hunt it is indeed a moving matter. I am very pleased that Daniel Bäckström points out that the questions about the wolf's number, about the wolf's stability and distribution and about how good the wolf is – which is what we must strive to know – is liquid matter. This is because the wolves are moving across large areas, because we make hunting decisions and that reproduction is different in different years. This is one reason why it is so incredibly important that we let the expert authorities follow and handle the issues, so that we get a close connection between inventory – i.e. fact – research, different expert bodies' views on the matter and decisions. Any interference by the Riksdag or the Government would lead to detours and that we include political assessments on issues that should be about decisions based on facts. The Swedish Parliament has also decided that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will ensure that the wolf has a favourable conservation status in Sweden. The work's assessment is right now that this means that we will have 300 wolves in Sweden, spread across the country. This is based on an improved methodology, an in-depth knowledge of genetics – which is an important part of establishing conservation status – as well as an application of the European regulatory framework on how to establish favourable conservation status. In addition, if the facts were to change – which is happening all the time – the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has the opportunity to change this figure directly, without asking any politician for advice. There is also a dialogue with county boards to enable them to take decisions on regional hunting.
i-522f0581378b72ef-625	Madam President, I would like I have not yet received an answer from the Minister as to what her and the government's picture of the number of wolves is. Licensing has not yet begun, but it is individuals who have been granted protection hunting. The closer you get to Stockholm, the more wolves will be subject to protection decisions. In the case of the Södertörn wolf, as it is called in the folk mouth, protection hunting has been granted for a long period: from 6 December to 28 February. The application in the country, including Värmland, has in the past had far more limited time limits for how long the protection hunt may be conducted. Often it has been two weeks, but this has changed and is also different from case to case. We see that there are trends towards major regional differences in how to practice protection hunting. When the wolf is close to a urban area, a preschool or animal-holding operations in Värmland, it is assessed in a way. When wolves run into cities in Värmland, it is assessed in a way. But when the wolf – often individual wolves – comes close to people or domestic animals here in the Greater Stockholm area, I interpret it as being judged differently. In today's interpellation responses, the government and the minister say that they have no views on how the protection hunt is applied. But should it not be the case that there is reason to follow up what national application actually looks like and that there are differences? The Minister mentioned a number for the whole country, but the objective that is indicative is the total number for the Scandinavian Peninsula. Then it would be interesting to hear how the Minister intends to work to reduce the pressure for Värmland – it is Värmland that has to take the greatest responsibility for the day.
i-522f0581378b72ef-630	Madam President, I would like I would like to start with something that I did not have time to comment on earlier, namely the question of urgency. As far as the county administrative boards' decisions are concerned, we have said that some, including decisions on hunting, should be made with urgency. All case management at the county boards is monitored annually and taken together. In connection with this follow-up, one can see, among other things, the degree to which the urgency requirement for hunting decisions is met. In the same way, the National Courts will follow up on how the courts live up to the corresponding requirements in their part. There is, of course, a follow-up of the work of the authorities, on an annual and continuous basis. The honourable Member remains committed to what the government thinks about issues relating to decisions that need to be based on facts and whether the government intends to interfere in decisions that we have delegated to the regional level. We have delegated them to regional level because our firm conviction is that it is best for them to be taken at regional level. We do not intend to dive into those details. We have created a good order in the decisions regarding hunting, protection and licensing in Sweden, which takes into account different regions. We also have wildlife management delegations which provide citizens of each region through civil organisations with a platform to discuss these issues, including regionally, without detour via me or the Parliament.
i-522f0581378b72ef-634	Madam President, I would like Rickard Nordin has asked me what measures and legislative proposals I will put forward to remedy the errors in the cars that have been shown to emit too much particulate matter and for Sweden to be better equipped if it should happen again. Martin Kinnunen has asked me what measures I intend to take to persuade vehicle manufacturers to remedy the shortcomings that exist with regard to emission values for diesel cars previously sold. Both questions are raised in the light of the fact that diesel cars emit more in real traffic than the official values of cars. I therefore choose to answer all the questions put together. The approval of vehicles is regulated at EU level. Each EU country has an approval authority. Once a vehicle manufacturer has obtained an approval of a vehicle model, this applies in all EU countries. Only the approval authority that has issued the approval may withdraw the approval or require action for the vehicle model in question if deviations from existing EU requirements can be found. Of course, it is not allowed to cheat or manipulate vehicles in order to pass the EU approval test, as has been the case for certain models of Volkswagen diesel cars. When this is done, the approval authority which approved the models shall require the vehicle manufacturer to promptly correct the vehicles concerned free of charge to the vehicle owner. As a last resort, the approval authority may withdraw the approval of the models concerned. Volkswagen is today forced to recall and remedy all manipulated cars, regardless of where the car is located in the EU. In Sweden, the order of 130 000 cars has so far been fixed, and about 90 000 cars remain. I have been in contact with the responsible authority and I have received confirmation that the work is proceeding according to plan. If that changes in the future, we'll see if anything needs to be done. Today, there is no legal obligation for the car owner to have service provided by a qualified workshop, even if the service is free of charge for the car owner. It is only if the car has failed the inspection that the car can be subject to a driving ban. In Sweden there are a limited number of authorised workshops that have the right to carry out all technical and government-approved measures in Volkswagen cars, which limits the speed with which the measures can be implemented. On the other hand, in the case of cars which have passed the EU approval test without cheating or tampering but which still emit more nitrogen oxides than they can release on paper, neither the approval authority nor the authority of another country can reject the car afterwards. This means that neither Sweden nor other Member States can require these cars to be withdrawn or rectified. We know today that the European Union's approval test differs to a large extent from the way in which vehicles are used in real traffic. Several studies, including the major European study on vehicle emissions (HBEFA version 3.3), which came in April this year, have shown that diesel cars in particular have several times higher emissions of nitrogen oxides in real traffic than the official values of cars. However, it is impossible, as I said, to demand that already approved vehicles be rectified afterwards. In Germany, the car industry has agreed with the government to update the software of older diesel cars, known as Euro 5 cars, in order to reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides in the long term. We have not yet got any results from this. However, according to a study by the German Environmental Protection Agency, it is doubtful whether this will lead to a real reduction in emissions. Comparative tests on two Volkswagen models before and after updating, as the Swedish Transport Agency has done, also show no or low reductions in real emissions. This compares with the Swedish Transport Agency's proposal for the design of new environmental zones with high potential to reduce local air pollution. It is also important in this context to remember that changing the setting of the software for lower emissions of nitrogen oxides into the vehicle can lead to increased emissions of particulate matter and carbon dioxide. Updating a euro-5 car to the latest euro class 6 afterwards is both expensive and technically difficult. In order to cope with this, the car needs to be equipped with an external cleaning equipment for nitrogen oxides, so-called SCR systems, and the car's diagnostic system, so-called OBD systems, must be equipped with a new software that warns the driver if a failure occurs in the SCR system. In many cases, this costs more than the car's worth, and the government cannot demand that it be paid for by car manufacturers. In some models there is also no room for installing an SCR system, because it needs a special tank for purification fluid. At EU level, the government has pushed for reform of the EU approval test, in order to reduce the difference between the limit values in the test and the values of vehicles in real traffic. From September this year, a new cycle was introduced for emission testing, known as WLTP. The purpose of the new driving cycle is to better reflect the real fuel consumption. In addition, a ceiling was introduced on how much emissions of nitrogen oxides and particulates in real traffic may deviate from the limit values, so-called RDE. I'll get back to you with the rest of the answer.
i-522f0581378b72ef-646	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for the Environment, for your answer. It is estimated that there is now a somewhat more comprehensive response to the government's inaction on this issue. It should also be stressed that a voluntary agreement with the automotive industry in Sweden is not impossible. But it is of course a question of whether it is a good solution or not, and I hope that it is carefully evaluated whether it really can be. Environmental issues are often complex in nature. Of course, environmental and economic interests are often in conflict with each other, but different environmental interests can also conflict with each other, as they have done on this issue since the introduction of subsidies for different types of cars in 2009. The basis was low carbon dioxide emissions. There has been broad agreement on this between the blocs. Both red-green government options as well as the Alliance have gone to the choice of reducing low-emission cars in different ways. The Green Party itself has had proposals for bonuses – malus in its budgets, where the explanation has been that it should reward cars with low carbon emissions. This unilaterality has paved the way for significantly more diesel cars. A side effect of this development is that the emissions of particulate matter and nitrogen oxides from passenger cars have increased, while the total emissions of particulate matter have decreased. The environmental party has had the same unilateral focus on carbon dioxide as the other parties. The Swedish democrats have been out of this. We have not wanted to subsidise cars, but we think that people should pay for them themselves, that it is not the taxpayer's job. Suddenly we wake up and want to introduce environmental zones, i.e. zones where diesel power and many petrol cars can be banned. It creates a twitchy policy that is very damaging to both consumers and taxpayers, while at the same time the environmental benefits are very small. What we need is a long-term policy that both environmentalists and Swedish motorists can feel safe with. What we should remember is that air particulate emissions are decreasing in our country and in our cities. It is about 60 – 70 percent that particle emissions have decreased since the 80's. The air is therefore cleaner and cleaner. The number of days per year with high particle levels on individual streets, even in Stockholm, is decreasing and has done so over time. This has been made possible by technological developments which, of course, do not go overnight but step by step. Step by step, worse technologies are replaced by better ones. It creates foresight and clear rules of play. The proposal on environmental zones goes in the opposite direction, at least in the way it has been produced. The proposed environmental zones are estimated to provide little environmental benefit and very low socio-economic benefits, while the costs are estimated to be multi-billion. What this seems to be about is not protecting air quality, but stimulating the car hatred that exists in several parties, including the Green Party. Opening up to environmental zones without subjecting it to clear requirements for municipalities if they are to be allowed to introduce them risks giving a situation where, for example, a small 4% party in negotiations on the governance of different municipalities may require a ban on cars. This is an alarming scenario which I hope we can avoid even if the Green Party were to pass the blockages in municipalities and county councils in the forthcoming elections.
i-522f0581378b72ef-654	Madam President, I would like I will begin by concluding my opening speech, which was a little longer than time allowed. I was in the middle of the description of the new EU rules, which are now finally being implemented. There will therefore be a ceiling on how much emissions of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter in real traffic may deviate from the limit values. The new ceiling is introduced in two phases for nitrogen oxides. In the first phase, emissions of nitrogen oxides must not differ by more than 120 % compared to the limit values. In the second phase, introduced from 1 January 2020, the derogation shall not exceed 50 %. For particulate emissions, the introduction takes place in a phase and the deviation must not exceed 50% compared to the limit values. The fact that the regulatory framework allows a deviation from the limit values is due to the fact that measuring instruments used in the RDE on the road have greater uncertainty compared to the accuracy of measuring instruments used in laboratory tests. The introduction of the RDE test will significantly improve the emissions of both nitrogen oxides and particulate matter from new vehicles. To sum up, there is therefore an improvement in the EU regulatory framework. It's way too late, but at least now it's happening. It will not be an exact test but a clearly better test so that consumers get a car that is more like what the manufacturers say than has been the case in the past. We have had an acceptable development for many years. Let me also state that the knowledge that diesel cars cause high emissions of nitrogen oxides and particulates is in no way new. This knowledge has existed for a long time. For some years the industry managed to convince governments around the world that the diesel car was a solution to the climate issue because it had an advantage through higher efficiency and lower CO2 emissions. Governments all over the world were able to turn a blind eye to the well-known effects of nitric oxide and particulate matter. Many of us protested when the previous government chose to introduce subsidies for diesel cars. Many municipal politicians of different political colours and the environmental movement protested against the alliance government but did not succeed. This, together with a poor regulatory framework at EU level, has led to a significant increase in nitrogen oxide emissions from diesel cars in Sweden. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has recently written its forecast of how many people will die prematurely due to air pollution from 2,500 to 5,500 a year. It points to diesel cars as a particular problem and that developments in Sweden in recent years have gone in the wrong direction. With these facts, of course, we must act. We will do two things. We will remove subsidies for diesel cars, and we will enable the municipalities that have the worst affected streets to regulate which cars are allowed to drive on them.
i-522f0581378b72ef-666	Madam President, I would like Of course, hindsight is positive, so that we get more detailed analyses and tests. It is also positive that we are getting more subsidies out of this market, but unfortunately it is far from everyone. If you listen to the Minister's speech, you easily get the impression that there is some sort of consensus that we need to move quickly and ban cars that are in traffic from entering our cities. But that's not really true. There are researchers at the National Road and Transport Research Institute who have criticised the proposal, and the problems of diesel cars are considered excessive. The costs are estimated at 9.4 billion, while the benefits of the proposal are estimated at 333 million spread over ten years. Traffic analysis has concluded that the design of environmental zones is not economically viable. The proposal therefore demonstrates a very small environmental benefit at a very high cost. On the whole, diesel cars do not account for a significant proportion of emissions, but at best the effect would be marginal. In reality, the picture is much more complicated. Diesel cars have a major impact but are far from the only source. Particles, oxides of nitrogen and other health-affected exhaust gases come from a variety of sources. Weather, wind, topography and the design of buildings also play a role. Such a proposal will increase the demand for petrol cars. Is that right? We don't know that. When it comes to health effects from exhaust gases, particulate matter has the highest impact, but if the replacement is directly injected petrol cars, the emissions may instead be higher than from diesel cars. From the political point of view, it is therefore important to proceed cautiously. We must be humble in not knowing how all technology affects the environment, how it will work in practice when we are not in a test environment and how the market is affected by various interventions. The tests need to be improved, the requirements for manufacturers must be tough and technological developments must be guided by the fact that the worst technical solutions are not allowed to be sold. This is how we gradually achieve a continued positive development in the field of air without the risk of causing significant socio-economic damage to little benefit. The question is also why any citizen should trust politicians' eco-labelling. When does the best-before date expire? We can read reports that even electric cars can cause large particle emissions because they are heavier and need to use more force when braking. This is disputed by those who believe that it is not true, but we are faced with a situation where we do not really know what will happen in the future. Do we have to ban certain electric cars that have been sold with heavy subsidies? It is not a reasonable measure. Instead, we must make higher demands on cars and gradually phase out the bad ones from the market. Air quality is incredibly important, but we cannot stare blindly at a source of emissions when we have emissions from other countries and from wood burning. Wood burning is considered by many assessors to be the worst, but we do not prohibit people from burning at home. Although we make clear demands on which stoves may be sold, it is unfortunately slow. We can inform citizens how they better drive their cars and how they better burn in their stoves, but we do not prohibit wood burning.
i-522f0581378b72ef-676	Madam President, I would like I can assure the honourable Member that the government is working broadly against air pollution. For over 20 years, Sweden has carried out a successful regional effort to combat air pollution and reduced many emissions a lot. This work deals with all known sources of air pollution: industry, the whole of the transport sector – including shipping – which has historically been important and has made tremendous progress in recent years – and wood burning. Martin Kinnunen doesn't seem to know what's going on. It is prohibited to burn wood in some municipalities under certain conditions. Municipalities have the possibility to prohibit wood burning if they consider it justified. On the other hand, despite their responsibility for air quality, municipalities do not currently have enough tools to regulate traffic. In many areas we are pleased to see that air pollution is going down, but emissions from diesel cars are increasing. We do not have to guess, but it is enough to act on the basis of the knowledge available and to correct the decisions that have been taken on the wrong basis. I understand that citizens feel betrayed by the Alliance government, who told them that they bought an environmental car when they bought a diesel car. Many certainly did so in good faith, but it was a stamp that was wrongly grounded. It was already known then that the diesel car is not an environmental car and that it does not have environmental benefits when driving in urban areas, where most are actually driven. Now we will correct the part which was wrong. In the new bonus-malus system, no diesel cars will receive state subsidies, and we will not call the diesel car an environmental car in the future. Although it has advantages in its efficiency and is a fairly good road car, it is not a suitable urban car. We will give municipalities a tool to act on the basis of knowledge. I would like to repeat that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has written up the forecast for how many premature deaths air pollution causes in Sweden and that they point to the fact that the diesel car is an important reason why they are doing this revaluation. What does premature death mean? It's about children getting asthma at a young age and thus getting their lifetime counted down; such a child is simply expected to live less time. It is about the elderly who have a stroke and who die either immediately or in the suites of it. That's not how it's supposed to be in Sweden. Children should feel safe, and no parents should have to check air quality before taking a walk with their children on any street, anywhere in Sweden. I see no reason to wait to act.
i-522f0581378b72ef-684	Madam President, I would like Precisely, if justified, wood burning can be regulated. That is exactly how we Swedish democrats think that an environmental zone should be designed. If, at some point during the year, extremely high levels of particulate matter are seen, it may be possible to regulate whether cars should go in that day at all, if it is dangerous to health. In this case – environmental zones – the environmental benefit is very small. Probably never so few people have suffered damage from air pollution since they started measuring in the 80s, because the levels have never been as low as they are today. This alarmism, which speaks of people not having the courage to go out with their children, feels like a world away. This is an issue that engages. It engages fundamentalists on the left who think that the ends justify the means, but it also engages ordinary people who need the car in everyday life to make life go together. Many people who stay inside customs also need the car. These people do not expect the car, with the government eco-label, that they bought a few years ago, to suddenly get another stamp. There are no shortcuts to cleaner air. We cannot ban our industry, our power plants, our cars, our tires and firewood all hours of the day immediately. We can work on gradually tightening up the requirements for the technology sold, and we can inform citizens about how to drive or how to burn in their stove without causing unnecessarily high particulate emissions. We should not implement drastic measures that frighten and cause great economic damage to little and marginal benefit.
i-522f0581378b72ef-689	Madam President, I would like The government takes the problems of air pollution in Sweden and not least in our urban areas seriously. We do not sit still when municipalities report that they have too high levels of air pollution, such as nitrogen oxide, but we lack tools to do something about it. We lack the tools that enable them to guarantee their citizens security and let children walk, cycle and play anywhere in any city in Sweden. We are not satisfied with a situation where we know that children can get asthma from walking on a street and breathing the air there. In addition to a broad and systematic work on air issues with our neighbouring countries, we have two specific measures under way on the part of the air pollution problem where statistics show a trend that is going in the wrong direction, namely diesel cars. We intend to remove the subsidies imposed by the Alliance Government on diesel cars, and we will give those municipalities that have major problems with air pollution the opportunity to act and give them a tool to regulate traffic, which they lack today.
i-522f0581378b72ef-691	Madam President, I would like Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me if it is my view and the government's view that microplastics is the most important challenge in the work to achieve environmental objectives 4, 8 and 10 and, if so, what additional measures are planned to reduce the amount of microplastics in the water. The Government believes that the problems of plastic in the marine environment are one of the major challenges of our time in environmental work. There are estimates that as much as 13 million tons of plastic are released annually into the oceans. The sea has no natural limit, which means that once the plastic is in the sea, it is everyone's common problem. Microplastics are small plastic particles that are less than five millimetres. Microplastics can damage aquatic organisms both physically and toxicologically. By attaching environmental toxins harder to plastic than to natural particles, it can affect the levels of food from the sea. The widespread presence of microplastics in the oceans is partly due to the fact that larger plastic particles are broken down to less. The release of microplastics is also due to the presence of products in which microplastics have been deliberately added. There are also studies showing that some textiles can release a significant number of plastic fibres. Several countries have already introduced or are about to introduce measures to reduce the supply of microscopic plastic particles to seas, lakes and watercourses. In order to increase knowledge about the environmental impact of plastics, the Government set up a broad investigation in June. The investigation will, among other things, answer questions related to the problem of degradability. The Government has also decided on a mission to the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management in collaboration with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to develop concrete action proposals to reduce plastic emissions during littering. In the budget, the Government has set aside more than SEK 100 million per year until 2020 to reduce the problems of plastics in the oceans and nature, to reduce both microplastic and macroplastic. Whether the macroplastic is broken down into microplastics or not, it creates problems for animal life. There are a number of sad examples of birds and aquatic animals that have had their stomachs full of plastic. In answer to your question, the government considers that one important component among others to achieve environmental objectives 4, 8 and 10 is that measures are taken to reduce the amount of microplastics and other plastics in the marine environment.
i-522f0581378b72ef-699	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Plastic is an amazingly durable material, and in many areas this is a property that you are looking for, for example in food packaging where food lasts longer, which reduces food waste, or in electronics, where plastic has the characteristic that it does not lead power but, on the other hand, prolongs life and reduces energy consumption. But the strength of the plastic is also its weakness. The plastic that is not recycled but thrown away risks ending up in the environment and in the water. It can be broken down into problematic small components and create problems for plant and animal life. Here I will also say that some plastic is microscopic when it reaches the sea, for example from glitter, from beauty products and from clothes that have been washed. Madam President, I would like On behalf of the Government, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has investigated sources of microplastics and produced a report with proposals for measures. This study was finalized in June this year. Unfortunately, this study is not so broad. A survey has been carried out by the IVL Swedish Environmental Institute. I'm not critical of IVL in any way. But if you have two years to write a report, then there should be more than just one source. The results, which are the most interesting, are subject to quite large errors. The report states, among other things: For the majority of the charted sources, it has not been possible to calculate the percentage of microplastics transported to sea, lakes and watercourses. It is rather disappointing that a report contains such major errors. But it should also be said that these are complex systems. It's hard to track anything that's already everywhere. The solutions proposed in the report are quite modest. A number of training measures are proposed – that's the big package – and that's a good thing. But we also need concrete measures to reduce the amount of plastic that is already in the sea. Two main points are mentioned here as a recommendation to the government. One is to push in the EU for durability to be included in the energy labelling of tyres. The second is to develop ecodesign rules for washing machines. These are two modest proposals that are quite easy to support. Madam President, I would like The government has also – yesterday in fact – presented three new government assignments on microplastics on Aftonbladet's debate page. That is very welcome. Looking at cross-sectorally is a necessary approach, just as more research will be required for us to have evidence-based solutions. I would like to ask more specifically about a paragraph in the Minister's interpellation response which says: ..................................................... I would just like to ask a question about what measures are being taken here. Several countries have come forward with a ban on plastic bags and the like. Here, I think the Minister's position has been quite reasonable so far. However, when you point out the measures that have been taken abroad, I wonder whether there is something that we can learn from them and whether there are solutions that we can bring home and use here in Sweden too.
i-522f0581378b72ef-710	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I feel a little calmed when I hear Jesper Skalberg Karlsson's speech. When I read the interpellation, I actually wondered if he thinks that microplastics is that problems where we should act or not. But after his speech, I see that we seem to agree that this is the case. Worldwide, it is very intensive to find out more about the plastic pathways and their impact on the ecosystem, and effective methods of reducing outflows need to be identified. There have been a large number of reports on the subject in Sweden and internationally, including a comprehensive report from the UN Environment Programme from summer 2016. It was the basis for me and the world's environmental ministers at Unea just a few weeks ago agreeing on a resolution, where we are now standing together and saying that we need to work together globally to eliminate the use of added microplastics in products and to work in general to reduce the spread of plastics to water and nature. The measures taken so far by different countries depend very much on where the country is generally in the management of waste. A fairly large and ever-growing number of countries in the global South – countries that do not have well developed waste management – have decided to ban plastic bags and other plastic products. Kenya is a country that did so only a few months ago. I had the opportunity to visit Kenya in connection with Unea. A striking change was described. In a country that does not have a functioning waste management system, this type of effect, together with large collection efforts, has a very large impact. In the Western world and among developed countries, it is another type of action that is being taken and that we environmental ministers are discussing with each other. There are several countries that have decided to ban added microplastics in cosmetics, in the same way that we are about to do in Sweden. Such a ban exists in the United States and England, and several other countries are in the process of doing so. It's not the biggest source, but you could say it's a low-hanging fruit. Citizens, consumers and governments agree that it is simply unnecessary to produce and add microplastics to products where other materials can fulfil the same benefits and you can get equally good products on the market. It is also very important that we really move forward in other parts. We do this now in the three official assignments that Jesper Skalberg Karlsson described. We will make sure that we learn more about the spread of tyres and road markings and see if there are methods to simply catch these plastics in stormwater management before they reach the watercourses. We will continue to work on questions about artificial turf plans, which is another part where we add microplastics. Can you handle them better? Can you find new materials? These are examples of the kind of issues that we are now working on.
i-522f0581378b72ef-716	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for that answer. It is true that I have written an interpellation that is a bit critical, and I line up some research results from scattered studies that may point to a different picture than that given in the debate on microplastics in Sweden. I do that because I care a lot about this problem. Overall, I think that as a politician, perhaps one day a week, you should take some time off from your own convictions and look at things from other sides. If we are to solve this problem, we need to be very effective. There are many examples of politics around the world where one focuses on the small problems instead of the big ones and lets the public debate edge for something small. The Minister mentions here that we want to see a ban on additives in makeup. That can certainly be right. However, it should be borne in mind that this involves 40 tonnes of additives to the Baltic Sea per year. But if you look at the tyre wear, it's about 8,000 tons. So you should have these relationships with you. Madam President, I would like There are many parameters to take into account when designing measures to reduce the appearance of marine litter and microplastics in the future. Now that I have the opportunity, I will mention some issues that should be on the table and agendas of future governments. Firstly, the lion's share of large plastic litter floating ashore in Sweden does so on the west coast. It's not junk from the big emitters. I mentioned in my interpellation that over 90% of marine litter comes from ten rivers, none of which exist in Europe. The debris that floats ashore on the west coast does not come exclusively from Sweden, but comes largely from the UK. Being able to put pressure on them to better take care of their own junk after Brexit has been implemented is difficult but will be necessary. I have seen figures showing that some 20 000 tonnes of litter are dumped in the North Sea every year. It is quite large quantities, although it may sound a little when talking about millions of tons in the world. Secondly, washing machines are a source of microplastics. British studies have looked at how different garments react when washing them in different mixtures and at different temperatures. Almost no matter how you mix clothes, quite large amounts of microfibers are released. Many have suggested different types of filters on washing machines to pick up the plastic. Here I think that politics needs to look at the user perspective much more. We do not want a situation where there is a requirement that there should be filters in the washing machines, but that the user will then still rinse out this filter in the sink as you might be able to do with the filter from the dryer. The user perspective will therefore be extremely important. Thirdly, EU-wide solutions are an effective tool. As part of maritime and water policy, the Alliance Government imposed a ban on phosphates in detergents, and the EU followed. But you can also think about what the next step is. I think that the Sewage Directive is something we should look at more. In another project, I looked at this directive and realised that there are no demands whatsoever for, for example, drug purification. When updating them in a review, consideration should also be given to measures in the field of microplastics. Madam President, I would like We agree on a lot. The small solutions put forward so far, such as the ban on micro-grains made of plastic in cosmetic products intended to be rinsed off, are easy to support. But, as I said, the micrograins account for about one thousandth of the marine microplastic, according to a rough estimate from the Chemicals Inspectorate. Now the government has given several authorities assignments, and the plastic investigation has also been added, which it will be very interesting to follow. But I want to know if there's anything the government can see that you can do here and now. How do you look at the suggestions that I line up here?
i-522f0581378b72ef-725	Madam President, I would like I understand that Jesper Skalberg Karlsson and I are largely in agreement on the problem. Plastic spreads and turns into microplastics. Microplastic is added to products and spreads. Today we do not know exactly how this spread goes from the source, but we know that animal life in watercourses and seas is being damaged. You don't need much biological education to understand that if a mammal eats a piece of plastic in the belief that it is food, it doesn't get any nourishment in it. There is also a great risk, as I said, that the piece of plastic is subject to chemicals. It is important that we act on the knowledge we have, but this is also a complex problem. Plastic is found in large parts of society and makes great use of it in large parts of society. There is not an alexander hem that solves this issue, and that is why we in the government are working in several ways and at several levels. Several works are active, and we are now giving, in connection with the regulatory letters, additional assignments so that more of our agencies will work to obtain more knowledge and also find effective measures. Sometimes it'll get to be end-of-pipe. As long as friction is present and until someone has invented tyres and road markings that are not worn, we will probably in a first step have to look for end-of-pipe solutions in the storm water. But it is in any case possible to sort out plastic particles as long as they are in stormwater. When they have reached the sea it is virtually impossible or at least very difficult and very expensive. There are such attempts. We have research institutions in Sweden looking at this in practical terms, and we also have a special pot of money for such pilot projects in our plastic venture. Several treatment plants around Sweden look at whether you can refine the collection of microplastics. Today, it is different to what extent the treatment plants pick up the microplastics. There are also experiments from large and well-known washing machine manufacturers who have contacted Swedish research institutes on their own initiative. I recently visited Swerea in Gothenburg, and they showed me that they have research to learn more about how textiles are worn depending on the washing programmes and whether there are rational ways to clean the water. I would like to put consumer information here: it is better to put the drying machine dribbling in the trash, because it can also contain plastic particles. It's a small thing we can do in everyday life. In some parts I am absolutely convinced that the procurement tools are the most effective. This applies, for example, to artificial turf plans. Artificial grass plans are procured in Sweden largely by municipalities and by large sports associations. There's not that many. Should they join forces and require better and more sustainable artificial turf plans, the market would of course act very quickly. There is already a procurement group where the Procurement Authority helps municipalities to develop environmental requirements in relation to artificial turf plans, but as I said, we should also let the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency look at increased regulation of this issue. I can go on, because this is a really complex issue. We need to find effective measures at different stages. It is best when we can do as with cosmetic products and say that it is actually unnecessary – we can get just as good products without plastic, and then we can ban the plastic. That's what we've been working on high up in the hierarchy. We then need to work all the way down to that in some parts also look at end-of-pipe, i.e. better purification.
i-522f0581378b72ef-735	Madam President, I would like What the Minister mentions about bioaccumulation, that is, small fish larvae eat microplastics whereupon they are eaten by larger species, is very frightening. I personally do not eat fish, but it is worrying that the amount of plastic is so large. We are seeing in the Baltic Sea at the moment how fish species are so thin that they look like other species. Plastics do not contain nutrients, so it can contribute to their not growing up. Madam President, I would like The work in Parliament is over for this year, and I do not get the last word, but this is still the last interpellation debate before Christmas leave. I am pleased that the Minister for the Environment came here and debated even though there are only a few days left until Christmas Eve. It has been a turbulent year for politics in the world, politics in Sweden and certainly also for us elected representatives sitting in this House making decisions. We're well worth some Christmas vacation. I would like to thank you for this last debate this year. Maybe there'll be more next year, but first we'll be free.
i-522f0581378b72ef-738	Madam President, I would like Jesper Skalberg Karlsson talks about frightening facts, and there are unfortunately plenty of things about plastic. I had the opportunity to visit researchers from the University of Gothenburg earlier this autumn. They told me that the research community believes that if you collect all the measurements and sources and compare the results, you can say that you have found plastic in all the world's waters. It is found in all the lakes, in all the watercourses, in the deep seas and in shallow bays all over the earth, even in those parts where there are no humans because the water moves without limits. In the face of this, you can feel powerless. When there is also information that there is plastic in our drinking water – in Sweden we have found plastic particles in, among other things, Vänern and Vättern – it gets really close. One task that I have not mentioned so far is that the Swedish Food Safety Agency, which is responsible for drinking water, will look at the presence of plastic in our Swedish drinking water supplies and see how we can fix this. This is frightening, but there is a much more hopeful side to this story. When I act regionally in the Nordic Council of Ministers, when I act regionally in a larger region of Helcom and OSPAR and when I go to Unea and meet the world's Environment Ministers, there is an enormous commitment and great determination and innovation. Business also provides money and solutions for the future. I would also like to thank you for a good debate. I look forward to next year and would like to conclude by saying: it is clear that we are going to resolve this issue too.
