i-1636009e826e78ed-3	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures the government and I intend to take to reduce unemployment and whether I think the increase in unemployment is a problem. Niklas Wykman has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce the employment gap between immigrants and Swedish-born people. Since the government took office, employment has increased by 200 000 people. About 70 per cent of the employment growth has occurred among foreign born children, and the employment rate of foreign born children is now the highest since measurement began. The official unemployment statistics from SCB show that unemployment continues to decline. In April, unemployment stood at 6.6 per cent, compared with 7.0 per cent one year earlier. At the same time, we are seeing an increase in the number of unemployed registered at Arbetsförmedlingen. This is an expected development in the wake of the very large reception of refugees in 2015. A large number of new arrivals who have been granted a residence permit are now enrolled in the Employment Service's establishment assignment to find out about the efforts needed to get to work in a new labour market for them. To continue to raise the employment rate of foreign born people, especially women, and to break long-term unemployment are high government priorities. We have implemented a series of measures and intend to do more to get more people to work. The time in the establishment assignment will be used effectively, and newly arrived women and men will receive adapted efforts to get to work. The Government has therefore submitted a proposal to the Riksdag with proposals for a new regulatory framework for the establishment assignment. The new regulatory framework aims to reduce administration, increase the conditions for flexibility and strengthen Arbetsförmedlingen's ability to impose requirements on the individual. The Government assumes that the Riksdag will support these important changes in the establishment mandate, which is intended to enter into force on 1 January 2018. In the past, Sweden has not been well equipped enough to effectively promote the establishment of newcomers in the labour market and in society. This is why the government has taken a number of initiatives for a more coherent and systematic approach to reception and establishment. A residence law has been introduced which provides for a more balanced reception of new arrivals in municipalities, taking into account the labour market situation and population size, but also the overall reception of new arrivals in the municipality. Early intervention for asylum seekers has been strengthened, start-up efforts have been developed and the start-up mission will be made more effective. Roads to education have been further strengthened and strengthened by the start-up support introduced in July 2017 for the unemployed with short education. Through additional services and modern preparedness jobs, the possibility of work has been strengthened for those who are far from the labour market, and we see that these are developing at a good pace. The government is also reviewing subsidised employment to make it easier and more accurate. The Government's measures aim to shorten the way to work for newly arrived and unemployed and to lay the foundations for meeting the high demand for labour.
i-1636009e826e78ed-13	Mr President, I would like to It has not yet gone as bad as the last time Ylva Johansson was Minister for Labour, but let us still remind ourselves of what Ylva Johansson is capable of accomplishing. The last time Ylva Johansson was Minister of Labour every ten persons of working age, aged between 18 and 64, were retired early. At that time, Ylva Johansson and her government had set up bonuses at Försäkringskassan to as quickly as possible early retirement as possible. Ylva Johansson thus succeeded in pushing out every tenth person in early retirement. It is worth remembering, Mr President, when we now hear the measures which Ylva Johansson is upsetting and what consequences they will have. Mr President, I would like to This debate will be about two famous Swedish expressions: lies, cursed lies and statistics as well as contented, contented and Ylva Johansson. At t boasting of job growth in a strong boom is like bragging that you don't have to tread downhill when you cycle. That is a remarkable satisfaction from the Minister for Labour. Satisfaction is remarkable for at least three reasons. The first is that the Ministry of Finance judges the labour market minister's own employment policy. The Ministry of Finance's budget clearly states that the policy pursued does not reduce equilibrium unemployment, i.e. the policy that Ylva Johansson is talking about, according to the government's own estimates, does not lead to any reduction in unemployment in Sweden. It is only economic activity that drives this. The second thing that surprises us about satisfaction is that every expert authority condemns Ylva Johansson's and the government's unemployment targets and the measures needed to get there. The most remarkable thing, however, is that it seems that the Minister has locked himself in the department, pulled down the blinds and does not see the serious reality that currently prevails in Sweden. Big gaps are emerging between people, neighbourhoods, cities and regions, where crime, subsidies and housing shortages are establishing a new strong and large exclusion in Sweden that seriously hinders job growth in our country. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates have presented a clear job goal, a clear ambition to halve the gap between native and foreign born. For this we have also developed reforms based on the best available experience and research on grant ceilings, on improvements in the housing market and on making all jobs 500 SEK more profitable each month. Mr President, I would like to To all of this, the Minister for Labour says no and refers instead to a wide range of old measures which last time Ylva Johansson held the ministerial post led to one in ten people of working age becoming a disability pensioner.
i-1636009e826e78ed-23	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The answer shows that the rise in unemployment in the boom is due to the fact that many of the large number of refugees who came to our country have been granted a residence permit and have now entered into the establishment reform and that process. That's when the job challenge gets sharp. Now the situation is sharp, and now there must be jobs for all people looking for a job. The statistics show that the gap between domestic and foreign-born employment has historically been much smaller than it is today. This is because during the 50s and 60s, and to some extent even the 70s, more of them came as labour immigrants. Then it has moved to a larger proportion of refugee and family immigration, which places greater demands on a progressive labour market policy. During the 1990s crisis, employment fell markedly among foreign born people, and then it increased again until there was a financial crisis in 2008. Now we have the position we are in today. It is a very strong situation for those who are now going into the labour market, and it is a matter of pursuing a policy that supports it. I would like to focus on the situation of women. There is great concern about the participation of women born abroad in the labour market. I do not believe that the percentage we can see is the actual figure. Only those registered at Arbetsförmedlingen can be seen in the statistics. There must be a dark number. I would like the Minister to mention something about this. It's kind of like with NEET's, that is, the young people who aren't included in the statistics. Based on the experience of my municipality, I believe that there are many women who are not at the disposal of the labour market. Jobs and languages are the prerequisites for being involved in and entering society from a democratic perspective and for being able to support yourself and your family. It is even tougher for a woman who is outside the labour market and a community to try to support herself and her family on her own. All obstacles must be defined; those that prevent anyone who can work from taking a job and having a job to go to. It is about minimising obstacles for those who need extra replenishment of resources in terms of training and experience and making it easier for companies to hire. It is not possible to have a labour market policy in which, on the one hand, the Minister takes various measures and brings forward ideas of solutions and, on the other hand, other ministers put a brake on entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. They have to go hand in hand. In the present situation, it will be extremely unfortunate if one hand tries in one way and the other hand signals a variety of new taxes that make it much harder to hire. I can't do that today. We can't have it like that. I am honestly concerned that it will not be good if we cannot achieve a much better labour market policy that provides more for businesses. It is in smaller companies that growth must take place. That's where people need to be able to get in. That is where the livelihood – the money – lies so that we can create a well-being for all. Sweden is growing. The more people who work, the wider our common taxes and efforts become.
i-1636009e826e78ed-30	Mr President, I would like to I was a little surprised when I listened to Niklas Wykman. The number of people on sick leave is record low – if it has even been so low in the past. It's down to very low numbers. I feel like Niklas Wykman is fighting windmills. I am also a little surprised when Niklas Wykman says that I have been Minister of Labour in previous governments. I haven't been. But, of course, the government is always collectively responsible, and I have been in other governments – but not with this ministerial portfolio. Lotta Finstorp raises important issues. It is correct that the employment rate gap is higher between domestic and foreign born now compared to the 50s and 60s. This is because the composition is different today. This shows that there are incredibly great challenges, not least with regard to women. It is just as Lotta Finstorp says, namely that many women disappear from the labour market. It is therefore a significantly lower employment rate for women born abroad than for women born domestically or men born abroad. But there is no higher unemployment for that group. This is because many are not even at the disposal of the labour market, but disappear from the labour market. The reform carried out with the establishment mission had some shortcomings. That is why I have tabled a proposal on changes. But in the start-up assignment there are some really good things. Among the really good things is that each individual is enrolled and receives his/her own compensation that is not dependent on family income or affected by, for example, the spouse getting a job. These are good incentives, and both men and women, in principle all, are enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen during the commission. It provides a good opportunity to help people at work during the 24 months. After the 24 months, we see a large group of women actually leaving the labour market. It's serious. There, more things need to be done to hold women, and that also applies to changes in the way of meeting the individual. It is important to motivate education and to create pathways to work. In employment policy, employers' needs must be at the heart of the agenda. The overall problem of almost all employers, not least of the smaller companies mentioned by Lotta Finstorp, is to find the right people. It is extremely difficult to find staff with the right skills. Then you have to apply among people with a little bit of other or lower competence than you would have expected. It could be good anyway, but it'll be a little further. Labour market policy, in this economic situation, has an important part to play in building on skills. It is about shorter vocational training and regular education to equip people for the vacancies that are actually in record numbers right now.
i-1636009e826e78ed-38	Mr President, I would like to I'm so sorry! Of course, right should be right. Ylva Johansson's political career is such that she was driven into parliament by Communist youth, later became a member of parliament of the Left Party Communists and then was Minister of Health and the Elderly in previous governments. These were the governments where every tenth person was driven out into early retirement, for which Ylva Johansson was collectively responsible – for which she herself carefully emphasises. Mr President, I would like to I'm afraid we'll again see that toolbox coming in place where so many people will be pushed out into exclusion and early retirement – which Ylva Johansson and her governments have a tradition of. Ylva Johansson now places a heavy responsibility on Sweden's municipalities. She is fleeing from the government's responsibility for integration and establishment, and she says that all responsibility lies with Sweden's municipalities. Then it is worrying that at the same time there is a report showing that Sweden's municipalities, due to government policy, have no incentives, no incentives, to create jobs. The levelling-up system does not make it worthwhile for the municipalities of the country to create jobs, even though it is work that is needed to cope with integration. Malmö and Gothenburg drain resources from other municipalities in the country by obtaining such high revenues from the equalisation system, which means that there will be no money left over to others. This drains municipalities, such as Kiruna and Solna, on income to pay for a failed Social Democratic policy in Gothenburg and Malmö. This is particularly serious for the Government's Malmö store window, where about one in ten people live on subsidies. The municipality's own audits show that 19 out of 45 payments of supply aid are incorrect. We meet on television with reports of violence, murder, insecurity and saving people. This situation prevails in the government's own display window Malmö. Ylva Johansson is now trying to export the situation in Malmö to the rest of Sweden with the help of the Government Offices. It's about subsidies, crime, housing problems. How can the situation in Malmö, Ylva Johansson, be a solution to Sweden's problems? How will more of what we see in Malmö be able to make Kalmar, Sollefteå, Solna or any other municipality in Sweden better? The policy that prevails in Malmö, financed by the levelling system with which the Minister is so pleased, creates enormous human suffering. People live in crime and exclusion. They feel that the way into the labour market is completely closed. How will the policy that has led to the situation we have in Malmö be able to strengthen people, increase integration and make the rest of Sweden work? And how can the Minister think that it is reasonable for Kiruna residents to pay for the subsidy fraud that takes place in the Social Democratic window of Malmö?
i-1636009e826e78ed-44	Mr President, I would like to I would like to continue to dwell on the subject of women born abroad and the low proportion of these who are employed and present in the labour market. Among highly educated people, it is roughly the same among foreign and domestic born. Of course, they are much easier to find a job. However, of those who have come today and take part in the start-up assignment, about half of them lack upper secondary skills. However, it is not just the women; so are the men. The Swedish language is a key. Sfi is not the most successful in the way it has been done in the past and is being conducted today. It must be linked to an employer in order to give effect. In addition, psychologically speaking, many people, when they have, so to speak, come ashore and can pummel out into a family. You often have more children, and then you come from, for example, your language introduction or internship. You get home and away and end up in isolation many times. You get away from the Swedish language. I was on a study visit to a private company in Flen that has SFI training and also a kind of open preschool. There, the newly delivered mothers can continue to read their sfi three hours a day, and the children are gathered in the open preschool in the next room. That's very smart. I met two dentists from Syria who had just had children and I can continue to study their professional Swedish language. I think it would be good if more people had it that way out in the municipalities. I'm from Flen County. We have a long tradition of opposing refugees and are proud to have done so for many years. But there you can see that many foreign born who have been in Sweden for 20 years still go on subsistence support. So it is not just those who have come in recent years that solutions need to be found. It is also important to open up the labour market in a completely different way to those who have been here for quite some time. The provision for these families is therefore financial aid. This means that there are no clear incentives to take up a job, if only for a few hours, because the supply support will then be reduced. Then it's wrong somewhere. It must always pay more to have a job to go to and earn your own money than to go on subsistence support. Here are some suggestions. For example, the Alliance government introduced a 25 % job stimulus for those who have income support. We want to expand that. Reforms such as incentives and incentives for more people to work would be good if we could also see from the current government. This also applies to RUT and ROT services. As soon as we talk about simple jobs in this Chamber, it gets weird and irritated. However, if the RUT and the ROT were to be extended and the ceiling raised, on which we have proposals from the moderate side, more people could come in and get just simple jobs that you do not need to have special vocational training to get. It can be a bridge to the Swedish labour market. Then you can continue and educate yourself to a profession that you choose and want and where there is work. When I look at the statistics, I see that Switzerland, Norway and Sweden are the countries in Europe that have the least number of simple jobs. It is defined as professions that do not require specific vocational training. I think it is one of the keys, and that explains why we cannot get more people into the labour market.
i-1636009e826e78ed-54	Mr President, I would like to We are approaching 80 000 enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen's establishment assignment. That's more than you've ever worked with. It's a huge challenge. It is almost impossible to overestimate the challenges that this entails for so many people in such a short time to enter the Swedish labour market at the same time. At the same time, there are groups who have been here longer who, for other reasons, are also outside the labour market. In this situation, Niklas Wykman puts an interpellation to me on how to reduce the employment gap between foreign and domestic born. This is, of course, a relevant and very important issue that I have tried to address in my answers here. But in his lines Niklas Wykman would rather discuss completely different issues. Early retirement is one. The number of newly retired people is down to very low levels, so it cannot reasonably be what is Sweden's problem today. Niklas Wykman wants to shoot murders and violent crimes. They are, of course, problems and of course important questions, but perhaps subjects for another debate. The municipal equalisation system also deserves a debate. There I really want to say that we want to stand up for a policy that makes Sweden stick together, that the whole of Sweden can live and that the gaps between city and country and between different regions in Sweden are narrowing. Lotta Finstorp addresses the important issue of women born abroad. I can say to Lotta: It is actually even worse than you describe. If you look at what happens after the start-up assignment – you measure 90 days after completing the start-up assignment – you can see that among young women, under 40, with post-secondary education, 27 per cent have a job. Among young men under the age of 40, without one's primary school, 36 percent have a job. We know that education is a watershed in the labour market, but among newcomers, gender seems to be an even larger watershed. Of course, this should not be taken as revenue to avoid investing in education, but it shows that we have even greater problems and structures to work with. This is one of the reasons why I have given a special assignment to Arbetsförmedlingen to focus on the foreign-born women. An important issue is to create more jobs that women can seek – although the whole labour market is, of course, open to both women and men – but also to ensure that the different subsidies used are distributed equally between women and men. Fortunately, we can see that in the case of modern standby jobs it is so far fifty-fifty, i.e. about half women and half men, and in the case of auxiliary services a majority of women. This is needed, because for many other employment subsidies, such as new start jobs, a large majority of men are, not least, new arrivals. I think we will have to follow these issues very closely and come up with more initiatives. Parental leave is indeed a challenge. Of course, it's fun that people want to have children. It is deeply human and welcome that people have children. But the structures need to be reviewed. We've removed the custody allowance, which was a female trap. We have made changes in parental insurance for the children you already have when you come here to Sweden so that it will not be too long at home and away from the labour market. I think that proposals to combine parental leave with Swedish studies or Swedish studies in the labour market are important. Finally, the issue of incentives. We shall have our own interpellation debate on incentives, but I will come back to that in my last speech.
i-1636009e826e78ed-66	Mr President, I would like to It is telling that the Minister for Labour wants to cancel my contributions from the debate. The Minister for Labour does not want to be aware of the problems that lie at the root of the unemployment and the lack of integration that we have in Sweden. Nor does the Minister for Labour want to be aware of the problems, human and economic, to which her policy leads. But, Ylva Johansson, it is so that when there are no motivations to create and take jobs, exclusion becomes greater. And, Ylva Johansson, when exclusion becomes greater, insecurity, ill health and crime increase. So it's connected. As much as Ylva Johansson wants it, unemployment is not something that can be isolated from various measures, programmes and activities at Arbetsförmedlingen. Jobs are created by companies and entrepreneurship. People who don't have jobs end up in a worse situation that can't be handled with measures at Arbetsförmedlingen but that often leads to a worse feeling, is worse and sometimes also gets caught up in destructive behaviours. Ylva Johansson! That's how society connects. It is not possible to decouple the problems we see in Sweden from the responsibility that you have for the unemployment policy, the alienation policy that you and the government are pursuing. That is why we in the Moderates have initiated a policy based on science and experience, which provides tens of thousands more jobs. The policy represented by the Minister for Labour provides zero jobs.
i-1636009e826e78ed-71	Mr President, I would like to At the last turn, I finished with the simple jobs, which are very few in three of the European countries, including Sweden. This has served us well; we have trained. For example, many of those with low or no education in care for the elderly have become nurses. Today, however, the situation is quite different, and we must ensure that people enter the labour market by taking in people who do not yet have much education and are able to take the simple jobs that do not require it. Sweden is in a boom, but unemployment is worryingly high in parts of the country. In Flen municipality, where I live, one hour commuting from Stockholm, unemployment is 16 percent. In that group there is a very large proportion of foreign born. The municipalities that have now received many refugees are those where there have been empty homes because the jobs have disappeared. The jobs aren't there anymore. So it is undeniably very heavy out in many municipalities. There is much to be said in this debate, and I think I might be able to write another interpellation. Because the women are a group I really am passionate about, and it is very worrying that they are outside the labour market. But it is also important to have a policy for entrepreneurship in Sweden, because this is connected. Yesterday we had a tax seminar under the auspices of the Tax Committee, and a leader from a large multinational company said that it is about where to establish itself globally. It is mainly where there are long-term rules of play that they establish themselves – it also plays a role, of course, where the market is. But as soon as the government sets up an investigation that can hit entrepreneurship, you close your ears.
i-1636009e826e78ed-76	Mr President, I would like to Let us still look at what reality looks like. 200 000 new jobs have been created since this government took office. I have had countless debates with Niklas Wykman's party friends in this House, who have asked for more labour market policy measures and more people in such measures. Labour market policy and labour market policy measures are important, but the key to job creation and combating unemployment is never labour market policy. It is through economic policy and investment in society that demand and a climate are created that enables companies and other employers to and want to grow. This is actually what we are seeing in Sweden right now, which is gratifying. There are other positive elements. Niklas Wykman speaks of alienation. The number of people supported by compensation systems is steadily declining; we are down to a very low level. Full-year equivalents, commonly referred to as alienation, are steadily declining during this government. There are very few people who need different types of support for their livelihoods. Lotta Finstorp, I share the view that we need more ways into work for those who do not have that high level of competence from the beginning. I am pleased to say that the parties are contributing to this. We have seen this in industry, where agreements have been concluded that create ways for those who do not have education. Kommunal and SKL have now taken a stand for ways to help patients – a step that is not quite as far as the step to becoming a nurse. In the new agreement between the Construction and Construction industries, we see something that I think is very good: professional-oriented practice, which can then be transferred to a career introduction position. This is for those who do not have the skills from the beginning, but it is built on. We need to make more of this, and we also need to raise awareness of the roads that exist.
i-1636009e826e78ed-82	Mr President, I would like to Sofia Fölster has asked me what concrete initiatives I and the overall government intend to take to increase incentives to move from grants to work and self-support, and how I and the overall government will break the dependency of new arrivals. The Government's job agenda consists of efforts to increase skills and an active labour market policy, investment in housing and infrastructure, and an active industrial policy. The government is actively working to strengthen the pathways to work for new arrivals, as well as for others who are in unemployment. The government has taken steps and intends to take further measures to increase the opportunities for newcomers to enter the labour market. Everyone who can work is going to work. The results of the Employment Service's start-up assignments need to be improved. Today, the proportion of people who have a job or take part in regular training after completion of the establishment plan is only one third, which is too low. The results are particularly low among women, and the difference between men and women is significant. Against this background, the Government has submitted a proposal to the Riksdag for a new regulatory framework for the establishment mission. The aim is to make the regulation of the establishment of newcomers more similar to the rest of the labour market policy framework. This is expected to lead to an increase in the number of people leaving the start-up position for work or studies. A similar system of measures applicable to the other unemployed should be introduced for new arrivals in the start-up phase. Those who do not participate in the actions deemed necessary to obtain a job should not be entitled to all or part of their remuneration. In this way, incentives to look for a job, train and participate in other actions aimed at establishing an individual in the labour market will be strengthened.
i-1636009e826e78ed-87	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer, although I must admit that I am not entirely satisfied. It's pretty easy to stand here and be satisfied when things are going well in the economy, it's booming and the train is generally tough on. But the problem is that the difference between different groups is getting bigger and that today there are 123 municipalities where over 30 percent of foreign born people do not have a job to go to. The problem is that the differences are huge. In Filipstad, 60 percent of foreign born people have no job to go to. That is the big problem: a new exclusion is emerging, with certain groups being left entirely out of it. In the past, another debate was held here on similar subjects. At the time, the Minister for Labour said that it is a great challenge when many people come to Sweden. It's hard and hard to establish people. But I would like to say that the people who have now come to Sweden are people who have made it across half the globe – people with huge driving forces, who want nothing more than to get a job to go to and are prepared to make an effort very much. But then it depends on which policy the government pursues. If you pursue a policy where it pays to go from grants to jobs and learn Swedish and where each individual effort makes a difference, more people will also make more effort and be able to enter the labour market. Unfortunately, however, this is not the policy we see. The tax on jobs and employers' contributions has been increased while more money has been spent on increased contributions in various forms. This reduces the amount of money you earn if you make an effort. We in the Moderates believe that if you want to get people into real jobs and not find jobs as different types of craft work, you also have to make it profitable to try and make it more profitable for companies to hire. This reduces the threshold for entry into the labour market. That is why, for example, we have proposed a ceiling. It is not reasonable for a family to be able to earn over $25,000 a month without working for one hour. On the other hand, if you make an effort, go to work and do your utmost, it should pay more. That is why we are proposing a major reduction in taxation, especially for those who earn the least. It is this kind of policy that makes effort pay more and that it pays to fight, learn Swedish and do their utmost to get into work. That is precisely what is needed right now, as the differences in Sweden between those who are outside and those who are inside the labour market are increasing. Here I think the government should do much more. I hope that the Minister for Employment will take the impression of the Moderates' proposals and of what I and my colleagues are saying here today and actually make a change, so that it will pay more to make an effort.
i-1636009e826e78ed-97	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Labour! In connection with Sofia Fölster's interpellation, I have some questions for the Minister for Labour to whom the Swedish people deserve answers. Can the Minister of Labour promise not to use more of the tools that previous governments such as Ylva Jo Hansson have used, now that the elections are approaching and the Social Democrats want to polish all the figures so that they are as good as possible? Can Y lva Johansson promise not to repeat that one in ten persons of working age will be retired early? Could it be a promise from the Minister for Labour not to do what the former Social Democratic governments have done? The Minister for Labour makes it easy for himself here by leaning on the boom that prevails in Sweden and in the world. The Minister for Labour is a skilled and educated person. I know she also knows that the Ministry of Finance's own assessments show that her policy has no effect. This is what the Ministry of Finance says very clearly in the budget: Gender unemployment remains unchanged during the term of office. In ordinary Swedish, this means that the policy you pursue does not lead to a single additional job. What happens, however, is that the international boom is driving developments in Sweden. We're very happy about that together. Of the expert authorities evaluating and assessing this, it is clearly attributed to the reforms carried out by the Alliance Government. The job tax deduction created some 130 000 more jobs. The reduction in corporate tax has meant more, better and more profitable investments in Sweden. The austerity that was done to bring order to the contribution chaos that Ylva Johansson's previous governments left behind made it easier to match people into work and create incentives for them to take jobs. The great cleaning that was done in unemployment insurance and health insurance, which put people in the right place and got the right measures, has had an effect. All of this is now hailed Sweden for. It was carried out by Anders Borg and the alliance government. In a boom, Ylva Johansson can of course take credit for this. I do not deny her that, but I would like her to be able to present at least one measure instead of taking credit for the boom and the diligent work of representatives, which also solved the problems that lie ahead of Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I myself live next door to many of those who have now come to Sweden. Because of the policy pursued by Ylva Johansson and the government, we in Solna have had to build many barracks, pavilions or whatever the minister chooses to call them, i.e. temporary housing for new arrivals. We'd be happy to. We are happy to take our share of the responsibility, although we would have thought that a different housing policy would be better, so that all people would have good housing instead. But how are these people going to enter the labour market when Ylva Johansson has not presented a single proposal that according to the Ministry of Finance or according to some single expert authority reduces equilibrium unemployment? How is this to happen when we have a balanced unemployment rate of between 6% and 7%? All the assessors say that government policy does nothing to reduce this. That means it won't work, because boom booms blow over.
i-1636009e826e78ed-103	Mr President, I would like to I would like to be serious in the debate, but sometimes it feels like a huge uphill. Let me begin by saying that the reason why there are now unemployed new arrivals in almost all municipalities is that all municipalities today receive new arrivals. Of course, it affects. Municipalities that previously did not accept new arrivals but only people who had already established themselves more in Sweden had previously perhaps no unemployed foreign born. However, those who have just been granted a residence permit will, of course, be unemployed in the first place. It's not that strange. The important issue is that we can manage to get them to work during the two years of the start-up mission. It's a challenge big enough. That should be the focus. The two years of the start-up mission should lead to people coming to work or training. That's my focus. There's still a lot of work to be done there. Sofia Fölster has asked about incentives to work. Let me first say that I think it is incredibly important that there are strong incentives to work. This is, of course, an important issue. However, the question is: do we have problems with this in Sweden today? The SNS Economic Council submitted its report at the beginning of the year. There it is written like this:a Swedish labour market has little or no reason to focus policy on increased economic incentives to work. The increased income gap between those who work and those who do not work means that the incentives to work are now tangible. A more forward-looking conclusion is that the incentives to work are stronger than ever in Sweden, which indicates that the focus of policy does not need to be on further strengthening the economic drivers of work. This is why the report will not place any particular focus on this either. It is, of course, important that there are incentives, but let us see what real major problems we have today. They look a little different. They are about ways to work for those who are far from the labour market. The challenge is very great. A few years ago, all assessors well believed that unemployment in Sweden, with a refugee reception in 2015, which is the highest that any OECD country has ever had in relation to the population, would increase. That would have been natural. Now, however, we believe that it does not. We believe that the measures we are putting in place will actually lead to many people getting jobs. I am not satisfied with this, but I want to go further. My focus is still that the two years should normally lead to work or education, but one cannot imagine that we have a very big challenge with the many new arrivals. Let us get back to the issue of incentives. I do not rule out the possibility of additional incentives, even if this is not a major problem in the labour market. I am always prepared to look at it, because incentives are important. But it seems that even the Moderates have had their own work to do in terms of incentives. As recently as last autumn, the Moderates presented a budget motion that said that those who have a-k assa and are unemployed should receive lower compensation, and if you get jobs, you will be drawn crown for crown. However, those who are new arrivals and have start-up benefits should be able to retain double benefits, both salary and start-up payments. If I read your latest motion correctly, you have now come to second thoughts and say that you should have the same incentive for both foreign born and those who have unemployment benefit. But I don't know if I've got it right. That is why my question is: do you stand by the proposal that there should be different incentives for new arrivals and for others?
i-1636009e826e78ed-113	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by returning to the fact that I do not think it is enough to blame that we have received many new arrivals in Sweden. You can't blame the alienation on it. On the contrary, I see enormous potential in people coming to Sweden – people with strong driving forces to get to work. That's something we should take care of. But then it must pay them to learn Swedish, educate themselves and get into work, and there must also be jobs to take. This is exactly the challenge we are talking about. You come back to promises that were up in the debate earlier. The promises made in the rather bitter election movement in 2014 have not been entirely in agreement with what the government has actually delivered. About 85,000 different types of jobs or services the government would fix. It was about 32,000 trainee jobs. In the previous party leader debate, one of the party leaders said very wisely: Now more people have been in space than have been given a trainee job. Of all these different measures or jobs that the government was going to fix—it's about 5% of the time the government's mandate has passed—it's about 5% of all these different actions or jobs that the government was going to fix—it's about 5% of the time that the government's mandate has passed. I wouldn't be very proud of that receipt. Then one might ask: Why is it that this has not worked? I'm sure there's a lot of reasons for that. But one of the reasons is that the government has so much focus on finding different types of new jobs, different types of jobs or ways to get people into employment statistics instead of getting to the bottom of the problem: Why is it too bad to hire people in Sweden? Why is it too bad to go from a grant to a job? Arbetsförmedlingen is another interesting authority, which we have discussed before. We are now saying quite clearly that the Employment Service must be closed down. The employment agency does not work and costs four times more than the police do today. Then you have to look at a new way to get people to work. I would also like to come back to this with incentives. The Minister stands here and says: We have no problems with incentives on the labour market in Sweden today – we have no problems. You can then look at the proposal presented by the Moderates, which the government is opposed to. We have presented a grant ceiling of 28 000 SEK a month for a family. You can break it down. There are a number of families who receive more in benefits than that. Let's say you get about $5,000 in grants per family! Let's say two people take a job that gives about $5,000 a month! Maybe they'll get $15,000 left. So they will not benefit from going from subsidies to jobs. This is, of course, a case. There are many different cases. But we can see that there are cases where there is nothing to be gained by going from subsidies to jobs. Then there are quite a few more cases where you earn very little by going from grants to jobs. Then you should know that these are people who are going to learn a whole new language, who may be going to get an education and who have to make a lot of effort to get to work. It's not just stepping out to a job. I mean it should be noticed in your wallet if you make that effort. If you learn a new language, if you are educated and if you make an effort, it should be marked in your wallet. That is why we think that we need to reduce the tax quite substantially for those with the lowest incomes in particular. I hope that the government will vote in favour of it.
i-1636009e826e78ed-120	Mr President, I would like to It is worrying and distressing, especially worrying, that the Minister for Labour is so satisfied in a situation where record numbers of people in Sweden face very big challenges in the labour market. The SNS report to which the Minister himself referred just states this: many people now have record difficulties entering the labour market. Before the Minister for Labour woke up today, many Swedes had already gone to work – preschool teachers, nurses, doctors and police. A lot of people have been up all night working to make our society work. To say that these people do not deserve incentives and that it should not pay to work is ridicule. It is mocking of the whole of society and of the people who are working hard. Ylva Johansson and the government opposed the first job tax credit, the second job tax credit, the third job tax credit, the fourth job tax credit and the fifth job tax credit. They were against the first 500 in the wallet and the second 500 in the wallet. They are still against $1,000 more in their wallets every month for the people who work. Ylva Johansson has always been against driving forces to work, but now notes that there are driving forces. Yes, it is driving forces that have been created by others — she herself has been against them. That's exactly what we're seeing now. It is a satisfied government that takes credit for reforms that previous governments have done but that does nothing about the problems ahead of Sweden. Instead, people are left in ruthless alienation. You should be ashamed of yourself.
i-1636009e826e78ed-124	Mr President, I would like to It is exciting to discuss with Niklas Wykman. Should we be ashamed of the fact that the number of people who make a living through the supply systems is falling sharply? What the Moderates usually call alienation is steadily decreasing. The so-called full-year equivalent is falling. There is a clear downward trend. More and more people are in work. There are 200,000 new jobs since we took office. The employment rate, which was already high, is now even higher. It continues to increase. That is the highest in Europe. It's been for a while. But it keeps rising. We are at incredibly high levels of employment. Should we be ashamed of this? No, certainly not, Mr President. I'm proud of that development. It also means that we are relatively well equipped to face the major challenges ahead. They're very big. It is certainly not that I blame many new arrivals, but I see the problems in the face. We have a record number of new arrivals who are due to enter the labour market in a very short time. This is not a challenge that should be underestimated. It will take a great deal of us to succeed in this, and more action and new action will be needed. I'm not ashamed either that there are few trainee jobs, because the young people have got other jobs. That's excellent. As I said earlier, the most important job policy is not labour market policy, but economic policy, investment, education policy and all that we do to have strong economic growth and to have businesses and others that are growing and who want to invest and hire more. It happens, too. Young people have got jobs without subsidies. That's excellent. In this economic situation, it would have been wrong to lock up many young people in trainee jobs. Now we have to face up to the other challenges we have. It's about the many new arrivals. There is a need for other measures. Then you also have to take those parts. We see that some have very short training. Of course, this is an effort on education, but it can also be about jobs that mean easier access to the labour market. It's about equipping people to take the many available vacancies. No, Sofia Fölster, it was not I who said that the incentives to work are strong. It was SNS' onjunkturrådet who said so. SNS onjunkturråd said at the beginning of the year: A more forward-looking conclusion is that the incentives to work are stronger than ever in Sweden, which suggests that the policy's focus does not need to be on further strengthening the economic drivers of work. ..................................................... That's what SNS says onjunkturråd. I think there's something in it. I think we have other challenges that are even bigger. This applies above all to many new arrivals but also to others who have had difficulty entering the Swedish labour market. And it is about the needs of employers. When I meet employers, it is quite overshadowing that people with the right skills are difficult to find. It is clear that matching and training – these are both shorter and longer educations – are important tools here. But I come back to the issue of incentives. I have a question for the Moderates. I put it to Sofia Fölster, who has one speech left. In your budget exercise last autumn, it was a suggestion that new arrivals would retain the full compensation even if they got a job. You wanted to make that change so that new arrivals could have double compensation. However, if you were not new arrivals but were, as it were, ordinary unemployed, you would not have such a possibility but, on the contrary, have reduced the level of compensation. In your autumn exercise, you thought this would create incentives for work. My question is: why should different groups have completely different incentives to work? When I read your spring motion, I see that the proposal does not seem to exist. Have you changed your mind?
i-1636009e826e78ed-132	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by commenting on the quote from the SNS. It is quite simple, I think, for us in politics to focus on what we read in various reports or on debates in this House. We can lock ourselves in h is or visit various seminars. But the example I gave was a concrete example of a specific family and situation. So it is real in Sweden. It concerns people who wonder if they should go from a grant to a job. Should I spend the extra hours learning Swedish or not? Should I invest in attending this education, which can be quite difficult, or not? You want me to spend all my waking time trying to make an effort to get into work or not? There are concrete examples of families and people who today do not earn a single crown in going from subsidies to jobs. It's reality. It's real. Then it is not enough to quote various experts who believe that this problem does not exist. Go out and meet these people! Go out and visit these municipalities, where there are many people who are unemployed – especially newly arrived – and ask them if they would like to have 500 SEK more in their wallet if they went to a job. I think they would say yes, because that is what this is all about. If you talk to people and ask them if they want their effort to pay off or not, people answer: Yes! That is precisely the problem. It must pay better to make an effort. It must pay better to learn Swedish. It must pay better to look for a job and get to work. Once you get that job, which you've fought, fought, and made an effort to do your utmost for, you also have to make more money when you go to work. That is why we have proposed a tax reduction that would give 500 kroner more in the wallet for those with the lowest income. We have also proposed a grant ceiling, because it should never pay to sit at home on the couch when you could go to work. I very much hope that the government will reconsider, stop proposing to find work and instead make an effort pay.
i-1636009e826e78ed-139	Mr President, I would like to I note that I did not receive an answer to the question of how the Moderates view the incentives. Have you changed your mind about the budget exercise last autumn, when you wanted to have completely different incentives for new arrivals and for other unemployed people? It'll pay to make an effort. Working should pay off – this is extremely important. If there are examples that it doesn't pay off, change it. But in general it pays to work today in Sweden, and that is good. Maybe there are things that need to be adjusted, and then we have to do it-- that's right. However, I would also like to say that if you want it to pay off to work, this is an important reason not to choose to reduce wages. Then you will have problems with working. People who work should also be able to live on their wages. In fact, I don't think it's enough – if someone were to say that it would rather live on subsidies and sit on the couch than take a job, I don't accept that. It's not allowed. We're gonna make demands on people. If you are to have the right to receive support from, for example, Arbetsförmedlingen, you should take assigned work, be at the disposal of the labour market and help to make yourself employable – otherwise you can get rid of your remuneration. I mean, that's right. It is not a question of lids and pocks, but it is actually a compulsion to do so. These requirements exist today for the unemployed, and now we will introduce them for new arrivals too. This is a welcome reform. I hope that Parliament will support this reform here in a few weeks' time, so that we can make clear demands on everyone enrolled in the Employment Service. It is not freely chosen work that applies if you are enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen. It is not a right to receive compensation if you do not participate in the actions deemed necessary to make yourself employable or, for that matter, if you do not take a assigned job. There's no talk of lids and cocks. It is about demands that we should make – sharply – on all people who are enrolled in the Public Employment Service and receive support from society.
i-1636009e826e78ed-147	Mr President, I would like to Sofia Fölster has asked Minister Åsa Regnér if she and the government intend to take any initiative to clear up the unclear legal situation for Swedish children who have been created with the help of surrogate motherhood abroad. She has also asked if Åsa Regnér is prepared to take a legislative initiative to enable couples to take the help of a loved one as an altruistic surrogate mother and, if not, what the reasons are for this. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Parenting is an important part of life for many people, and it is urgent that there are opportunities even for involuntary childless children to have children. Legislation must be designed for different ways of having a child and starting a family. The government is therefore carrying out active and necessary work in this area. The study on increased opportunities for treatment of involuntary infertility has made several proposals concerning the conditions for having a child and starting a family. Among other things, it is proposed to abolish the requirement for a genetic link between the child and the intended parent(s). This would allow couples and single women to undergo assisted fertilization with donated germ cells only in Swedish healthcare. In order to satisfy the desire to have a child, the best interests of the child must always be in focus. Issues of surrogate motherhood raise many complex ethical and legal issues and balance of interests. In this context, the interests of the child and the woman giving birth must weigh heavily. The study on increased opportunities for treatment of involuntary childlessness has been working on the issues for several years and has produced a solid basis. Given the difficult balance that the investigation has had to make, it is understandable that the investigation has landed in not making any proposal to allow surrogate motherhood in Sweden. Through the work of the investigation, we have also received an analysis of the legal problems that may arise for children who have been created through surrogate motherhood abroad. The study has proposed solutions to the problems identified. The report is now being prepared within the Government Office. The aim is to return with a legislative referral during the next spring.
i-1636009e826e78ed-156	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for your answer, although I am rather dissatisfied with it. There are two reasons why I chose to write this interpellation, and I will raise both during the debate. One reason is the right of women to decide over their own body. The second reason is the best interests of the child and the situation of the children present in Sweden today who are added via surrogate motherhood. I will start with the latter reason, because this is not a hypothetical debate about what it would be like if there were children in Sweden who had been created by surrogate motherhood. On the contrary, about 50 children per year are added through surrogate motherhood where Swedish parents have gone abroad to take the help of a surrogate mother. These children are in an unclear legal position when they come home. One is directly stateless and orphan until parenthood is established. This was one of the important points that the investigation was going to get to the bottom of. How do you make it easier for children — for the good of children — so that there are never children who are in some form of statelessness? How do you always make it clear who is the parent and so that the children can come home? When the Minister answers that the investigation has looked at how it will be easier for these children and that the government will come up with proposals on that, I wonder if he has read the investigation. What the investigation lands in is to make it more difficult for parents who have children via surrogate motherhood abroad. The investigation suggests that it will be more difficult for these children to obtain Swedish citizenship and that it will take longer to recognise parenthood. With this proposal, there is even a risk of these children becoming stateless. The proposals that the investigation presents to these children go completely against the European Court of Human Rights' decision on how to treat children who have been created via surrogate motherhood. The European Court of Human Rights believes that this is a question of human rights – of course every child should have a citizenship. Here the investigation has gone in a completely different direction from what was the purpose. I want to take the children's perspective as a starting point. The Minister is here talking about the children's perspective, but why does the government want to make it more difficult for the Swedish children who are added via surrogate motherhood to become Swedish citizens? Why does the government want to label their parents as criminals? And what is the government's view of the situation when children born via surrogate motherhood abroad should be in some kind of unclear, unlawful situation? These children are recognised as Swedish citizens in the country where they are added. Should the Swedish State not recognise them as Swedish citizens? It is completely absurd for me, and that is the consequence of these proposals. I will come back to the very proposal on the big issue of legalising altruistic surrogate motherhood in Sweden. This is a question of much more than the involuntary childless's ability to have children. It's about women's right to control their own body. It is about more people than those who can afford to pay 600 000 crowns abroad being able to take the help of a surrogate mother. It is also about being able to do what is already happening today in a legally secure way in Sweden. But I would first like an answer to what the Minister intends to do to help the children, who are quite many, who are added via surrogate motherhood abroad.
i-1636009e826e78ed-169	Mr President, I would like to The desire to have children is strong with us humans. But it is not the individual's longing that is everything, for the fact that children belong to society is something that benefits all of us. Mr President, I would like to I am at the age when many people, at least here in the Stockholm area, have children and meet every day all the anxiety associated with starting a family. It's not that simple for all people. Many in the female acquaintances, and of course the men with whom they are with, wrestle with questions about pregnancy and family formation. You have anxiety about cancer diseases, a uterus that doesn't work or ovaries that no longer exist. These are, of course, anxiety-charged problems, while there is a strong desire to have children and start a family. Mr President, I would like to I am very confused about why Morgan Johansson and the government are so hostile and reluctant to relieve the anxiety of the 25-year-old woman who suffers from some form of cancer in the genital area. Why should such a person necessarily be condemned to childlessness when there are solutions to such problems? Is it not enough with the anxiety that the disease itself charges? According to the Minister, must it necessarily lead to childlessness? Why condemn this family or this woman to eternal infertility when there are ways in which, with a little help, or quite a lot of help involved, one could in the future form an ordinary family? How can the minister think that the possibility of a young woman with cancer to start a family in the future is a threat in any way? How could it be bad to at least ease this burden on the person in the sickbed with fear of not becoming a mother and of her boyfriend's inability to become a father? Why has the Minister allowed extreme feminists with political agendas beyond the Feminist initiative to hijack the issue, rather than having a more realist envelope and meeting the young people in difficult situations in life that the government today condemns to infertility because it wants to condemn this opportunity with a feminist left-wing ideology? It doesn't make sense. Morgan Johansson! Would the government not be able to open this possibility anyway? This would be a welcome message for many, not least young women, who have strong anxiety about their reproductive health. Why is it so important to condemn these people to childlessness with feminist pretence? I can't believe it.
i-1636009e826e78ed-176	Mr President, I would like to The background is, of course, that there are many ethical considerations that need to be made and more consideration to be taken than just those who want to have children. I understand that involuntary infertility can be a source of great sorrow, because I know that children bring a tremendous joy and a sense of purpose to life, which we might not have imagined before we became parents-- at least that was for me. I also have great respect for those who want to push to help those who find it difficult to have children for various reasons. The Social Democratic Government therefore opened up, for example, the possibility for homosexuals to adopt a number of years ago. It was a change that we made. And just a few years ago, I myself made proposals to open up the possibility for single women to be assisted in conception, also a contentious issue. None of these proposals could have been put forward by a bourgeois government, because the Christian Democrats, as you know, were against. My point, now that you are making politics out of this, is that it is social democratic and red-green governments that have increased the opportunities for those who have had difficulties having children for various reasons. We're the ones who did it, not you. One proposal that I now have on my table is to further extend the possibilities by abolishing the requirement for a genetic link with one of the parents at assisted fertilization. This would mean that you can carry out assisted fertilization with both donated sperm and donated eggs, which could also make it easier for some couples. We are looking carefully at this possibility, and the proposal is contained in the investigation to which I refer. But of course you are not satisfied with this, but you want the right to surrogate motherhood in Sweden, that is, that a woman gives birth to another couple. This issue, too, divides the Alliance, which is why you never made such a proposal when you were in government for eight years. But you set up an investigation to order from the Riksdag, and that is what I have now received. It is your investigator from whom I have received the proposal, no one else. The investigation concluded that surrogate motherhood should not be allowed in Sweden, and there are several arguments for this. One argument, which I would like to begin with, is that consideration must be given not only to the childless couple but also to the child and to the woman who is to give birth, the surrogate mother. As I said, there are a number of ethical problems associated with this. For example, what happens if the woman repents after birth and wants to keep the baby? Should the government then force her to give up the child she has given birth to herself? What happens if the child is sick, perhaps disabled, and the couple do not want to accept it? There have been a number of such cases in India and Thailand, where couples did not want to accept a child born with disabilities, and that is why surrogate motherhood was stopped there. What happens to the woman's right to abortion if she repents? Is she then bound by some sort of agreement not to use the right to abortion? Mr President, I would like to There are obvious risks of women becoming dependent, even if these are altruistic arrangements. In addition, there is always the risk of hidden commercial surrogate motherhood. We have not entirely set our foot down, but a majority of the consultative bodies share the opinion of the inquiry on this particular issue. There are also proposals in the investigation that, contrary to what Sofia Fölster says, facilitate the legal position of children who are abroad, but I can come back to that in the next speech.
i-1636009e826e78ed-189	Mr President, I would like to I am extremely disappointed when the Minister uses the majority of the time in his speech to talk about completely different issues from surrogate motherhood, such as assisted conception and a lot of other issues. He then also spends time talking about whose fault it is that this is not introduced and does not even answer my question about what is happening to the children who, thanks to the investigation if this goes further, will find it more difficult to get Swedish citizenship approved. I am here because I want to debate surrogate motherhood, nothing else, and I hope that we can hold the debate on this very subject. As far as the issue is concerned, I am concerned about women's right to their own body, the right to decide over their own body. In the same way that you have to decide whether to have an abortion or not and whether to have assisted conception or not, you should also decide whether to be surrogate mother or not. That is the essence of this matter. The Minister refers to a lot of ethical reasons that we could not allow surrogate motherhood in Sweden. I would first like to make a few clarifications. India has not banned surrogate motherhood. It's just wrong. You have a regulated surrogate motherhood, which is good. Surrogate motherhood should be regulated, and regulated surrogate motherhood is exactly what we are proposing. We are even proposing an altruistic surrogate motherhood, which is an even more regulated surrogate motherhood. That there would be many regrets and that there is no research on this is not true. There is a lot of research in this area. In the United States, surrogate motherhood has been permitted since the 80s, and there are extremely few cases where the woman has repented. This has happened in less than 1 per mil of the cases, and all were in the 80s before being properly regulated. Now there are no cases of such disputes. With regard to ethical considerations, for example, the State Medical Ethics Council has set its foot and spoken for surrogate motherhood. That's not what the investigation was talking about. It talked about legal problems – legal problems that many other countries have solved and that quite simply. You can protect all parties involved and above all give the woman who bears the child a strong position. Then we come to the basic question. There is research, there are good experiences and, above all, there are many Swedish parents who already have children in this way. Do we want this to continue to happen in other countries, or do we want it to be simpler and even more legally secure in Sweden? Does the government want to stand by the position that it should be politicians who decide on women's bodies instead of women themselves? Let me return to what the Minister said about the fact that, even with altruistic surrogacy, one cannot know whether or not women are under pressure. I think it's a bad view of women to argue that women are not capable of making decisions about their own body. Of course, you make an assessment that ensures that the woman wants this and looks at psychological factors so that you know that the woman is stable. But after that, it must be up to each person himself to decide about his own body. But the Minister says that women are not capable of making decisions about their own body and that if they make the wrong decisions, according to the government, they are under pressure. Do you stand by this position? It is a rather poor view of women's right and the ability to make decisions about their own body.
i-1636009e826e78ed-200	Mr President, I would like to It is worrying that there should always be so many difficult ethical considerations just when it comes to homosexuals' opportunities or rights in society. I can tell the Minister of Justice that life is full of difficult considerations for anyone. Marrying and having children and starting a family are such difficult considerations. In any family constellation, there may be a variety of problems: custody disputes, who should take care of the child, how to distribute different assets or the workload at home. So it is nothing unique for homosexual couples who want to have children, adopt, marry or otherwise live together. This is therefore a problem for all of us people, but for some reason there are some politicians who always choose to highlight these different so-called ethical problems when it comes to LGBT people. Isn't it a little strange, Minister of Justice, when these problems are everywhere all the time? The birth of a child with disabilities is a problem for any family. There are parents who are not capable of taking this responsibility. The difference with surrogate motherhood is that it could be tried before in an orderly process. If the Minister of Justice doesn't know about it: There's a lot of children being made in the usual way by parents who aren't ready. There's no guarantee they're better sent. As the Minister of Justice knows, we have shaped regulations and security for this, and it is perfectly possible to shape regulations and security also for the cases now under discussion. It is just that, Mr President, the Minister of Justice does not want to draft these regulations but wants the ethical problems to remain. It's your responsibility, Morgan Johansson.
i-1636009e826e78ed-207	Mr President, I would like to I reacted to the tone of the debate at the outset, and it has only continued. It is you who are trying to make party politics out of this, not me. I pointed out that if there are any who have moved forward the positions and made it possible for more involuntary childless children to have children, it is we – with the proposal on the right of homosexuals to adopt, with the proposal on assisted reproduction also for single people and with the proposal we are now looking at: to break the requirement for the genetic link in relation to assisted conception. We are the ones who put forward the proposals. When you're in government, you don't do anything. That is my objection when you accuse us of not wanting to do anything on this issue. It's just the opposite. When it comes to surrogate motherhood, we must also take into account those who are at risk of being exploited in different situations. That's exactly what the investigator points to. India and Thailand have tightened up a lot. In Thailand, this has been effectively stopped after a case where twins were born and the couple who had ordered the children only took one because the other was sick. This is hardly the last time you have such a situation. What do you do when the woman repents? Should a court decide that she must be divorced from the child she has given birth? Is that how we're gonna figure it out? What are you gonna do when the baby gets sick and the couple don't want it? What should you do when the woman wants to cancel the pregnancy? Is she entitled to an abortion or not? All these issues and the risk of commercialisation – we can talk about altruism, but there is a risk of hidden commercialisation – are strong arguments against such regulation in Sweden. This was also the opinion of the investigator, and a majority of the referral bodies shared this view. Sofia Fölster asks how to deal with the legal regulation of those who belong in other countries and come here. The investigation looked at it too, and I do not share the view that it would be made more difficult. On the contrary. There is a proposal to facilitate the identification of paternity in these situations. This proposal is also supported by the consultation bodies. We have not put our foot down on this issue for the time being either. We'll be making a legislative referral in a year. However, I do not share the view that the proposals are aimed at making it more difficult for those who go abroad. Basically, I think it is about how you view the risk of people being exploited. We cannot only look at one party's interests, but we must look at everyone's interests. Perhaps it is partly an ideological question. You only look to the stronger party and not to the weaker party in a relationship. However, the governments must always be prepared to have different safeguards to protect a possibly weaker party.
i-1636009e826e78ed-218	Mr President, I would like to The Minister accuses me of being high in tone. Yeah, it's pretty easy for the tone to get high, because this is about real people. It is about children living in Sweden today, children who are at the football club, at school or at preschool. These children's parents now want your fellow party members to label themselves criminals. Because that's what the investigation comes up with. I'm pretty upset, because sometimes it seems the minister hasn't read the investigation. The investigation speaks of a so-called refusal ground where one should be able to refuse to recognise the parenthood of parents who have used a surrogate mother abroad. This goes completely against the clear position of the European Court of Human Rights, yet the investigation opens up to this proposal. If the proposal were to be implemented, these children would actually be stateless and orphans, and their parents would be labeled as criminals. This upsets me very much. This is not a hypothetical scenario, but concerns children and parents who are in Sweden today. Then it is legitimate to have a high tone. All the issues that the Minister mentions about how to solve things legally have been resolved in our neighbouring countries, for example in the UK. The research to which the investigation itself refers therefore lands in allowing surrogate motherhood. Ultimately, you may ask yourself whether you think that women should have the right to decide over their own body or not, whether you think that women are victims who are unable to make decisions – right or wrong, by pressure or not – or if you think that women in the same way as men should be capable and have the opportunity and the right to decide about their own body. Then it is obvious to be in favour of legalizing surrogate motherhood.
i-1636009e826e78ed-225	Mr President, I would like to I think you have to be careful with the words here. Just because you question whether we should have surrogate motherhood in Sweden does not mean that you want to label people as criminals. This is actually the tone that Sofia Fölster has used. We don't want to criminalize anything. There are no such proposals. After all, that is what we are talking about. What the investigation objects to and highlights are the risks of surrogate motherhood and ethical considerations. I think you have to respect that discussion. Sofia Fölster just wants to wave us away here. She says that there is no such thing, but it has been regulated. But what does she know about the problems that may, after all, have arisen? They are real people who are faced with a situation where they may not want to give up their child at the end of the day and where they have doubts about whether they can stop the pregnancy if they regret it. They may face a situation where the child is born with disabilities and the couple hesitate to accept it. Although legally regulated, this leads to difficult ethical considerations and problems. In the end, we have extended the opportunities for those affected by involuntary childlessness in a way that no other governments have done. You did not do anything on that point when you were in the government, Sofia Fölster, but we have done so. I must point out that in the end there is a tried and tested method for those who suffer from involuntary childlessness, and that is adoption. After all, that possibility exists for everyone.
i-1636009e826e78ed-230	Mr President, I would like to Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby has asked the Minister for the Interior if he can explain the reasons for the investigation.Modern criminal law protection for bluelight personnel and other public utility functions was not established until December 2016 and for which reasons a rapid investigation has not been set up. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. It is, of course, unacceptable for those responsible for helping and protecting others to be attacked and prevented from carrying out their duties. I believe that the issue of attacks on blue-light personnel must be taken very seriously, and although there are already various criminal provisions that hit the attacks in question, it must be clear that society has a strict view of these crimes. That is the reason why we are having the penal rules reviewed. However, I can assure Mrs Cecilie-Toftby that the Bluelight investigation, led by the Prosecutor General, was set up as quickly as possible. The commission of the investigation is extensive, and the investigation must be given the time needed to present long-term sustainable criminal law regulation. The government has also taken other measures in this area. In order to give the Police Authority the opportunity to increase the number of employees and thus the police presence at the local level, the Government has also proposed and announced additions to the Agency for a total of just over SEK 2 billion during the period 2017– 2020. The agency is expected to have more than 30 000 employees within a few years who can work together to prevent and combat crime. In addition, it is important that we also develop preventive work. Action is also needed outside the judicial system. The government has therefore launched a new crime prevention programme, Together against crime, which aims to give prevention a more prominent place in society.
i-4Bpuu1vB9RCU9N3MemvbMh	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, for your answer! I think it is good, and I appreciate that we have a common understanding of how important blue light personnel are for everyone's safety in Sweden. It is good that we are aware of the threats and violence to which they are exposed in certain situations. Nor did I expect any other answer from Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. If we now agree that the work situation of bluelight personnel is already unsustainable in certain situations, what is the government doing about this now? As early as February 2016, Minister Anders Ygeman discussed the possibility of reviewing the protection of blue light personnel. It was then several months, to be precise, until 22 December 2016, before an investigation was set up. In order to further delay the process and complicate the situation of blue-light personnel, the investigation shall last for one and a half years. Then you have to make a proposal, and then we know that implementation and the legislative process take their time. The inadequate protection of blue light personnel is a problem here and now. It is unacceptable that they should be exposed to stoning and other attacks. On January 28, this year, ambulance personnel were reported to have been attacked and robbed. This is not sustainable when we all know that we depend on these people for life to be saved. Because they save lives. It is the government's mission to ensure that they have adequate protection so that they can carry out their duties without fear of their own health and protection. I therefore wonder, and that is also why I put my interpellation to Morgan Johansson : Why has the investigation A modern criminal law protection for bluelight personnel and other societal functions not been established before? After all, it took nine months – an entire pregnancy, referring to surrogate motherhood – from the time Ygeman went out and said that this is important and urgent until something happened. A year and a half to investigate is too long to wait for those who are being threatened today. I wonder: Is it really Morgan Johansson's interpretation here and now that the investigation was set up as quickly as possible?
i-1636009e826e78ed-242	Mr President, I would like to First of all, we are determined to break the crime trend in the vulnerable residential areas a. That is why we are taking a wide range of measures to this end. We need to lock up the most criminally active individuals. At the same time, we must go in with social efforts and break the new recruitment to the criminal gangs. That's how you get to it. Everyone has the right to feel safe, no matter where you live. In the two and a half years that we have been working in the Ministry of Justice, we have come forward with a large number of proposals to get there: punitive measures against the most serious drug offences and the serious violent crimes, and extended the possibilities for the confiscation of property for those who make money out of crime. We will proceed with further punitive measures in the area of weapons offences, for example, to allow immediate arrest and secret coercive measures. We'll go with more cops. During the time we have worked, we have drawn together resources and concentrated them in the vulnerable neighbourhoods. There have been 300 more police officers in the 14 most vulnerable residential areas in recent years alone. As Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby knows for sure, we are making further efforts on the police. We have said from the Socialist side that we want 10 000 more police workers by 2024. We want to open two new police training courses, in West Sweden and in Malmö. We are taking forward a national crime prevention programme, the first in 20 years. We are strengthening social care for children and young people in order to put in place social services for those young people who may be in trouble. We are prepared to move forward with increased camera surveillance in the most crime-prone locations. We've arranged for the review of attacks on blue light personnel. I think this is an important signal of how seriously we view this type of attack. And we're not just looking at the staff. The Moderates raised the point that they want to look at attacks on individuals, such as policemen or ambulance drivers, but we broaden it and say that we want to take a greater hold. Attacks on infrastructure and property, such as police cars, fire stations, social offices, service dogs and police horses, are also included in the investigation mission. This applies not only to blue-light staff but also to other professions that are making an important contribution and are at risk of being threatened. Our firm view is that in the case of this type of attack, we should not put our fingers in the middle but take a firm look at these attacks. Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby says this took too long. We set up this investigation last year. She writes that this shows that there is no real will on the part of the government to protect blue-light personnel, that is, because we did not set up this investigation earlier. It is a harsh criticism of Beatrice Ask, who was Minister of Justice for eight years. Because this type of attack wasn't unknown to the old government, was it? She was Minister of Justice for eight years without setting up such an investigation. Then comes Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby and complains about us because it took us a year to add it. What if you'd done a little more while you were in the government? Perhaps you would have come out a little better in the 2014 elections. I and the Minister for the Interior have submitted over 100 proposals to Parliament since we took office. Everyone's been through the Riksdag. It is a higher pace of reform than any other government has been able to demonstrate in this area. Now we're gonna get through this, too.
i-1636009e826e78ed-254	Mr President, I would like to This is a complex issue. I would like to congratulate Morgan Johansson on having received all his proposals in Parliament. Perhaps it would have been nice if he had also told us how many announcements have been made about these propositions. But that is a completely different question. So this is a complex issue, and it is a major investigation that the government has set up. And, of course, this must be thoroughly investigated. But I have doubts as to whether those who are exposed to threats and violence share the Minister of Justice's interpretation of what is urgent. I believe that the expectations that something will happen now were very much created by Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, Minister for the Interior Anders Ygeman and the Minister for Justice himself during last summer, including during the Almedal week when Stefan Löfven went out and said that the protection of those who protect us must be strengthened and that it is urgent to bring this about as quickly as possible. It goes without saying that frustration and disappointment arise when one perceives that one has received a promise but when the results fail. It took, as I said, nine months to start the investigation. The investigation will work for a year and a half. I will admit that I really believe that the government is taking this issue seriously. But I don't think you think it's urgent enough. If the government really thought this was an urgent matter, why can't you quickly investigate it? I understand that the entire investigation is very extensive and complex. But there are elements in it that could be quickly investigated. The government made sure that the issue of cameraed drones, which is very much about our integrity, was quickly investigated to satisfy the business community. It is a major problem that today it is not considered violence against officials to throw stones at ambulance staff and to attack civil protection. According to the law, it counts today as ordinary assault. Violence against civil servants has a stronger position in our legislation than ordinary abuse. Since the government, in order to satisfy the business community, quickly investigated the issue of camera-enabled drones, it should in any case reasonably be possible to break out precisely the issue of criminalisation of attacks on blow-light personnel and ensure that it is considered to be violence against civil servants. That would have been a very clear signal, even if the investigation as a whole takes its time. It must be clear what we all think about this. In fact, I think we all agree on the harmfulness of the attacks on our blue-light staff. I would appreciate it if the government could stop talking and actually do something. I therefore have a direct question: what reasons does Morgan Johansson have for not setting up a rapid investigation into the fact that attacks on our bluelight personnel should be considered violence against officials?
i-1636009e826e78ed-262	Mr President, I would like to Once again, there's an investigation in place. The Attorney General is working on it. But it sounds at Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby almost as if attacking police officers, ambulance drivers or social services personnel is a criminal offence today. She's talking about criminalization. It is criminal to throw stones at those who carry out social tasks. It's criminal to attack them in different ways. What we are talking about is a penalty in these situations. Of course we will deliver that. M a do not spread the image that it would be some kind of criminal activity to behave in that way. It's dangerous to spread that image. As I said, we have tabled over 100 proposals. I do not think anyone can claim that the Ministry of Justice has not taken on these tasks since we took office with a completely different pace of reform from that of the old government. At the same time, care must be taken to ensure that things are done properly. If you do not investigate and produce legislation that then really works, then you will not get any convicted in the courts. It will be difficult for the courts to actually apply the legal provisions that we want. So you have to do things the right way and in a way that actually holds. It doesn't matter how much punishment we have if we don't catch any criminals. That is why the initiative on the police, among other things, is absolutely crucial. I said in my last speech that we have now concentrated police resources on precisely the vulnerable residential areas that are at stake – over 300 police officers to these 14 areas. Fortunately, we also see that things are starting to happen. I don't know if Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby noticed a feature in SVT about Bishopsgården last week. The police have made a power collection in the Bishop's yard. But municipal efforts have also been made, and voluntary forces have helped. Now they have managed to get a completely different development in this neighborhood, where people feel much more secure. The most active individuals have been caged, and they have also invested in social efforts to break new recruits for the criminal gangs. Punishment is one thing. It's an important signal from society. But you should not think that you will solve these problems if you only work with these instruments, it is about police resources and preventive work to manage this. As I said, one is always surprised when the Moderates in opposition suddenly realize what we Social Democrats are supposed to do, while they are almost never prepared to push things forward for themselves when they are in a position of government. Let me give you an example. The Moderates talk a lot about cops and police training to get more cops. But you've never started another police training. We had the police training in Stockholm earlier. Then it was we who started police training in Växjö. We started the police training in Umeå. And from a social democratic point of view, we now go forward and say that we will start a police training course in Malmö and one in West Sweden. It's easy to figure things out in opposition. But once you're in government, you won't deliver. I and the Minister for the Interior have presented more than 100 proposals and have got everyone through the Riksdag. Of course there have been announcements. However, the fact that we have put forward so many proposals that we have received in Parliament shows more clearly than anything else that we are driving the pace of reform in this regard, and not you.
i-1636009e826e78ed-275	Mr President, I would like to I didn't say that violence against bluelight personnel is not a criminal offence. I said it counts as ordinary assault. However, I would like this to be seen as violence against officials, where today is already a completely different scale of punishment. Morgan Johansson chooses to raise the issue of the police. It's a good thing you want more police training. But we see today that many police officers stop. The police themselves say that their salary situation needs to be reviewed. In fact, it is the Moderates who have proposals to raise the salaries of the police, not the Social Democrats. Mr President, I would like to I shall return to what I wanted to debate here today, namely the need for greater protection for blue light personnel. There are some things that we just expect to work in a modern society. I used to work on energy policy, and you expect the lights to turn on when you turn the switch and the water flows out of the tap. And we expect the ambulance staff and emergency services to be there for us on the day we need them. They are pillars that enable us to feel safe and secure in our daily lives, and these are things we sometimes take for granted. It is therefore our duty, as we stand here, to be clear how important we think these people are and how important we think it is for them to be given greater protection as quickly as possible. Let the investigation as a whole take its time, but try to break out parts of it so that these people feel that what you were saying in Almedalen last summer was actually real! It is our duty to ensure that the protection of the men and women who are there for us is sufficient, and it is not today. I would really like to have received a different answer from Morgan Johansson than I did today. Although Morgan Johansson is not willing to promise anything else, I sincerely hope that the investigation will deliver – and that it will certainly not be delayed.
i-1636009e826e78ed-280	Mr President, I would like to You can be absolutely sure that we will deliver what we promise, Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby. We usually do, and we also deliver things that you did nothing about. When we say that we should do one thing, we also make sure to do it. But it must be done properly, and it must be legislation that can actually be used in the courts. We also took a broader approach, as I pointed out. This applies not only to attacks on individuals, so to speak, but also to property. This also applies not only to the bluelight staff themselves, but perhaps also to social security or home help personnel, who may be at risk of being attacked in such a situation. We have therefore made it broader than you originally requested, but we will deliver. We usually do what we say. Then Cecilie Cecilie-Toftby, when she tries to defend what she did during her eight years when it comes to the police, says that it is not enough just to invest in police training in Sweden, but to raise police salaries. Neither did you for eight years, Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby. As I said, it is good to come up now in opposition with proposals that they did not deliver during their eight years. You'll figure it out now. I just pointed out that when it comes to police training, which is now much talked about, you have moderates—even though you have been running for a great number of years—never opened a new police training course. It is we who have done so, at every such time. We are now expanding police operations. For both civilian employees and police officers, there will be two large intakes for police training, one in January/February and one in autumn, so that we can increase the number of police officers but also overall the number of civilian employees. We will also deliver in terms of the penalties that are being demanded.
i-1636009e826e78ed-284	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson has asked me why account is taken of the earlier development of business productivity but not of the cost development in the public sector in the analysis of the sustainability of fiscal policy in the spring bill. She also wonders how I see welfare financed by work while technological developments can reduce the number of jobs. The assessment of the sustainability of fiscal policy is primarily an analysis of whether current public welfare systems and their financing can cope with expected demographic changes and other factors. The assessment in the spring proposal shows that today's quality can continue to be maintained in the future, including demographic changes. This is the reference scenario described. The financing of welfare depends on how many people are employed and how much they work. Since the government took office, labour market developments have improved by 200 000 more people employed, while government policies have strengthened public finances. Care should also be taken to assess the future impact of technological developments on employment. In the long term, the number of hours worked is determined by the number of people who can and want to work, and a policy that strengthens future labour supply is therefore important. We will welcome and take advantage of technological development and conduct a policy that contributes to Sweden being at the forefront of development in the future. The Government's policy aims at a high level of employment through well-functioning education systems and active labour market policies.
i-1636009e826e78ed-288	Mr President, I would like to At first, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers, although unfortunately they did not answer the questions I asked. The intervention is basically about the chapter of the spring budget dealing with the long-term sustainability of fiscal policy. It is a very interesting chapter that, based on some assumptions, shows how the Swedish economy develops by 2030 and by 2100 respectively, based on a reference scenario based on certain assumptions. In this context, various alternative scenarios based on other assumptions have been developed and provide a good basis for discussion. In the reference scenario it looks like Sweden has a long-term sustainable fiscal policy, but unfortunately I question some of the assumptions. It is with some satisfaction that I see that the government has at least initially adapted one of the alternative scenarios following our debate last year on the same chapter. Then I could quote the criticisms submitted by the Swedish Municipalities and Regions and the Swedish Insurance respectively to the Long-term investigation, where one chooses to underestimate the cost development in the public sector compared to what it looked like historically when one chooses to start from an unchanged level of ambition. Now the government has chosen to at least develop an alternative scenario where consumption increases by 0.5 per cent per year in addition to demographic needs, i.e. as it has been on average in the years 2000–2015. Not surprisingly, Swedish fiscal policy is not sustainable at all, but in the future would result in a sharp deterioration of the financial position. Nevertheless, it should be borne in mind that 0.5% of the average annual increase over 15 years is low compared to what it has been like since the 1950s, which probably has to do with the financial crisis. Earlier 15 to 20-year intervals have seen between 0.9 per cent and 4% higher costs than if public costs had followed age trends. The baseline scenario is based only on the development of age, without taking into account the way it has looked in the past. Moreover, the Minister of Finance never answered why account has been taken of the productivity of the business sector but not of the actual evolution of public costs. In combination with the fact that the reference scenario assumes that state grants to municipalities and county councils are continuously adjusted according to the expenditure for the welfare services they are responsible for, which is optimistic compared to what it looks like in reality, it means that it is a pure framework joy calculation that is presented in the spring bill reference scenario. This is serious, because it involves a risk. As the government says:simplifying the necessary changes to the future risks getting worse, and making the change work more difficult, so that more comprehensive measures will have to be implemented at a later stage and often in less orderly forms. ..................................................... This means that we are destroying responsibility and costs on future generations – something that is reinforced by other things that the government already knows but does nothing about, such as the situation of future pensioners. According to the long-term study, in 2060 approximately 50 per cent of female pensioners would have low economic standards, compared to around 20 per cent today. Why does the government not ensure that the reference scenario for fiscal policy is as realistic as possible, so that relevant reforms can be developed to ensure the long-term sustainability of fiscal policy?
i-1636009e826e78ed-296	Mr President, I would like to The projections made for the long-term sustainability of fiscal policy are based on the current levels of ambition in welfare. It counts on how it will develop in the future and whether it is sustainable in the long term. This is exactly the same method used when Anette Åkesson's party ruled at the Ministry of Finance. It is a method that has been used for a long time, and it seems that when the Moderates were in government they thought it was a good method to use. We have not changed the method used during the time of the Moderates. Anette Åkesson argues that this is not a long-term sustainable development of public finances. It is not only the government that says that development is sustainable in the long term; the Council of Finance Policy, the Institute of Economic Affairs and the European Commission also assess that we have sustainable public finances in the long term. If, on the other hand, we want to increase the commitment to welfare, we obviously need to take further action. If you want to increase the commitment, it is one way or another to increase tax revenue, for example by more people working. It is very positive that, compared to when the government took office, we now have 200 000 more people in work. That's a good way to raise revenue. Tax increases can, of course, also be discussed, as well as increased efficiency in the public sector. Re-priorities can also be made in the public commitment. One thing that is very clear is that the overall tax cuts of SEK 70 billion now proposed by the Alliance would not secure public finances in the long term or strengthen their sustainability in the long term.
i-1636009e826e78ed-300	Mr President, I would like to That's no excuse for the Minister of Finance to blame the Alliance. Magdalena Andersson has been in charge for almost three years. The European Commission's figures on the long-term sustainability of fiscal policy are obviously positive. We have good conditions in Sweden, with many working women and relatively high birth rates. But the figures are significantly worse than those presented by the government. My second question concerned the impact of the labour market on long-term fiscal policy. The number of jobs and employed, but above all the number of hours worked, is what has a direct impact on the financing of welfare, at least on the basis of what we are thinking today. And that's where the government is lucky. It benefits from the effects of the reforms of the alliance government, but also from the current boom combined with low interest rates. The Minister for Finance says that a policy that strengthens future labour supply is important. I can certainly agree with that. But words and actions are not connected, as often happens with Social Democrats. The government has taken measures with precision that reduce the conditions for increasing the number of hours worked: increased employers' contributions for the elderly, increased marginal taxes for large groups, deteriorating conditions for RUT and ROT, and social security reform, to name but a few. The fact that large companies are considering moving their head offices from Sweden risks further affecting Swedish jobs and tax revenues. The same applies to uncertainty as to how corporate taxation will develop internationally and where the tax will be paid. But the government doesn't seem to care. With tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship of up to now 40 billion – and a further 20 billion proposed – the business environment in Sweden is further threatened and thus the emergence of jobs and tax revenues. Fortunately, some companies also relocate their activities from low-tax countries. Although this will not necessarily increase the number of jobs, it may still have advantages for Sweden. The reason for this is technological development. That brings me back to the tenth chapter of the spring bill. There is no scenario that looks at the importance of digitalisation and automation for the long-term sustainability of fiscal policy up to the year 2100. The variation in the projections for the proportion of jobs that are at risk of disappearing is between 10 and 50 per cent. This should thus have a major impact on tax revenues in the long term, with the current financing model. The fact that the government is reducing the conditions for the jobs that exist and, at the same time, is putting its head in the sand when it comes to how we are going to deal with the disappearance of jobs due to technological developments is serious. Of course we should acknowledge the technical progress. It's very exciting that's happening. Innovations will also be a prerequisite for coping with welfare in the future. But that is no excuse for not taking into account in at least any scenario the effects they may have. Then let us know that Chapter 10 compares the so-called reference scenario with eight alternative scenarios, four where fiscal sustainability improves and four where they deteriorate. It looks at the consequences of people working longer, of international births being established on the labour market more quickly, of improving the health situation, of increasing public sector productivity by 0.1 per cent per year, of the impact of the new surplus target, of more leisure time, and of allowing demographic needs to control already in 2018–2020 – in addition to what has been mentioned earlier, that the increases in ambition that they have seen in the last 15 years, which are lower than in the previous 50 years, are 0.5 per cent higher than the demographic needs. Had there not been room in the spring bill's chapter on the long-term sustainability of fiscal policy for a scenario with effects, both positive and negative, of technological innovations and their impact on jobs and tax revenues, something that we will of course experience over the next 80 years?
i-1636009e826e78ed-308	Mr President, I would like to Of course, you can always discuss exactly what scenarios to have in a spring bill. There are certainly a variety of scenarios that could be interesting to include. I am, of course, happy to have a continued dialogue with the Riksdag about which scenarios the Riksdag might find relevant and interesting to take part in from the Ministry of Finance. We should not have to have any conflict about that. Instead, the conflict applies entirely to how we view social development. It's interesting to listen to Anette Åkesson. On the one hand, she is concerned about the long-term financing of welfare. On the other hand, she is very critical of the government, which has taken responsibility for the long-term financing of welfare. That's what we've been doing since we came into government. We came in after what the Moderates left behind: large deficits in public finances, high unemployment, high youth unemployment, and great breaks in welfare. The school results had fallen. There was a great housing shortage, and young people were not able to leave home. Since we stepped in, we've been dealing with this. We have brought order to public finances. 200,000 more people have a job to go to. Youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. The school results have now finally turned around, and we hope that this is a long-term trend, a work victory for our students, teachers and principals. We have also taken great responsibility for welfare. We have increased the resources for welfare by 30 billion over these two-and-a-half years, of which 10 billion have been directed to school, because we know how important it is for long-term growth that all children receive the support they need in school, learn what they need in school and can go further into working life. Housing construction is on the increase. The government's investment aid, especially for low-rent rentals, enables more young people to feel the amazing feeling of putting the key in their first home. In terms of technological development, one can be a development optimist or a development pessimist. I'm a development optimist. I think it is a good thing that we have a strong technological development and a robotisation. I see great opportunities here to create new jobs and to remove many of the monotonous jobs that are tearing people out in factories today. At technology shifts, there is always a discussion about whether jobs will disappear. This discussion has been conducted continuously in new technological developments since Spinning Jenny arrived. Will the jobs now disappear? Will we have something to live on? But so far in the development of mankind, man's creativity has always taken over. New things have been found to work with, and I believe that we will continue to do so in the future.
i-1636009e826e78ed-312	Mr President, I would like to I'm also a technical optimist. You should think of it as a tip from me to include this in a scenario for the next spring bill. I am seriously concerned about the future financing of welfare. I am particularly concerned because I saw the results of the reforms of the Alliance Government, which helped considerably. The Minister of Finance normally drives a mantra in his closing speech, which I cannot answer: firstly, that the Social Democrats tend to clean up state finances after the Moderates, and secondly, that Moderates lower taxes instead of investing in welfare. I therefore take the opportunity of prevention to point out that the 1990s crisis was caused by the Social Democrats and that the job tax deductions, which the current government has maintained, contributed to the creation of 360 000 jobs, despite the financial crisis and recession. Municipalities and county councils received SEK 140 billion in increased tax revenues to the well-being of the years 2007–2014 – revenues that increased each year, despite the financial crisis. We have debated this before. Unfortunately, the current government is working in a way that will not make it easier for municipalities and county councils. These are already affected. Costs are passed on from the state to municipalities by, for example, Försäkringskassan and the Finnish Immigration Service. But the government's policy also affects long-term fiscal policy and will hit the very welfare activities that the Swedes appreciate. Of course, long-term forecasts are uncertain, but when one chooses not to use assumptions that are as accurate as possible regarding the cost development and technical development of the public sector, the basis for the decision becomes worse than it would have to be. In this way, the government is in danger of happening exactly what it says it wants to avoid, namely that the necessary changes will be postponed to the future. I would therefore like to thank you for the debate.
i-1636009e826e78ed-317	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson says that the resources for municipalities and county councils increased during the alliance government. This is because municipalities and county councils increased the tax. You had to do it. What was done by the government was to lower the tax. This did not give municipalities and county councils the resources they needed to manage their operations. Instead, they had to raise the tax there. What was the result? Increases in marginal taxes. That's the truth of the alliance government. There is an irony that Anette Åkesson is very concerned about the long-term finances of the public sector. I have great respect for the fact that one can feel that worry if one is moderate. When we look at the Alliance's collective spring movements, we can see what's coming out of there. That's 70 billion in tax cuts. The aim is to reduce the tax by another 70 billion. It is clear that we do not find long-term funding for welfare there. It is about ensuring that municipalities and county councils have the necessary resources. This is exactly where the dividing line will stand all the way to the elections. Should we make sure that we expand and strengthen our common welfare, or should we lower taxes most for those who earn the most? Here there is a clear policy of tax benches from the opposition where not only the alliance parties but also the Swedish democrats want to carry out very extensive tax cuts. In practice, the Swedish democrats have been involved in the entire Alliance's tax-merger policy. It would lower taxes most for those who earn the most but affect our children in school, the children in preschool and our elderly in our retirement homes. This is where the discussion will stand all the way to the elections: tax cuts or welfare.
i-1636009e826e78ed-321	Mr President, I would like to Cecile Tenfjord-Toftby has asked me whether I intend to implement tax changes that make it easier for jobs and businesses. After the previous government's terms of office, we saw a situation of large government deficits. The government has therefore changed its policy from unfunded tax cuts to investments and a stronger welfare. It has produced results. Since the government took office, unemployment has fallen by 1 percentage point and employment has increased by some 200 000 people. Sixty-seven per cent of the employment growth was recorded among foreign born children. The Government's industrial policy aims to make it easier for companies to develop and operate. In order to facilitate the recruitment and retention of key employees by small start-ups, the government proposes some relief in the taxation of employee stock options. The government has also introduced growth support to get more companies to dare to take the step of hiring their first employee. For an individual trader, the aid involves a reduction in employers' contributions during the first 12 months of the remuneration of the first employee. In a legislative referral decided yesterday by the Government, it is proposed to extend the support to certain limited companies and partnerships. In 2016 and 2017, the Government has also extended the RUT deduction to certain gardening services, floating services, IT services and the repair and maintenance of household appliances. I would also like to point out that it is more than taxes that affect the conditions and competitiveness of companies. According to the latest report by the World Economic Forum, Sweden has improved its competitiveness and climbed from a ninth place to a sixth place on the ranking of 138 countries. In this autumn's budget, the government will come back with all the tax proposals. I do not want to anticipate that process.
i-1636009e826e78ed-326	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. In a number of debates with Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, the Minister of Finance has expressed views that it is how to use tax revenue that is important rather than how to design taxes. It is important to make the best use of taxpayers' money. However, one problem with poorly designed taxes is that they hit jobs and discourage entrepreneurship. There is something that, in turn, affects welfare, no matter how high taxes you choose to charge. If fewer people work, the tax base will be eroded. The road to jobs and growing companies will be much more difficult if the Red-Green Government and the Finance Minister ignore the importance of tax design. Mr President, I would like to In fact, unemployment is now increasing in Sweden for the first time in many years, even though there is a burning boom. Of course, as we have heard earlier in debates today, we can explain that we have a very large migration of refugees in Sweden. That explains the situation. But that doesn't tell us how the government intends to bring about a solution. In her previous debate with Annette Åkesson, the Minister for Finance said that the number of unemployed people is now falling in Sweden and that the employment rate is increasing. It's a boom. I would also like to remind the Minister for Finance that when they took over, Sweden had the EU's highest employment rate, despite the fact that we have been through a recession and financial crisis which the other countries of Europe and the world have also undergone. We now need to have an active business policy that benefits the growth of more jobs in Sweden. It is precisely because we have a situation with a lot of people going into the Swedish labour market. We have not heard much about how the government intends to break the great exclusion of the labour market. We have heard explanations as to why it looks like it does but not how they intend to get out of it. A tool that can be used to stimulate growth of jobs and businesses is to have a tax system that rewards enterprise and the willingness to work and not a tax system that punishes entrepreneurs who want to work the extra hour or hire a few more in their staff. That is why I wonder: does the red government have any ambitions at all in the area of taxation? This is not about subsidies or subsidies. It is about how to make it easier for companies in the tax area, so that they want and can see an opportunity to grow and to hire more people here in Sweden. That's what I wanted answers to by Magdalena Andersson with my interpellation, but I didn't get that. Now I am making another attempt: does the Minister of Finance intend to implement tax changes that make it easier rather than more difficult for jobs and businesses?
i-1636009e826e78ed-334	Mr President, I would like to Do we have any ambitions at all? That's what my interpellation response was about. I told you about the tax changes the government has made. I've also told you about the things that are now out for a referral. I think Cecilie Cecilie-Toftby can also respect what is to be included in the budget proposal. It is important to have the overall conditions. One cannot promise tax cuts, as moderates themselves are happy to do, before one is sure that one has the revenue that makes it possible. Otherwise, there is a risk that large deficits in public finances will end, as has happened every time the Moderates have been in a government. Of course, it is important how the tax system is designed. I always say that. It is important that the tax system is well designed. But it is also important how to use the tax money. If you have a well-designed tax system and make good use of tax money, all in all you can achieve higher growth and higher employment than if you have low taxes and low levels of the joint commitment. With a well-designed tax system with money to stimulate work and labour supply, the Nordic model shows how to achieve both high employment and high growth while having high tax levels and high ambitions in welfare. We have been standing here for several years debating with moderates who say that with the terrible tax policy of the government, companies will not want to hire and people will not want to work anymore. I can only say that after two and a half years we see 200 000 more people working. We see the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years. We see that unemployment has fallen, and we see that long-term unemployment is falling. At the same time, when many people who have applied for asylum in Sweden have received asylum and are now entering the labour market, it will be a group where it will take a little longer before they enter the labour market. This will mean that unemployment will not fall as it would otherwise have. Here it is important that we have a policy for these people to get out to work. There, the government has taken a series of measures to make it easier for those people in terms of both education and labour market policy and also to abolish the custody allowance. We are now redeploying parental insurance so that more women can quickly enter working life.
i-1636009e826e78ed-341	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Magdalena Andersson does not want to promise any tax relief. It's not exactly this government's specialty. The tax investigations that Magdalena refers to here have not directly created any cheering atmosphere out there among the Swedish companies. I will come back to that later in my speech. I would like to quote parts of Magdalena Andersson's answer to me: a government's industrial policy aims to make it easier for companies to develop and operate their business. If that is the government's ambition, you have not succeeded very well. In February came a report from the Business Council, which reviews not only tax rules but all rules. That is why it is good that Minister Damberg has now also entered the Chamber. The report could not have been very funny reading for the Red Green Government. It shows very clearly that entrepreneurs themselves feel that it has become much more complicated to run companies in Sweden in the past year. 32 per cent of companies in Sweden believe that it has become more difficult to run companies today compared to a year ago. I say this to stress that this is not about the time of the alliance government in power, but about the time of the red-green government in power. Thus, 32 percent feel that it has become much more difficult. You can also read that 2 per cent think it has become easier to be an entrepreneur in Sweden. You can read on in the report, which shows that 78 percent have little or no confidence in the government's rule work. The entrepreneurs thus do not at all share Magdalena Andersson's view that it has become a better business environment in Sweden. Put on top of that the red-green government's tax shock of 40 billion, which affects, among other things, the companies that the government claims to want to stimulate. And that does not stop there: let us return to Magdalena's promised tax changes with deteriorating 3:12 rules, which make it more expensive for small businesses, air taxes, an announced mileage tax and a bank tax that the government is trying to hide by calling it a fee. Is it strange that there is a debate about whether it is worthwhile for companies to stay in Sweden at all? I got an email from the base industries this week. They say: We constantly hear in the political debate that people talk about Swedish companies. It is clear that Swedish companies, owned by Swedes, can feel that they want to be in Sweden precisely because it is Sweden. But the ownership structure is changing. We now have companies in Sweden owned by owners abroad, who do not have this sense of loyalty to Sweden. Therefore, it is particularly important – and it becomes more important every day – that Sweden is perceived as an attractive country to operate in. Increased taxes and increased regulatory burdens can not possibly be the government's idea of how to make it easier for entrepreneurs to develop and run their businesses, can they? It seems that Magdalena Andersson and Sweden's entrepreneurs live in completely different worlds. Either the government has ended up completely wrong with its policies or it is the companies that simply do not understand what the government has actually done for them. What does Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson think is the explanation for this distance between the government's view and the views of the business community?
i-1636009e826e78ed-350	Mr President, I would like to When I meet entrepreneurs, there are usually three things that they raise when you ask what their problems are and what it is that prevents them from expanding. It is usually the same three things: it is difficult to find the right skills, you have problems with the infrastructure and you have problems with housing if you want to hire people. All of these three issues are addressed by the government, and there are not three issues that can be resolved with the moderate concept of tax reduction. We make sure to expand the knowledge boost, so that more people have the opportunity to get the education that companies are asking for. Many companies today say that they cannot expand because they lack the right skills. Clearly, the moderate government did not equip people for the boom of the years of crisis. That is why we are now seeing the acute shortage of labour. More money would have been spent on training for those who were unemployed during the crisis. Now we have made sure to expand a knowledge boost so that 50 000 more people this year have the opportunity to get this education, which is important for getting jobs but also important for the business community to be able to hire. We have invested heavily in housing construction. We now have a record housing building. It is important for people to be able to move to where the jobs are. It is a major problem, not least for young people, to be able to move to work and education or to leave home at all. The government's investment aid enables cheap rental apartments, so that more young people can have the opportunity to have the amazing feeling of putting the key in the door to their first home. We have investment in infrastructure. It is another neglected area and a major problem for Swedish industry and the Swedish business community. The government has made substantial investments in rail maintenance and has also put out an ambitious plan for the coming years in the ambitious infrastructure bill. As has been said, Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby often says that government policy will lead to fewer people wanting to train, fewer people wanting to work and companies not wanting to hire. But what we see is that 200 000 more people have a job to go to. 114 000 of these jobs come from the private sector. They hire so that it's lovely. In addition, there are 100,000 job vacancies that are difficult to fill due to a lack of skills. We see in the latest statistics that foreign investment in Sweden has tripled. Industrial investment is the worst since the financial crisis. It is therefore clear that there is faith in the future in Swedish business. Perhaps we can enjoy this together.
i-1636009e826e78ed-357	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I am delighted with the success of Swedish business. I really do. But it seems that Magdalena Andersson and I are not participating in the same debate. I would very much like to hear from Magdalena Andersson what other tax rulings the government has for the Swedish companies than 3:12 rules, airline tax, announced mileage tax and a hidden bank tax. That's 40 billion dollars in tax increases, and then these aren't included. This is not a good signal to send out to the Swedish companies. The Swedish companies do not have very high confidence in the Swedish government's industrial policy right now. That Magdalena Andersson chooses to attack me and the former alliance government instead of talking about her own tax policy, we are getting used to at this point in time. I can well think that the government's unwillingness to talk about its own tax policy is to run away from its responsibilities. You're in the government right now. It is you who will explain how you intend to solve the major challenges that Sweden faces with, among other things, a large and growing exclusion in the labour market. It is true that we have unemployment that has been falling for some time and that we have a higher employment rate. But thank the boom for that! Under the auspices of the Alliance, Sweden had the EU's highest employment rate despite the financial crisis and recession. At least I had hoped for some clearer answers, but I did not get them this time either. I guess I can live with that in the usual order. But I think, Mr President, that Magdalena Andersson owes Sweden's entrepreneurs an explanation of how the government's policy has made it easier to run and develop companies in Sweden. As I have said before, they do not share the view of the Minister for Finance.
i-1636009e826e78ed-361	Mr President, I would like to I'm trying to answer Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby's questions, but she doesn't think she gets any answers. Perhaps it is because she does not get exactly the answers she wants, namely the moderate answers that regardless of the question are: a large tax cut, preferably for those who earn the most. The government is pursuing a broader policy than that. Many of the problems that entrepreneurs raise with me when I meet them cannot be solved by tax cuts. It is not a tax reduction that causes you to find an engineer, a assistant nurse or a sheet metal worker. There we need to make an educational effort. It is not tax cuts that remove the holes from the gravel road or that it is possible to transport rail freight in a safer way. It is not tax cuts that allow rents to be built, so that young people can move to where jobs grow. A different and broader policy is needed here. Of course, we should have a well-designed tax system. The government has taken several steps to ensure that we have proper finances, and in this way we have increased tax revenues. We have also implemented important targeted tax reductions against companies, including small companies that make their first jobs. Furthermore, we have extended the RUT deduction and now have a proposal on employee stock options, which is very much in demand in the business community. We must have policies that stick together so that we can ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances. That the government's coherent policy is good for competitiveness in Sweden is not just me who says. The World Economic Forum has raised Sweden's ranking from the ninth place in force when the Moderates led the government to the sixth place in force today. In other words, outside viewers make the assessment that the government's overall policy strengthens competitiveness in Sweden, not least because we have strengthened public finances.
i-1636009e826e78ed-365	Mr President, I would like to Erik Ottoson has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take in order to attract more drone companies to Sweden. Erik Ottoson has also asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to promote Swedish innovation in drone technology. Drones are used today, for example, by brokers, forest companies, photographers, film companies, rescue services and police. Swedish companies also develop and manufacture drones for both a Swedish and an international market. The Government is working to strengthen the conditions for both Swedish and foreign companies to conduct a competitive business based in Sweden regardless of industry. Since October 2014, 200 000 more people have a job to go to. The confidence of industrial companies in the future has not been as strong in over 20 years, and not since before the financial crisis has Swedish industry invested so much in one year in Sweden as in 2016. Foreign direct investment in Sweden is steadily increasing. One of the main growth barriers in this situation is the supply of skills, and the government is therefore undertaking a knowledge boost with 50,000 new training places already this year. In order to strengthen the long-term competitiveness of Swedish companies, a team of forces for innovation is also being implemented in the research and innovation bill. Furthermore, Vinnova's programme finances aviation research, research and innovation on new materials and other subject areas that are important for drone development. A testing centre for drones in Västervik is now being set up in collaboration between the municipality, companies and the state through RISE and Vinnova. The government has also reformed the Swedish industrial research institutes and the state venture capital and presented a strategy for new industrialization of Sweden, Smart Industry. The government presented an aviation strategy in January this year. It is clear from this strategy that Sweden will maintain its position as a strong aviation industry, and the strategic collaboration programmes will provide new funding for innovation projects in a number of areas of importance to the aviation industry as of this year.
i-1636009e826e78ed-371	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The issue of drones in civil aviation has become increasingly topical in recent years as it has become more accessible for ordinary citizens but also for companies to use the technology, as the Minister explains. My question mainly took its starting point in a visit to the test bed in Västervik, which the Government describes. What I brought with me from there was that we have a lot of problems in Swedish regulations and legislation and in the conditions in Sweden to exploit this industry in the absolute best way. These include, for example, how we handle airspace and the regulatory parts of Swedish authorities. It is a new industry that is different from more established industries still in its infancy and where many childhood diseases arise in a government structure that is above in dealing with the issues and there is also a regulatory framework that might not really have the drones in mind when it was created. It was a little bit in what I took my point of departure when I asked the question. The government gives an answer on a more general level, and I have full respect for it. It may be appropriate at times. However, I would like to ask the Minister a few supplementary questions about just how we use our airspace and how we can create opportunities for this industry to grow and thrive in Sweden when we have such excellent conditions to do so in our elongated, sparse country. The test bed in Västervik is good in many ways. Within the framework of it you can find virtually every terrain in Sweden with the exception of, for example, mountain environment. But mountain environment is a non-essential part of this development work. Instead of being in Västervik, where it is cheap for start-up companies, for example, to take part in this technology, one must then get to what are essentially military test areas where it can cost up to 1 million a day to carry out their test activities – something that is of course prohibitively expensive for these not always capital start-ups and research groupings working on this. It is also described how it differs significantly how different Swedish authorities choose to handle this. For example, the Swedish Transport Agency has a very good reputation. They try to lump this into a regulatory framework that is not adapted for the business, while the opinion is that the Swedish Data Protection Authority is looking for problems rather than solutions. I would like to ask the Minister if there is any thought on how to create a package for this emerging industry to ensure that such obstacles are removed. After all, Parliament has announced to the government that it will develop a strategy to promote the civil applications of drone technology and create a newer regulatory framework. I do not know how the government has decided to take advantage of this, but if I am lucky, the Minister for Economic Affairs may be able to give an insight into how to try to marry this.
i-1636009e826e78ed-378	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Ottoson, for an important interpellation! I think it is important that we are more people talking about active measures to not only stimulate innovation in Sweden but also attract international actors to Sweden who want to be involved in developing activities in our country. I really think that Sweden in this area has good opportunities to work with these issues. I'll talk a little overall first. Investment promotion is an issue that we have prioritised in this government. When Business Sweden was designed at one time, the focus was on export issues. Export issues are important for Sweden, but the promotion of investment was toned down a little. We're trying to create a better balance now. We are investing more in export promotion, but we are also trying to build up our expertise in investment promotion in Sweden in a better way within the framework of Business Sweden and in cooperation with not least regional investment promotion organisations around Sweden. We believe that political pressure is needed to increase investment promotion and sell Sweden around the world. I am active in this work and very much welcome the fact that more parties and more members of Parliament are active in this work. In terms of what can lead to increased investment promotion, some are questions of test beds. In the latest research bill, we pointed out Testbed Sweden as a concept and as a way to get more impact from the research efforts we do in Sweden. How can you transform all the knowledge available, not least at universities and high schools in Sweden, into practical use both for new companies and in changed ways of working in public organisations, municipalities and county councils and authorities in general? The test bed in Västervik that Vinnova has been involved in supporting and where RISE is also a unique player. Among other things, one looks at environmental technology and at certification and training for flying driverless and sometimes autonomous craft. It's interesting to see what's going to become of this. How can you attract more players here, such as start-up companies that we were in and who may not have the fattest wallets but can still create a cluster of skills that is attractive enough to run this business further? On 4 May, we commissioned Vinnova to coordinate the work with Testbed Sweden as a national coordinating function in Sweden. Our goal is also for authorities to become involved in test bed operations at an early stage. Test beds can be instructive for authorities in terms of the challenges that exist for interpretations of regulations and regulations. What creative possibilities are there to interpret regulations and regulations to allow innovation and development? I very much hope that this model can lead to authorities perhaps not need a new government assignment every time but that they are constantly working to develop regulations in their operations. It's hard. Drone technology is used in a lot of different areas, which we were into. Today it can be used in agriculture, to use pesticides in a smarter way. Vinnova supports opportunities for this. They can also be used for environmental monitoring of sea and land. Drone technology can be used in searches of missing persons, for example to help Missing People. And you have started to look at how you could use them in dangerous missions in the mining industry. So it is not a regulatory framework that needs to be changed. Often there are very different regulations. This is a technology that will go into many different types of operations. It is an opportunity, but if we are to be honest, it also poses a challenge to the issue of regulation.
i-1636009e826e78ed-386	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to pick up where the minister left off. That's exactly how it is! It was also a bit against this background that the Riksdag, on an alliance initiative, announced the need for a drone strategy. An overview and review of the various regulatory frameworks is needed. They may need to be supplemented or changed. You may have to make new, more streamlined interpretations, if I may put it that way. I hope that the government will take Parliament's announcement seriously and take it further, so that we will have a strategy covering this whole new mode of transport, this new technology. It is a disruptive technology, a disruptive innovation that is putting a lot of pressure on it. Perhaps I and the Minister agree that not all uses of this technology are desirable. Therefore, there is also a need for a discussion on where the limit is. That discussion should not just be held in Sweden. It is, of course, also carried out at European and international level. But in these discussions, Sweden must have a clear line on where we draw the line. The promotion of investment and Testbed Sweden, as the Minister mentioned, are of course laudable initiatives. But I have to tell the government we're a little behind. For a number of years, by now, people working on this technology have gathered at various collections around the world. There has then been a cut-off sex, more or less, between different countries, states and regions that are trying to attract this technology and the jobs that come with that technology development and still quite strong innovation. Sweden has not participated there. We really should have had to participate. My hope is that the information I receive from the Minister today means that we will be in place, in different formats – perhaps not like the nation of Sweden, but through representatives of different Swedish interests. Sweden has almost unique conditions to be a test bed and development center for this kind of technology. Among other things, it has to do with the space in our country. We have room for that kind of test business. But Sweden also has quite a lot of expertise that can be used for this. It has to come out into the world. Otherwise, we risk getting the test bed. Then international companies visit Sweden. They test their operations here and then go home and continue to create the values at home. I felt that there was a small risk of it, when I was in Västervik and was told that French people are on their way there. They want to look at the test bed. But they will thus create value in France. They will visit Sweden but create jobs in France. Then we do not take part in the development of jobs in the same way that we could have done. These are a little more general comments. My question to the Government is: Should I interpret it as perhaps we can see a more active role for Sweden when it comes to moving those jobs here? It is important to show that we have these fantastic conditions, so that you not only visit and test in our test bed but also establish yourself in Sweden. We have attractive conditions when it comes to wages and other good conditions for companies to land here in Sweden.
i-1636009e826e78ed-395	Mr President, I would like to It is true that the Riksdag has made an announcement. It is, of course, prepared in the Government Office. We take announcements seriously. The work of the Government Office is divided into several different parts. We are following, not least, the work that is now taking place at European level. That's important, too. The European Aviation Safety Agency recently presented a proposal for the safe introduction of drone operations into airspace. It is now out for public consultation. The government and its authorities contribute to this work. However, I also call on other actors active in the sector to be alert now – it is important to emphasise this – and to ensure that European legislation is correct and good even if it will take a few years before it is in place. In terms of our own legislation came the biggest setback for the industry when the Supreme Administrative Court looked at the camera issue. We then got a setback and an interpretation that I don't think any of us had expected us really. This government already set up an investigation in autumn 2015 to review the Camera Surveillance Act, which the previous government produced. But it had a different outcome than you planned. It shows that regulation is not simple. Technology is moving forward, and progress is moving very fast. And our role is to create legislation that is long-term and robust and preferably technology neutral to the greatest extent possible. As the Parliament is conducting this discussion, I would like to remind you that we proposed in the bill on the Camera Surveillance Act that the use of drones by the private sector should not be covered by the Camera Surveillance Act. It has opened up a large part of the business again. I think it was important that we were able to act quickly and show that we took the issues of regulation and legislative interpretation seriously. I am not saying that this is clear and that we do not need to make changes to other laws and regulations. I'm sure we'll have to do that in time. This is a new type of phenomenon that will affect quite a variety of sectors. When it comes to testing in Västervik, but also in other countries' interest in the issue, we must be realistic. I do not think that Sweden will be the best at everything when it comes to drone operations. Many countries have made strong efforts for a long time and are therefore very good in some areas. If some of the countries that have made investments and are successful want to come to Sweden and test in a test business, we can not only make some money from the test business; it also means that we have the chance to build more knowledge in Sweden, linked to international actors who are here. It is therefore important that international actors are in Sweden and contribute to our cluster and to the development of expertise in this area, even if they do not carry out production in Sweden. Even in cases where international companies have gone further or make bigger investments, I think there is an interest for us to get that testing business to Sweden as much as possible. It builds a cluster and a knowledge over time that we benefit from. I also hope that Swedish companies and organisations will stay up to date in international contexts. I hope, not least, that they will market the opportunities that we have to conduct testing and demonstration activities in Sweden, to test new technology but under very different conditions. I hope the test bed in Västervik will be a success. And I look forward to continuing to discuss these issues more often in this House.
i-2KugpqFGDXKkzRzuF7LQ7C	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. I would like to begin by agreeing that the great manslaughter team came with the Supreme Administrative Court's ruling on camera surveillance law. In this respect, I think the government has put forward a good proposal which may need to be reviewed. In addition to integrity aspects, it should be ensured that everything works. Basically, it is important that this activity can continue in a good way. Then I would like to express a little disappointment that the Minister signals that we can be quite satisfied that we are coming here to test things even if they are not made here. In his reply, the Minister also says that Swedish companies also develop and manufacture drones in Sweden, which is new to me. All the manufacturing that I've seen has been at hobby level or possibly individual aircraft. I do not know that there is yet a more regular production, but it may be that the Minister is sitting on other information. I note that we have a long way to go, and I would be happy to arm the Minister and other representatives to ensure that there is as good a discussion and such constructive work on this as possible. I'm looking forward to the outcome of the announcement of a drone strategy. This is necessary in order to take advantage of the different aspects of regulation and legislation. Then I share the Minister's view that technology-neutral legislation is necessary, but it is not always possible. Let's face it, but let's do the best we can. There I think we have a lesson to learn in a lot of the new technological leaps that are taking place, and then one must probably also be on track and not just see how things are made possible in the long term. It is also necessary to see how new opportunities that can become threats are being addressed.
i-1636009e826e78ed-409	Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by thanking Erik Ottoson for an important interpellation debate on innovation, on Sweden's ability to move forward positions in this area and on our joint responsibility for marketing the conditions that exist in Sweden. It is a work that must be carried out continuously. Sometimes one sees drone operations as a single small operation and that it is separate. But this technology makes it possible to interact with other industries and businesses. That is where I believe the great potential for development exists. One example is when traditional Swedish mining industry uses drone operations in its operations. This creates an interaction when our large companies that have large economic muscles can contribute to the development of drone operations. Another example is construction companies that continue to develop drone operations in their production and planning process. Other examples are agriculture and forestry. That is where the economic drivers of a growing market are. Sweden has some unique industries and sectors where drone technology can play a huge role. I look forward to seeing that much of the development and production in the future can also be located in Sweden.
