i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-2	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked the Minister for Finance, on the one hand, whether she believes that monetary policy after the financial crisis has been balanced and, on the other hand, whether she believes that the Riksbank's inflation target should be complemented by an employment target. The work within the Government Office is so distributed that I am the one who should answer these questions. Regarding the question of whether the government considers that monetary policy after the financial crisis has been balanced, it should be stressed that the Riksbank is an authority during the Riksdag. The audit role is therefore filled by the Committee on Finance, which each year evaluates monetary policy for the three previous years. In the evaluations carried out since the financial crisis, the Committee on Finance has presented its position on the conduct of monetary policy. On the issue of monetary policy, I do not make any judgements other than those which the committee has made and which the Parliament has supported. Niklas Wykman also wonders whether the government believes that the Riksbank's inflation target should be complemented by an employment target. On this issue, I note that the Government, on behalf of the Riksdag, has appointed a parliamentary committee, the Riksbank Committee, to review, among other things, the objectives of monetary policy. According to the committee directives, which have been drawn up in accordance with Parliament's announcement, the committee should consider the extent to which real economic developments should be taken into account. The Committee shall report on its mandate by 31 May 2019. I do not see any reason to anticipate the Committee's work by giving an opinion on possible changes in monetary policy objectives.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-6	Mr President, I would like to It's getting closer to Christmas. Some will get Christmas presents. Some of these presents may not satisfy you. But then you can always say that it is the thought that counts. I am absolutely convinced that Per Bolund was also going to respond to the interpellation. It's just that Per Bolund then doesn't, but reads a lot of text instead of answers. I have not asked Per Bolund to review the policy pursued without evaluating the policy pursued by the Riksbank. Somewhere the Minister should have an idea of monetary policy, because the Minister is in the process of taking a series of almost draconian decisions in this area. These relate only to the consequences of monetary policy. It is a question of low interest rates, high indebtedness, high borrowings and various measures to stabilise both the economic and financial sectors themselves, if you believe what the Minister himself says. One can expect a Minister at the Ministry of Finance to have broad knowledge of economic policy, both fiscal policy and monetary policy. We have now seen huge changes in monetary policy. Fiscal policy is totally rejected by all assessors. The Financial Policy Council, the Swedish Financial Control Agency, the Swedish National Audit Office – all professional assessors completely fail fiscal policy based on the fiscal framework. In the monetary policy area, there have been quite significant changes in reasonable time with, for example, the change from the CPI to the CPIF. You maintain the target level but change the target variable. It is a relatively big change that you switch from KPI to CPIF but still have the same goal formulation. When you ask these kinds of questions, you expect a certain fullness of answers. These answers are in themselves interesting in terms of what the Minister or Government intends to do in a number of areas adjacent to this. However, if the depth of understanding and considerations is expressed in no other way than that the Minister shares the assessment of the Committee on Finance, it is clear that it is also very difficult to understand how the Minister is reasoning on a number of other issues. Nevertheless, for a Minister for the Financial Market, monetary policy is extremely important to grasp and reflect on, as it is of great importance in a number of other areas. It is also the case that the Ministry of Finance, the Minister's own department, makes other assessments than the Riksbank in this area. For example, it is written that the initial normalisation of monetary policy with increased policy interest rates is expected to continue. The Riksbank is assumed to raise the repo rate gradually, which contributes to rising government deficit rates. However, continued low external policy interest rates are assumed to result in a comparatively slow increase in the repo rate to an average of 0.6 per cent below 2 020. The Swedish 10-year government bond rate is estimated to be 2.5 per cent by 2020. However, the Riksbank itself makes the assessment for 2020 of 0.75 per cent and not 0.6. As the Minister's own department makes this kind of assessment of interest rates, I assume that the Minister is in some way also thinking about monetary policy. I should like to ask, Mr President, why the reflections and values of politics are totally absent from the answer. We have an independent Riksbank, but we hardly have a ban on monetary policy.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-13	Mr President, I would like to It is noted that Niklas Wykman mixes and gives in his interpellation. He likes to make statements on government policy. Of course, I do not share his views, which are very sweeping and rather imprecise. We obviously have different roles to play in the Swedish economy. I think you should respect that. I think it is important that we define the roles of different parties. We have an independent Riksbank that has to make decisions within the framework that it has to act upon. I think we should respect their independence and not deal with these kinds of issues carelessly. Should you have a discussion about the Riksbank's framework and what goals you should have to work towards, I think it is good if you do a thorough review and a thorough analysis. Expertise should be included, and the parties should sit down together. Since these are long-term issues, it is good if there is a long-term perspective in the structure and process. That is precisely why the Government has appointed the Riksbank Committee. There are representatives of all parties present in that committee. If Niklas Wykman has views, ideas or thoughts, he is free to bring them up with the Moderates' representative on the Riksbank Committee to conduct such discussions. We also have to deal with issues related to stability in the Swedish economy. So do we on the part of the government. When there is a low interest rate, it is clear that there are risks for the Swedish economy. We need to deal with them. For example, we have given Finansinspektionen the task of being a macro-prudential authority. During this term of office, we have also devoted ourselves to providing Finansinspektionen with the tools needed to carry out that task. We have done so in broad agreement. It is about the right to introduce an amortisation requirement, but also about a broader portfolio that is now on Parliament's table regarding the mandate to take measures to manage stability risks. I object to Niklas Wykman's description of our economic policy. On the contrary, we have a very responsible policy in which we have a large surplus that we use to pay off on the public debt. Sweden now has a national debt that is the lowest since 1977. That is something that we should be able to enjoy jointly. We also use another part of the space to make reforms that can increase economic development in Sweden and also provide increased security not least economically for those who have the worst conditions. We also ensure that the prosperity growth we now see in the Swedish economy, where the economy is doing well, comes to broad groups. Niklas Wykman would like me to comment and have views on issues that are both handled by the Riksbank and handled under the committee that we have just appointed with the task of drilling thoroughly in the issues. It is about considering, with the best expertise available to Sweden, what the objectives of the Riksbank's mandate and its mandate are. I have respect for the constitutional framework that Sweden is built around. I think Niklas Wykman should have it too. The Riksbank is an authority during the Swedish parliament. It is the Riksdag that will evaluate the policy pursued and the decisions taken by the Riksbank. If Niklas Wykman is interested, there are minutes from the Finance Committee where you can go back and see how the Finance Committee in total agreement has assessed the Riksbank's decisions that have been made. It is important that we stick to the principles governing Swedish economic policy.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-22	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Finance, Niklas Wykman, who is speaking about, is on the Committee on Finance. My assessment is that he has an eye on that question. Minister for Finance Per Bolund says here that I am sweeping and unprecise in my criticism of the government's economic policy. Let us bypass this by directly referring to what the expert authorities are writing. The Swedish Financial Control Agency writes:- The current surplus target, of a surplus of 1 per cent of B NP over a business cycle, extends until 2018. The ESV concludes that the surplus target is not met. A new lower target level will apply from 2019. This target level is also not achieved according to the current forecast. ..................................................... The Council of Finance Ministers writes that the Government's active fiscal policy is not balanced. In view of the cyclical situation and the surplus target, the policy should be much more rigid. ..................................................... The Swedish National Audit Office's comments: a difficult task to find support for unfunded measures in 2017. Financial as well as structural savings in the public sector are below the target level for the surplus target."The government does not present any arguments for actively weakening savings in 2017. The measures in the budget bill contribute to a weakening of savings in 2017. The Swedish National Audit Office therefore considers it difficult to find support in the fiscal framework to take unfunded measures in 2017. ..................................................... To be a little more clear, the Institute of Economic Development writes: ..................................................... The assessment that politics is balanced, responsible, and so on, possibly makes the Minister himself. But there is not a single expert authority that makes the same assessment. It is an entirely unique and entirely own assessment by the Minister. Not one of the authorities responsible for evaluating the government's economic policy shares this assessment. I do not ask the Minister to evaluate interest rate policy in itself, but at least to relate to the changes that have been made. For example, what does the Minister think about switching from the KPI to the CPIF without changing the case otherwise? You have a new target variable, but you have the same goals as before that you should achieve with the same means as before. It is worth the Swedish people to know what the ultimately responsible Minister for Financial Stability still thinks of such a change as the Riksbank does. Furthermore, I do not ask the Minister to comment on the Riksbank's interest rate path but rather: Why does the government's interest rate path deviate from the Riksbank's interest rate path? What is the government's view and assessment in its own budget proposal that the Riksbank does not see or assess? Why do the figures differ? Mr President, I would like to Again: It is not asking the Minister to review the Riksbank but rather to justify why the government makes a different assessment and on what basis. The two questions remain for the Minister of Finance to answer. What does the Minister of Finance think about switching from the CPI to the CPIF but maintaining the same target level? What does the Minister think is the basis for the different interest rate assessment that the government is doing alongside the Riksbank?
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-32	Mr President, I would like to I stand by the positions I have expressed earlier in the debate. It is important that we evaluate all aspects of economic policy. This is also done with the Riksbank's decision. However, it is the Riksdag's task to carry out such audits and not the government. I note that the Committee on Finance and the Riksdag do this work in complete agreement, which certainly ensures that there is solid work behind that assessment. In 2017, the Committee concluded: The Riksbank continues to conduct an extremely expansionary monetary policy in 2016 to bring inflation up to the inflation target. The committee also noted that inflation and inflation expectations continued to rise in 2016 due, among other things, to rising energy prices. By contrast, inflation remained well below the inflation target of 2 per cent in 2016 and well below the target for the whole evaluation period 2014-2016. The committee notes, however, that the use of resources in the economy has continued to rise as a result of the expansion of monetary policy, while unemployment has fallen further. It can be noted that the Committee on Finance has carried out a review of the Riksbank and the monetary policy that it has conducted. As I said in my introduction, I have no reason to make any other assessments than those of the committee which the Parliament has supported. It is no wonder that different forecasts of economic development are being made, thereby taking into account the different underlying factors affecting the economy. Forecasts are made by many different national authorities. The Ministry of Finance also makes forecasts, of course. I do not think it is anything remarkable at all. It is important that we follow changes made to the regulations and, above all, how they are implemented. It is important to do this type of analysis with a solid basis and in a comprehensive discussion. Of course, you also get into: What kind of goals is the Riksbank working towards? How is this objective pursued in the Riksbank's monetary policy decisions? That discussion needs to be conducted. It is also good that we now have a forum to conduct the discussion in, namely the Riksbank Committee. There we have very solid knowledge in terms of all the experts associated with the Riksbank Committee. We also have representatives of the political parties in order to have a credible and thorough discussion on these very crucial issues. It is a bad idea to stand here in the Swedish Parliament and start a discussion or debate on these issues. Instead, let us devote our time and effort to finding common denominators, common positions, in the Riksbank Committee set up to deal with these kinds of issues. I am therefore a little surprised that Niklas Wykman instead chooses to highlight these issues in the form of an interpellation debate. The instrument of intervention is incredibly important for democracy. It is also important for us to have a proper review of the government's work. But then the questions should preferably be about the government's work and the government's decision. It's not about having a general opinion or something like that. It's about reviewing what the government has done. In this case with regard to the Riksbank, it is clear from the Swedish Constitution that it is the Riksdag that is the investigating body that should follow the Riksbank's work. I see no reason to disagree with that Parliament.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-43	Mr President, I would like to I understand the financial market minister's agitated tone on the matter of form. I guess that's one way to avoid answering the question. I asked two questions. One was how the minister assesses the change from the KPI to the CPIF. There was no answer to this. I also asked on what basis the Minister makes a different interest rate assessment from what the Riksbank does. The remarkable thing is not that such questions are being asked. The remarkable thing is that the Minister does not seem to want to respond to them. I assume that the Minister at least has the knowledge to answer them.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-44	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that I am concerned about the level of this debate, that it would be about knowledge issues or the like. My staff, myself and also in the Ministry of Finance, we have a solid knowledge of these issues. I see it most as a way of trying to mix away the cards, which I do not think is appropriate in the Swedish parliament or in a debate that deals with very important issues. I am also concerned about the lack that I think is in Niklas Wykman's eyes when it comes to respect for the different roles that we have in Swedish politics. It is clear from the Constitution that the Riksbank has to set the interest rate level and to do so on the basis of a framework that we have established from the Swedish Parliament. If any changes are to be made to this, it deserves to be done on a very solid basis and, as far as possible, in broad agreement and after a joint analysis. I think that the Committee on Finance is handling these issues well and I hope that Niklas Wykman will be involved in this work. If Niklas Wykman has views on these issues, he is absolutely free to include them in the scrutiny of the Finance Committee but also in the work of the Riksbank Committee which is now under way. I would like us to spend our time as politicians and also Parliament's time discussing the important issues and allowing the Riksbank Committee to now work on this incredibly important work that they have to do on a solid analysis. They will sit for a long time, because these issues are genuinely complex and require a solid basis and also time to discuss. I think that the issues are incredibly much better suited for a committee work, where you can sit around the table and take advantage of the best expertise that Sweden has, rather than being discussed in interpellation debates in the Swedish Parliament.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-49	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me how I believe that psychosomatic ill-health in Sweden can be combated and whether I believe that a special rehabilitation chain for psychiatric diagnoses should be established. When I took office as Minister in autumn 2014, the challenge was clear. Sickness rates had increased by 50 per cent during the last term of the alliance government and the forecasts were upward. Expenditure was expected to increase by SEK 11 billion by 2019. The Alliance government had during its time managed to secure 100 000 people and at the same time get the sickness rates to point steeply upwards. It was mainly mental diagnoses and women's sick absences that increased. Controlling the situation and reversing developments became our clear goal. On such a complex problem as sickness absence, and in particular mental illness, there is not a simple solution; there are many measures that need to be taken at the same time. A broad action programme for increased health and reduced sick leave was presented in autumn 2015 and was further developed in the 2017 budget proposal. The action programme includes actions in several areas. The Social Insurance Agency was given more resources and a clear mandate to strengthen the management. Cooperation between the social partners was launched with the aim of reducing sick leave and working for healthy jobs. The government's work has had an effect. Inflows to health insurance are reduced and sickness cases are terminated earlier. It is gratifying that even cases of illness due to mental diagnoses have become shorter. However, I am not content with this, but will continue with the work that has begun to develop health insurance. I see, like Lotta Finstorp, that support for the individual needs to be brought forward and strengthened. This is particularly important for people who have suffered from mental illness. I believe that this is best done by a clear mission to the relevant authorities, not by moving people between the systems. I am convinced that employers can have a clearer role in supporting them on the way back to health and work. This is the background to the Government's proposal that within 30 days the employer should develop a plan for returning to work together with the employee. Another area where I see shortcomings today is interaction between the authorities, employers and health care. When collaboration fails, it is the individual who pays the price. It is about collaboration between Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen, between Försäkringskassan and employer, but also between healthcare and employers. I would also like to highlight the role of healthcare in preventing mental illness, but also to offer developed care to the people affected. The Government allocates more than SEK 1 billion based on the current strategy in the area of mental health. The strategy aims to coordinate efforts and create the conditions for long-term work. In total, the Government thus expects to allocate more than SEK 1.7 billion in 2018 for interventions in the area of mental health. This is an increase of SEK 550 million compared to the previous year. For 2,019 it is estimated that more than SEK 2.2 billion will be allocated and nearly SEK 2 billion by 2020. The key thing for me is that the individuals affected by ill health receive both financial security and a rapid and good support for return to work widely from society. In this, the authorities, employers and health services need to work together, with the individual at the centre.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-57	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is an extremely important issue. We have often stood in this Chamber trying to put our finger on what can be done, as many different measures and efforts are needed in order for fewer people to have to get sick leave or feel ill from mental illness. I agree with much of what the Minister says in his reply, in particular that the individual must be placed at the centre and that every individual and his need for rehabilitation must be looked at in order to get back to work quickly. But I do not think I am getting a really clear answer about whether there is a need for a special rehabilitation chain precisely for certain mental diagnoses, so I will continue to ask about it. Sweden should be a strong society that stays together. Those who are ill or injured and unable to work shall be entitled to compensation, care and treatment. However, a person who has or regains his or her capacity for work must always be supported and helped to get back to work. As sick leave increases significantly, society needs to step up its efforts to better address the risks of exclusion. And for the individual, from an individual perspective, sickness absence leads to worse personal finances. But a long absence can also lead to a loss of social contacts, for example. You don't have the workmates to go back to. In this way, exclusion is both economic and social. The effects can also be great for the next generation, that children of parents who are long-term ill tend to be on sick leave themselves to a greater degree than others. There's a lot of research to show that. We Moderates have proposals to strengthen today's rehabilitation chain, especially with a focus on the individual and if you have a diagnosis of mental illness. Then mental illness often depends on many different things, so it is clear that those who feel bad and have a stress-related mental illness can be better strengthened by a good work environment and a good employer. It's hard to distinguish what's really what. If you have a physical condition, it will be quite different. For those who have broken a bone, it is easier to come back through the rehabilitation chain than it is for those who have pain in the soul. Since the removal of the time limit, I have seen in the statistics the long cases of sick leave increased by about 1 000 people a month. This means a strong polarization between long and short cases of illness. I took note of – I think it was yesterday – that LO is concerned about its members and that the refusal from Försäkringskassan has tripled in two years. I have full respect for the fact that the government has set nine sick days per individual and year as a target. However, it must not be allowed to enter health insurance because the threshold is far too high. The government has given criticism for our longer deadline, which we still have in our budget motion. If the government instead makes that the threshold for getting into health insurance is so high that very few can get in there, I think the problem should be the same for the government. A longer deadline, which we advocate so that the individual can make demands to get his rehabilitation on time, should be about the same problem for the government as getting into insurance.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-65	Mr President, I would like to Let me be clear on some of these points. Firstly, do I think there is a need for a special rehabilitation chain? No, and I will soon return to why. Secondly, has the threshold for entering insurance been too high? No, it doesn't. In fact, between 2010 and 2014, we had a situation in which 100,000 people were insured out of insurance while the ability to work at precisely 90- and 180-day limits fell to below 50%. Half of those who entered health insurance did not have their work capacity tested at 90- and 180-day limits – not tested for return to work and not tested against the rest of the labour market. Instead, they waited for the people to fall out at the other end in the form of the longer time limit. I really think that's cheating people. What we now see, not to forget, is that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency examines approximately 600 000 cases per year about the right to health insurance and to sickness benefit. Just over 97% of those applying for sickness benefit may be granted. In contrast, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is currently examining nearly 90 per cent of all sickness benefit matters at the 90- and 180-day limits. Thus, it is also obvious that a review of the regulations, against insurance, means that more people will be denied continued sickness benefit. That is exactly where the system must work. Let me come back to what I see shortcomings today and what I myself would like to say is self-criticism. During this period of time, it has in stage one been about getting control of the ostensibly ills, building up a collaboration with the parties and making sure to get up the test of work capacity at the 90- and 180-day limits, because otherwise you don't need to have a rehabilitation chain but might as well skip it and do nothing without letting people fall out at the other end. It was important for us to get the insurance together. In stage two, we have stressed the importance of further developing cooperation with the social partners in order to also reduce inflows into insurance. We need healthier workplaces. We still see clearly, even today, that there are sectors in the labour market, not least the welfare sector – the elderly, the women-dominated parts of the welfare, the members of the municipal – where there has not been enough work in the workplace to prevent employees from getting sick from their jobs, and thus falling into health insurance. What I see, which unfortunately is now flawed, and where I will come back – and this really upsets me – is that the people who are being tested against the regulations that we politicians have now set up in far too many cases fall between the chairs when they are then to be handed over and get support from, for example, the Employment Service. No one takes responsibility, unlike early in a case where health care, insurance funds and employers work together. There I see shortcomings today; that is where we need to reinforce. The individual should of course have the right support at the right time. The picture that I see at the moment, in relation to a number of different dossiers, seems to me to be deeply problematic.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-72	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is problematic that you do not receive the support to which you are entitled. As we now sketch out the new rehabilitation chain, we think it would be very good for those who have mental illness that there is an increased competence out there when it comes to these diagnoses. We have money, and we add another 100 million to the Public Employment Service in order to be able, as the Minister describes, to ensure that people do not end up between the chairs. What we see, which is no news for the Minister, is that it is women who account for most of the sick leave due to mental illness. It is in workplaces where there is a high dominance of women that it happens. For example, the unit manager may have too many employees to see and listen to someone who is starting to feel bad. Prevention is extremely important. Women have almost three times as many started illness when it comes to psychiatric diagnoses compared to men. Absence due to physical injury is higher for men, and it certainly has to do with what the labour market looks like at all. But it also means that when I look at the rehab chain, which we are very proud of, it tends to have a little too much bearing on physical illness. Based on the knowledge needs of the actors who are going to handle this, collaboration is absolutely extremely important, but I also hear from many employers that one does not really know how to deal with the one who feels bad in the soul, and that for natural reasons because there is a certain taboo around these issues throughout society. If the employer is to get back as soon as possible and at a reasonable level the person who is on sick leave for mental illness – if it is to be so in case of mental illness – it must also be individual. It may not always be right to be on full-time sick leave, but the employer may be able to support and help so that you can work, for example, a few hours a day. We're stuck in old tracks, I think. We think as it was before that it is about the rough worker who squeezed himself, if I may ralli a little, but not about the woman who has not actually been able to handle and the soul says stop and evidence. We do not really have the resources there. It's the same in health care. Today, the queues lock you up. Once you have received your sick leave, it is very difficult if, for example, you have to have a renewed certificate, because the queues are so long that you do not really arrive. In addition, the person to whom you eventually get access may not have knowledge – primary care does not always have that – about mental illness that is stress-related. The risk is that the doctor you meet does not know whether it has to do with the workplace or whether there is something private and if you have an employer who cannot support it. The whole problem is complex no matter how you twist it and turn it around. We think it would be interesting to look at whether you could get a previous trial. This 30-day thing, which the government has in its programme, is quite right. I believe that we should try much earlier on new jobs in the workplace. I think that's great.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-79	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for this post! I am very aware of your great commitment and knowledge on this issue and I very much agree with your input that this is complex and we need to think in new ways, especially given that it is about women and relatively young women who have to return to the labour market. One of the early objectives that we set ourselves by the government is that we should have a ceiling on the proportion that we have in the sickness benefit. It shall not exceed what it normally lies on in a country like Sweden. These are young people, and they should have the right support and help to come back again. It is, of course, also a question of us politicians ensuring that this support is there so that you do not end up between the chairs because there is too little knowledge about mental illness and you cannot find the right one. I have, of course, also taken note of the Moderates' reform package, especially the one concerning mental illness. I think there are parts that are really interesting. One of these parts lifted Lotta Finstorp up here, and it is about Försäkringskassan's efforts for the group and that it should be ensured that the administrators who make these assessments are specialized in mental illness. I think that can be an important thing, as well as that the administrators at Försäkringskassan really step forward and not just try out from the insurance. It'll be easy that way-- this is the thing about government control. Right now, the many more are testing at the time limits. They certainly do so as carefully and well as ever possible, given the burden they have. But we can also say that it may not always be the best support for the return of the individual. The Social Insurance Agency is in its drainpipe. The Arbetsförmedlingen is in its drainpipe. The health care system is in its drainpipe. How do we make it work between them? One thing the government will do next year is what Lotta Finstorp was into; within 30 days there will be a proposal for a plan for a return to work that has been arrived at together with the employee. This is the one thing that is being imposed on the employer. We are also on the puck that Lotta Finstorp lifts up here, namely support for employers who signal that they find it difficult. We provide funds to enable employers to receive financial support to use expert resources to support the development of such a plan, so that it will be a good thing. The National Board of Health and Welfare also has new guidelines on sick leave for mental illness. The guidelines have been in place for almost a year and are much more in favour of partial sick leave. There is support in research today for a faster return to work if you have one foot left in the workplace. We politicians must also dare to put our foot down and say: This is what we think is good. It may not always be the most popular in all camps. But we think it is a good thing, and there is clear research support for it. We know that the likelihood of returning to the labour market is significantly reduced if a sick case goes too far in a full-time sick leave. More needs to be done. The Swedish Work Environment Authority started already during the time of the Alliance Government and has continued during our term of office to review a lot of female dominant working environments. It has looked specifically at women's work environment and now has a special review mission in the area of care for the elderly. I think it is quite right, and an important part, to review those working environments. I saw that you also have it in your programme, Lotta Finstorp. It's complex. We need to do more. Above all, we need to ensure that we do not lose individuals between our systems. It is devastating, not least for the individual.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-88	Mr President, I would like to I agree with a great deal. We have a broad consensus on the problem. It would be interesting to try a special rehabilitation chain for those who are sickly registered for mental illness. It feels like me and Annika Strandhäll are getting closer to each other a little bit in this matter. I also often think that people's everyday lives do not function as drain pipes. What's always missing are the gutters. When it becomes such a fairly broad, cross-sectoral problem, the systems do not respond to it. I think there's a lot to do there. We also want legislation to be tightened as regards county councils' responsibility to offer preventive measures to combat, for example, ill health. It is an extremely important thing that we have been talking about in many parties for many years. We need to move from words to deeds. The central point of our proposal is that it is not reasonable or sustainable for Swedes – one of the world's healthiest people – to have such comparatively high sickness absences, regardless of when you go in and look, even decades back. Therefore, all parts of health insurance must support a return to work in a better way. At the same time, health insurance must be complemented by better prevention and rehabilitation. Among other things, we need to look at the legislation on prevention and interaction between the various actors in a much more concrete way than today, in order to really put the individual at the centre. It is easy for us in this House to say: we always put the individual at the centre. But what does that mean in concrete terms? Unfortunately, most do not feel that this is the way it is.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-93	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp! That's exactly what it is. We have worked in different ways to develop health insurance, so that it is an insurance that also stimulates a return to health and work. I can take a rather clear example that we are struggling with now. It is important to strengthen the individual's right and to put the individual at the centre. Lotta Finstorp is well aware that we have worked for many years to introduce rehabilitation coordinators in health care. They are now available at almost all health centres in Stockholm, for example, which is fantastic. The idea is that you should be a spider in the net, be able to relieve the doctor and help with contacts within the healthcare system but should also take a broader grip to support an individual who is in ill health to be able to come back as quickly as possible. Many times Försäkringskassan does not enter until much later in a case of illness. Right now we are wrestling, in our precipices, with if and if so how we want to permanence such a function. The Landstingen can only be responsible for what has to do with health care. The Social Insurance Agency has its coordinating responsibility. And healthcare cannot take the coordination responsibility of Försäkringskassan, and Försäkringskassan is not there early in a case of illness. That's how we're wrestling with this. Then how do we solve this? We're legislating in our drainpipes. We're assigning our authorities to our drainpipes. We do not like agreements for a long time. But this is so perfect. You can see everyone's happy. It's good for the individual. But what do we do in practice? We need to get better here. And we need to continue to debate this. You move your positions forward and we move ours – hopefully in the direction of supporting the people involved, namely the individuals affected by ill health.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-98	Mr President, I would like to Mrs Quicklund has asked me when I intend to take the issue of the creation of a national anti-doping organisation further. I would like, as in a previous question answer, to state that the government in the 2018 budget bill states that we want to see greater coordination of the resources that the state provides for anti-doping in elite sports and in sports. It is a coordination of efforts that should also benefit other parts of society. The Government believes that overall it should provide active added value in the quality, efficiency and availability of interventions against doping. In addition, the credibility of Swedish sports operators and leaders can be ensured internationally. It can also strengthen confidence that Swedish sports anti-doping work is compatible with Sweden's commitments in international anti-doping conventions and in the provisions of the Swedish Code of Anti-doping.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-101	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its answer. The issue of the creation of a national independent anti-doping organisation has been raised several times. Then the Minister's former colleague, Gabriel Wikström, replied. This is an urgent issue in many respects. The creation of such an organisation is largely about the credibility of sport. It is also about the total credibility of Swedish sports. Doping has also spread outside sport. It's actually bigger outside of sport. The use of doping drugs in order to achieve these effects is also a public health problem, a social problem. But there are also an enormous number of harmful supplements that are literally uncontrollably well into the country and into the market. Some things in the Minister's reply can be interpreted positively. I'm glad. The Minister talks about greater coordination of the resources provided by the state for anti-doping, in elite sports and in sports. It's good that both sides are there. She says there is a coordination of efforts that should also benefit other parts of society. I take it that the Minister has understood that this is about sport, but also about public health. It is really good that the government believes that it should together provide an active added value in the quality, efficiency and availability of anti-doping efforts. In addition, the Minister says that the credibility of Swedish sports operators and leaders can be ensured internationally and that it can strengthen confidence in Swedish sports anti-doping work. What I lack is even more clear that it is a social problem, a public health problem. It is the most central and most important thing at the moment. The Minister will be happy to comment on this ambiguity so as to ensure that the focus is not only on sport but also on the other side.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-109	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Saila Quicklund, for a good and important interpellation! I think we are basically very much in agreement. As I said, I have an ongoing dialogue with representatives of the Swedish Sports Federation. We have also discussed this issue, and I have met Arne Ljunqvist, who is passionate about the issue of an independent anti-doping organisation. We'll see how we can get there. As Saila Quicklund says, this is also a broader issue for which long-term responsibility must be taken. It is also a public health issue. My predecessor, Gabriel Wikström, replied to an interpellation earlier this year that in recent years the government has increased contributions to the anti-doping work of sport. Only in February, the Government commissioned the Public Health Agency to support STAD in the prevention of doping by further developing the working method 100% pure hard training and coordinating the Prodi network, Prevention of Doping in Sweden. Gabriel Wikström was also clear that there is also ongoing preparation in the Government Office for a single national anti-doping organisation. What has been added during the year is that Wada has reviewed the Swedish Sports Federation's anti-doping work in relation to the World Anti-Doping Code. Three observations have been made. Among other things, Wada says that as the code looks right now, it is okay for RF to carry out the work that is now being done. However, based on the plans to amend the Code in 2019 and introduce provisions that are expected to enter into force in 2021, it is unlikely that it will be okay to carry out the anti-doping work in the way that is done today. Of course, RF is also aware of this. Wada recommends that, in dialogue with the state, the National Sports Federation organise urgently the anti-doping activities so that they are placed in a sports-based national anti-doping organisation. I am sure that Saila Quicklund also knows that this is the path that has been chosen in much of the rest of the world. At the turn of the year, Iceland will break Nado from its National Sports Federation and make it an independent organisation. Then there are two countries in Europe that do not have sport in an independent organisation, and that is Sweden and Lichtenstein. At the same time, the Swedish Sports Federation and the sports movement naturally want to take each other in good spirit in the work of change, and I will continue to conduct this dialogue with the Swedish Sports Federation. At the same time, I am aware of the recommendations made by Mr Wada.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-118	Mr President, I would like to It is precisely the chairman of RF, Björn Erik's son, who is critical of the formation of an independent anti-doping organisation, which surprises me. It was not so before, so it is good if the Minister exerts an influence on this important issue. Yes, there has been an increase in subsidies, but there is a lack of an independent anti-doping organisation. Sweden is left alone. Lichtenstein has a so to speak hang on Switzerland. This means that it is Russia and Sweden that are non-compliance, and that is not so good in this context when we know the history of Russian doping. Arne Ljunqvist – the world's foremost doping hunter, I would like to call him – also believes that Swedish doping testing in sport is far too closely linked to the Swedish Sports Federation. Everyone must have an anti-doping organisation separated from sport. He's been very clear about that. Ljunqvist also refers to an ongoing work within Wada, which the Government also mentioned. In 2019 there will be much stricter requirements for an independent anti-doping organisation that is not associated with the sports movement. Sweden, under Arne Ljungqvist's leadership, has for many years been primarily in the world with the doping work. Now we risk becoming a b-nation, which is terribly tragic. In the Alliance Government's investigation Antidoping Sweden – A new path to work against doping was already proposed in 2011 for a Swedish Nado to be established. The Minister's representative has said that the investigation is still being prepared within the Government Office. In my opinion and many others, there is no reason to wait. Through Ljungqvist's assignment, Sweden has had a good reputation in the international anti-doping work. The formation of a Swedish Nado in the near future is becoming more and more urgent, and it is urgent. We should have addressed this issue at least a year ago. This takes time to organize. Reportedly, we risk losing major sporting events in Sweden. The doping lab may not be approved if we do not get to grips with this issue so that we can finish by 2019. Representatives of sport and sports federations, and others, express the same intention that I am now advocating. I would also like to point out that no shadow should fall on the anti-doping work carried out today within the RF. You really do good things, it's important to remember. I have no criticism of the staff there. You do a fantastic job with the resources you have. I would also like to highlight this issue of food supplements. The Swedish Food Agency has reviewed 43 dietary supplements. Of these, 2 met the labelling requirement, 30 contained hazardous plants, 28 could cause side effects and 8 should be classified as medicinal products. There are heavy metals and arsenic in these supplements. Practising youths are recommended to use dietary supplements, and liver damage is devastating, among other things. This applies to 20-25% of the preparations available on the market. What does the Minister think about the very harmful supplements that are freely sold on the market here in the country?
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-128	Mr President, I would like to To begin at the last end, of course, this is extremely serious, and I also know this picture. Just as Saila Quicklund does, it is important to emphasise that there should be no shadow for the work done within the Swedish Sports Federation. That's where you do an excellent job. However, when developments move in a certain direction, as we can see from Mr Wada's expression, we must also be prepared to take steps in that direction. We, as well as my predecessor, have been very clear that – if this is to be done within RF's area of responsibility – we want the Association to agree. The dialogue we have with RF in this part is important. It is clear that Wada's analysis, recommendations and observations strengthen a dialogue that is moving towards a more independent Nado. It goes without saying that we see that one of the sports independent Nado can clearly take full responsibility for anti-doping activities wider in society, which will also promote interaction between sports, gyms, training industry and ANDT coordination in county boards and municipalities. RF has, of course, been clear that as a peoples' movement, they want to take their own responsibility, decide on their own internal rules and check compliance with the rules. RF has stated that it feels that the business works well and that it therefore sees no need to change it and that the sports movement in Sweden is unique and cannot be compared to movements in other countries. RF believes that if the code changes, the new code will be adopted by 2019, and the changes will take place by 2020-2021. It's supposed to be that what's the matter with the bridge, why fix it, isn't it? ..................................................... Now I make myself a spokesperson for someone else, but it's to explain a little about how the discussion goes. At the same time, we take Mr Wada's recommendations very seriously. It is not least about what Mrs Quicklund was at an early stage in the debate, namely our credibility internationally and that it will take time to get a possible new organisation in place.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-135	Mr President, I would like to The Minister is waiting for RF's consent. This can be done to a certain extent, but in fact we have overall political responsibility on this issue. Of course it should be preceded by a good dialogue, but we still have to take this responsibility. Despite the fact that we have had many debates on this serious public health issue – I choose to clarify it as it is the largest – I would like more clarity in when and how, because it is urgent. The government cannot stand by and watch Sweden lose the fine reputation we have had in the work against doping. We cannot allow Sweden to become a B-nation in these contexts when we have achieved great success in sport and good public health work. There are many questions. This has been up again, and we will certainly come back to it. It is an important issue, and I follow it closely.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-138	Mr President, I would like to Basically, there is a clear consensus on this issue. It's more about how we process the way forward. At the same time, I agree that if this change is to be made, it will not go overnight. Politics, of course, has a responsibility. That is why it was important for me when I entered the role of getting a broad picture, to have a clear dialogue with the Swedish Sports Federation, but also with those who, like Arne Ljungqvist, advocate a different approach and to take note of the various findings that have emerged not least during the autumn. Let's move on to the next step. Thank you for a good interpellation debate.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-141	Mr President, I would like to Saila Quicklund has asked me how I intend to act so that the government's reporting to Parliament on state support for sport can be improved and how I intend to act in order to better follow up the perspective of children's rights in sport. Let me begin by thanking the Committee on Culture's follow-up and evaluation group for its report on sport policy. It is a good thing that sports policy is debated and discussed, and in the dialogue I have with sport on improving the use of state support for sport, the report is a valuable basis. As the government expresses in the budget bill, the sports movement also needs to take into account and take on board the criticism. With regard to the report's assessment that the government's reporting to Parliament needs to be improved, however, I would like to point out that the government is following the established regime for monitoring and reporting state support for sport. This scheme means that the Centre for Sport Research, CIF, is responsible for carrying out a regular and long-term follow-up of State support for sport. The follow-up consists of continuous monitoring of the importance of State aid for sport on the basis of a number of indicators, in-depth analyses and complementary research, and monitoring of research results relevant to state support for sport. Having said that, I take note of the report's assessment and strive to further improve the reporting to Parliament. At the same time, I think that we must be humble in view of the fact that the results of activities in sport, the religions and the rest of society are not directly comparable to other government performance reports. For the government, it is obvious that the perspective of children's rights should permeate all policy areas and that children and young people should be respected and given opportunities for development and security, as well as participation and influence. The children's rights perspective has been the subject of several follow-up assignments to CIF. In the 2012 mandate, CIF would specifically assess whether any part of the State contribution goes to sports activities that do not serve the best interests of the child and are not accessible to everyone in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I note that the monitoring and evaluation group of the Committee on Culture has not drawn attention to this specific task in its report. CIF's conclusion was that there is a conflict between the decentralised governance model of the sports movement and the Swedish Sports Federation's ability to maintain a child rights perspective in children's and youth sports. In my opinion, the National Sports Federation is well aware of this conflict, and I assume that it will take this into account in the ongoing review of forms of support, in the development of an ethical code and in the establishment of an ombudsman of sport. For me as the minister responsible, this is a matter of course to watch.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-152	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. I therefore asked how the government intends to act in order to improve the government's reporting to Parliament on state support for sport and how the Minister intends to act in order to better follow up the perspective of children's rights in sport. I find some positive in the Minister's reply, but there are also ambiguities. It is positive that the Minister says that it is a good thing that we are debating sports policy, that the Minister considers the report to be a valuable basis and that the government in the budget bill shows that the sports movement also needs to take account of and take on board the criticism. The decision on the evaluation of State aid to sport was taken by the Committee on Culture on 27 January 2015. However, the work only started in 2016. It is one of the most comprehensive evaluations that Parliament has carried out. For those who are not familiar with this work, I can tell you that we focused on cross-country skiing, hockey, football and gymnastics. Hundreds of interviews were conducted through associations, special sports associations, coaches, management at federal level and county sports federations. What came to light aroused quite a bit of emotion. The purpose was to see what can be done better. So the idea was not to criticise sport in any way, which is a fantastic movement. Sport receives SEK 2 billion. As early as 2004, the Swedish National Audit Office criticised the management of the accounting of state funds. It is expressed that the government should clarify its reporting back to the Riksdag so that it will be possible to continuously monitor the use of all state resources and assess to what extent the purpose of the contributions has been achieved. There was also an announcement by the Committee on Culture in 2005. In our evaluation we find that much of this remains despite the fact that there were criticisms from the Swedish National Audit Office back in 2004. It is difficult today to monitor whether objectives and objectives have been achieved and so on. It's serious. It is still SEK 2 billion, and the government must take it seriously. Is the Swedish National Audit Office, the committee and the parliamentary evaluation wrong when we say that the reporting from the government to the Riksdag must be improved?
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-161	Mr President, I would like to The Government is following the agreed arrangements for reporting back to the Riksdag. Now, as I reply to in my reply here today, it is expressed that there is a desire for further follow-up. Of course I am taking this on board. However, as Mrs Quicklund herself pointed out just now, this is not a simple matter. Saila Quicklund is well aware that the fact that there are no specific appropriations for, for example, LOK support is a result of the Swedish Sports Federation's stated desire to decide for itself over the use of state aid. It is the same with the scant conditions of funding, and this is essentially the result of something that has not been given a particular party-based view, namely that the sports movement should be free and independent and set itself the objectives of its activities and that the role of the state is merely to set out the objectives and objectives of state aid. It is this rhetoric that really forms the whole basis of the state sports policy that Parliament has decided on. Of course, when I say this, I hear the obvious conflict between our interest in state governance and control and the independence of sport, which is also something that we as a state defend. We have tried to resolve this conflict through the implicit contract based on a close and confident dialogue. We also have follow-up on the work done by CIF, where we identify areas. The last time we have pointed out that gender equality is an area to be followed up. I feel that in the dialogue with RF – I know that you had a seminar in the Riksdag with an exciting set-up – there is also an insight among the Swedish Sports Federation and the sports movement that there are areas where there has not been enough success, as you also point out in your report, and that there are clear ambitions to improve in those areas. For example, the whole distribution system is now being reviewed as far as the grant is concerned. I think that is an important part of this. New gender equality policy objectives have been adopted. It is likely to start working on quotas. Gender equality analyses will be carried out. You take steps in the right direction. We must, of course, ensure that, in the dialogue we have with the sports movement, we get results that go in that direction. But what I want to raise a finger of caution for is that we become camera and start managing the Swedish sports movement as we do with our own authorities or companies when it comes to accounting.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-169	Mr President, I would like to I cannot believe that there is any interest in treating the sports movement as an authority. But there are still some things that we wonder about. I will take up here what the evaluation showed. Sport receives, as I said earlier, SEK 2 billion. It is the state that sets goals and aims. There are some difficulties – for example, the children's and young people's money is in an account that also includes other activities. I believe that this can be made clearer by quite simple means. What we came up with and the conclusions of the evaluation were the need for a review of state support for the sports movement. It is now very unclear to what extent the grants are given to activities carried out from the perspective of children's rights, which is actually one of the demands of the Riksdag. There's no follow-up. However, funds are paid out to associations where the activities are not carried out from the perspective of children's rights. That is wrong, and it goes directly against Parliament's decision on the matter. Funds shall only be paid out to associations which have activities carried out from that point of view. The government's reporting to the Riksdag must be improved. We have discussed this, as well as the Swedish National Audit Office, the announcement and the fact that this problem persists. There is also a lack of systematic monitoring of children's rights. There are violations and abuse – most certainly not, but it is there. What is interesting is the extent to which these violations occur. It is a relevant question to ask and try to get answers to. The role of the state grant as an instrument also needs to be developed. We also had a statement that there was previously a limitation period of two months for complaints that could lead to punishment. Here it turned out that, for example, 25 per cent of cases were closed due to the existence of a two-month limitation period. That's terrible to hear. But now you're looking at this, and I think that's good. I believe that this evaluation has led to the result that this is being addressed together with some special sports federations that have been on the line and have been pursuing the same issue. The Budget Act(2011:203) states that the Government in the Budget Bill shall provide an account of the results achieved in the operation in relation to the objectives and objectives decided by the Riksdag. That is what is not working today, and that is what we want to see improved. The Minister says in his reply that it is obvious that the perspective of children's rights should permeate all policy areas. Unfortunately, it doesn't work that way. Therefore, my question is: what does the government intend to do about it, now that we know that it does not work? What does the Minister mean specifically by the answer that, for me as the minister responsible, this is a matter of course to look after? What does the minister mean there?
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-177	Mr President, I would like to You raised several important questions in your post, Saila Quicklund, but there are also some questions that you do not answer. The risk in the debate that we now have here – where, of course, we will also discuss what is not working – is that we have a sports movement that is a peoples' movement, which is part of voluntary work with approximately 600 000 committed people all over Sweden and 20 000 associations, based on the commitment and willingness of these non-profit forces to engage in what they are passionate about and what they believe in. It is based on the children's interest to participate in sport and improve themselves. Let us not forget how important this is and how much good happens every day within the framework of the fantastic, active sports movement that we have in Sweden. That is the one part that has to be emphasised in this. It is easy to get caught up in what you do not think has worked well enough. But there is much within the Swedish sports movement that works amazingly well every day, and I would like to emphasise that very much. You're raising some important perspectives here. I have said that I and the government take the report of the Committee on Culture very seriously in large parts. I have no other point than that we are complying with the current regulatory framework in terms of reporting back. I would like to take with me thoughts on concrete proposals on how we can improve the reporting and follow-up of state sports subsidies on the basis that this is not a simple story. A clear part of this is that since the child rights perspective was incorporated into sports policy in 2009, the current government has twice commissioned CIF to evaluate this. In the 2012 mandate to CIF, it was a rather explicit task to finally assess whether any part of the state grant goes to sports activities that do not look after the child's best interests or are not accessible to everyone in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I think we all understand the good ambition behind this. However, with 600 000 people and 20 000 associations involved in a day-to-day activity – I was about to say – almost around the clock in our entire elongated country, it is not an easy task for CIF to judge either. It was pretty obvious. It was a difficult mission. It was sensitive, and CIF also had difficulty dealing with the issue. One of the questions I asked myself when I got into this was: What did CIF really come up with? You know what I mean? I don't think we disagree on the matter, but how are we going to do this with respect for the unique part of Sweden that the sports movement is? Even when I discuss these issues with representatives of the sports movement, I do not face any resistance. On the other hand, they are problematizing, which I respect. Then I just want to say: of course we should not talk about any limitation periods that the sports movement has invented when it comes to violations or the like. They must be reported to the police and reported to the social authorities. I want to be very clear about this.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-186	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. I believe that the evaluation contributed to the two-month rule being brought forward, because it was probably not really taken into account. That's very good. So there is something good about this anyway. I pay tribute to the special sports federations that have also pursued this with the two-month rule, whistleblower function, child ombudsman and so on. In my view, no one, whom I hold here in my hand, is largely a tribute to sport and to the 650 000 non-profit forces which exist in 20 000 associations with 3.2 million members. It's amazing. Many times I say that sport is perhaps the best integration engine we have in the country. With the public health challenges that exist, it is invaluable. Now it is concrete measures that come forward. Then it is not always the positive thing we highlight in the discussion, but it is here in the wording. I would really recommend people to go in and read the State's sports policy goals – a follow-up focusing on children and young people. It is a fantastic material with many interviews and so on. I understand that this is not easy. But now we've had an evaluation, and I'm the spokesperson for the whole group. We also had a representative of the Social Democrats, and we are in complete agreement on this. Let's take this seriously. As early as 2004, the Swedish National Audit Office made this point, and we made an announcement in the committee. We can see that the problem is still there. If CIF does not get a sufficient basis now, we may have to look at whether we can change the government's directive to the Centre for Sport Research. This is an issue that I will follow up as the representative of the evaluation team. I think the Minister seems to take this seriously, although there is some potential for improvement. Many thanks for the debate.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-192	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mrs Quicklund, for a good debate and for the great commitment! I also feel more confident after this debate that we have a common basic view of protecting what is unique with the Swedish sports movement. At the same time, we, you and the sports movement themselves, are saying that there are shortcomings, and we sometimes wish that we could move forward more quickly. Of course, as a sports minister, I can also see the potential if you manage to integrate girls in a better way. We know that only two out of ten girls are moving enough. We have integration issues. A few weeks ago I was in Bergsjön and visited Bergsjö IF, my old football club there. In fact, I was deeply concerned that more and more sports clubs are being shut down in the segregated areas, because they do not get enough non-profit forces involved. The associations mean a great deal to the ways into society and to integration at different levels. There is a common commitment here, and we must take a step forward. We need to see results. We also think that things have gone too slowly – you think that many times in the sports movement as well. Parliament and the committee should be able to feel secure with the reporting they receive and the possible developments that we need to get in place in order to do this even better. Thank you for a good debate!
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-197	Mr President, I would like to Johan Forssell has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce the number of long-term sick leave and whether I intend to take any measures to help people return to work. When I took office as Minister of Social Security in autumn 2014, my absence from work had risen sharply since 2010. A priority for me, therefore, was to take steps to stem the increasing sickness absence. In autumn 2015, the Government decided on a broad action programme for increased health and reduced sick leave. Strengthening the management of the Social Insurance Agency as well as the efforts of employers and health care services were priority actions. I can now see that the rise in sick leave has been broken. The increase in new cases of illness has been interrupted, and the current cases of illness have been terminated earlier. The Government's action programme has contributed to this development. The broad work we do is basically about not having to get sick from your job, but if you do, you should get both financial security and support back to health and work. I can also note that the number of ongoing cases of illness for more than 2.5 years is increasing. This is due, among other things, to the fact that the Government has abolished the lower time limit for the maximum number of sickness benefit days. This is also explained by a very low new grant of sickness benefit, which means that more people are still on sick leave. However, I would like to remind you that many of those who were previously insured because of the longer deadline later returned to health insurance and were re-registered. Taking this fact into account, it is clear that the increase in long-term cases of illness started already in 2013 and not when the deadline was removed in February 2016. The removal of the time limit has therefore helped to clarify the increase in long sick leave– I am not interested in frating or concealing any figures. A clearer picture of the problems in turn creates the conditions for taking the necessary measures. A priority for the government is to take measures to strengthen support for the individual. Those who are on long-term sick leave should not be left alone but receive good support to be able to return to health and work. The Government is investing in rehabilitation coordinators within the healthcare sector to develop support for the patient. The coordination associations have been given increased resources to take coordinated action for long-term sick written. The government has proposed that employers' responsibility for rehabilitation be clarified in order to strengthen the individual's chances of returning to work. The Social Insurance Agency has an important role in providing support to the individual in the sick leave process by identifying rehabilitation needs and ensuring that the relevant actors take the necessary rehabilitation measures. As stated in the 2018 Budget Bill, the Government will follow the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's efforts to develop procedures to follow up on efforts for those who are on long-term sick leave. Long-term sick leave has been made visible by government policies, and several measures have been taken to improve support for them. To the extent that additional measures can be taken to help those who have been on sick leave for a very long time to return to work, I am open to such discussion.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-204	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This interpellation concerns an important area that concerns many people in Sweden. But it also affects more areas than just social security. There is also a great deal about, for example, health care etcetera. Sick absence has historically varied over time. Compared to many other countries, it has commuted a lot in Sweden. There have been major changes that are not matched by any corresponding change in our health situation. This is important to remember. At an aggregate level, we feel at least better than before in many ways, but still sick leave has increased over a number of years. Anyone who remembers the discussion remembers that this was a major election issue in 2006, where sick leave was used to freeze statistics, as the Minister of Social Affairs mentioned here earlier. Then a major reform work took place on what we call the rehabilitation chain today, which aims to provide immediate action after 90 and 180 days. Unfortunately, it has not always worked as intended. We have also seen another important difference in these years. In the past, absenteeism was much about pain in the shoulders and knees. It has changed in part. Unfortunately, it is now, I might say, a lot of the mental ill health that is growing instead. It is not always easy to diagnose. Nor is it easy to always know exactly how to handle it. For a person, it may be best to be at home for some time. For many others, I think the best thing is to stay at work or perhaps change jobs and get a better job situation. Fortunately, we now see that sick leave is leveling out. It levels out at a much too high level. But we'll see what happens in the future. It is unclear whether the government will succeed in achieving its objective. One area of concern is the long absence from sickness. With long sick leave, people who have been on sick leave for at least two and a half years are usually considered. This has increased. In fact, there has been a dramatic increase in recent years. We do not see that this group is decreasing, at least not according to the statistics from Försäkringskassan that I have managed to find. It's increasing rapidly. Why is the long absence so problematic? Of course, it is primarily because it puts the individual in a difficult situation, with a great deal of suffering. We also know that the longer the time passes, the likelihood that someone will make it back after a long sick absence is much less. The chances of finding a job are decreasing. In this context, it is impossible not to mention the deletion of the time limit. This change made the government in violation of recommendations from its own authorities and its own expert bodies, such as Försäkringskassan. We of the Moderates warned against what we now see is starting to work. Not only did we, but I even think there was a majority here in Parliament. This does not explain the whole increase, but it is an important explanation. Nevertheless, I think it was a good idea for the Minister for Social Affairs to describe it in his reply: that we now see the effects of this. Nevertheless, it does not change the situation we have today and the very rapid increase that has taken place. In view of the fact that we are now almost approaching peak levels from the past, if this trend continues, I think that more measures would be needed than those presented by the government. I'd like to know if there are any of those.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-215	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Forssell, for the interpellation! Yes, there is a worrying development at all when it comes to sickness absence. Above all, it is worrying for the individuals affected if they do not get the right support to return to health and work again. Johan Forssell is right that sick leave has been commuting in Sweden over time. It's been commuting significantly. We know that it has been affected by many different things, which we do not have time to go into detail now. But at the same time you can look at the ill health of the population. Johan Forssell is quite right that we Swedes are getting healthier in virtually all areas except when it comes to mental illness. There we see an increase since the late 1990s. Nor is it surprising that this is the most common reason for sick leave among both women and men. Every other woman and every third person on sick leave is on sick leave due to mental illness. It is clear that it places demands, not least on us politicians: that we should be able to adapt to the reality that we have today. When the government took office in autumn 2014 – this is what I described in my interpellation response – we had an ostensibly sick absence since 2010. It was indeed from low levels, as I am sure Johan Forssell will point out, but nevertheless the absence of sick people was a waste of time. It had increased by 50 percent over those years, while 100 000 people had been secured. We also see clearly how it was with the increase in the long cases of illness, taking into account the fact that people were spinning around, being insured and coming back into insurance as a new illness. The increase in long cases of illness started in 2013. Of course, it is important for us to be able to see that picture in order to be able to do the right things. The government has been very clear. Given that sick leave looks like it does – it is mental ill-health, and above all it is the average relatively young people who are affected – it is extremely important to conduct a policy that is preventive and prevents people from getting sick. If you get sick, you should have early intervention. You're supposed to have the right support. Of course, the ambition should be that people should come back to work and health again. One such thing that has come into place during this term of office is, for example, new guidelines from the National Board of Health and Welfare. In the case of mild to moderate mental illness, it is not recommended in the same way as previous full-time illness. It is partial sick leave that is more recommended, so that one foot remains in the workplace. There is evidence that it shortens the time in sick leave and makes it possible to come back again. This has been the whole starting point for government policy. We need to do more. Above all, I would like to say that there is something that upsets me as a responsible politician right now. It is that the collaboration between, for example, healthcare, Försäkringskassan, employer and Arbetsförmedlingen does not work as intended. You work a lot in your own drainpipes, which means that people do not get the coordinated support needed to get them back as quickly as possible. We see examples of people falling between the chairs. This will be a clear focus for me in the future. This means that you will reduce the time in sick leave if people get the right support to come back.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-223	Mr President, I would like to We're not gonna talk too much about history. However, since it was mentioned, I would like to say that sickness absence was clearly reduced during the time of the Alliance in power. This was partly due to changes that occurred over time. But I also believe that this was largely due to the changes made by the Alliance Government under very harsh criticism from the Social Democrats. That's it. I think everyone remembers the 2010 election movement, for example, when this was the big election issue. The reforms were carried out, and I think that has been a good thing. I can see from the evaluations made of the rehabilitation chain that it has been successful. Then I am the first to agree that more could really have been done, not least from 2010 onwards. This is something to be learned from. But I also think that the Minister for Social Affairs should be honest enough to note that the criticism from her own party during that time was that too much had been done, not that more should be done. But let's talk about the future, because that's what it's all about. We see a very rapid increase, and it is problematic. I couldn't hear any new proposals from the Minister of Social Affairs. I agree that you can focus on different things. But I could not hear any new proposals to break the trend. And what has been done does not seem to have had any effect so far on the long absence of sick persons, as it has increased and continues to increase. I would therefore like to point out some of the things that we Moderates put forward in Parliament over a year ago. We believe that there should be a special rehabilitation chain for mental diagnoses. You can't compare breaking a leg with developing a mental depression. It is not possible to respond in the same way. We believe that a different rehabilitation chain is needed to directly capture this. That is something that is not in place today. We also see that there are a number of working environments, not infrequently in the public sector and in women-dominated professions, where mental illness is unfortunately very over-represented. I think there's a lot to learn from here. It's about how politics designs different workplaces, about proximity to their employees, etc. In concrete terms, however, we believe that there is a need for targeted monitoring of the working environment where there are groups with high sick leave. Another area is to get Försäkringskassan to do what you should do. It is good that the checks at 90 and 180 days now take place more often than before. But there is nothing that s owns that it should not happen in 100% of cases – that is the aim. It may be a success that it has increased from 70 to 80 %, but I will not be satisfied until this happens in 100 % of the cases. It is not to argue with people, it is to give people the support they are entitled to. We know from experience what happens when you just let this go. Days become weeks and months and years, and we should, as I said, bear in mind that the longer you are away from the labour market, the harder it will actually be to come back. I note that new reports show that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency manages in far too few cases to carry out the trials in the way it is intended by law. Recently, a report from the Social Security Inspection came, I would like to recall, which I believe showed that this is being done correctly only in one third of the cases. It is a good thing that the government is following the question and will focus on different areas, but when I add up the strong increase in the long illness with the problems that I ring in, I would have liked to see more of the momentum in this important area already here and now.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-232	Mr President, I would like to Of course you can wish for more. Nevertheless, the reality is that, with government policy, over these years we have increased the proportion of trials at 90- and 180-day limits from around 50% to now up to 90%. That's good. Then the ambition can always be higher. The quality of the trials also needs to be improved. This is a work going on at Försäkringskassan, where you have a clear mission from the government in that part. What else do we do? From mid-year next year, a new legislation will come into force which will require a rehabilitation plan to be drawn up with the employee already after 30 days. I agree that in these cases more needs to happen earlier, because once you come into contact with Försäkringskassan, you are often very far away in a sick case. We therefore need support earlier. In addition, we also make resources available to employers to enable them to take in expert resources because they will of course need support in taking this responsibility. Many employers find mental illness difficult. This is one of the things we do, but the government will also come back with more things shortly. Above all, I do not believe that this is about further popcorn policy, but now it is about building on what we see working. We are going to close the gaps that we see, and I am the first to sign that if the trials have now been increased at both the 90- and 180-day limits, the individual must also be able to feel confident that our authorities are not only working in their own drainpipes. They should ensure that the individual receives the right support and does not fall between the chairs, because then you may not return to either health or work, but on the contrary you will be knocked out and become poor. That is not how we want it to look, and that is where I intend to do more. There are also demands that I need to make on health care and the Social Insurance Agency as well as on the social partners in order to prevent people from becoming ill on this scale. I agree that we still see too much inflow, especially from women-dominated workplaces. There, however, the Swedish Work Environment Authority, which may delight Johan Forssell, has targeted supervision against, for example, elderly care to see what is lacking in the working environments and which generates so many cases of illness. We have a new work environment strategy where one leg focuses especially on mental illness. Now, as I said, it was above all about keeping a fundamental policy. People should not have to get sick at work, and if you do, you should get the right support early. As politicians, we must also demand that our authorities and other parts of society interact around the individual and make tools available for this. The individual has the right to expect that, because you should not have to be left with ill health and not know where to go. One example of a major effort that the government has made during this time period is to expand rehabilitation coordinators, which are precisely the spider in the web around the individual, throughout primary care. I can see that it has been done in almost all health centres in Stockholm now. We have taken many steps in the right direction. We've broken the rise. The ongoing illness cases are terminated earlier, but more needs to be done.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-243	Mr President, I would like to I wonder whether the Minister for Social Affairs' statement that 90% of controls are being carried out is correct. We had the Social Insurance Agency in committee today, and I thought it was a picture of a much lower level. As has been said recently, the social security inspection has described that this is being done properly in one third of cases. I therefore believe that the government is painting in far too optimistic colours. This particular interpellation affects the long illness of over two and a half years. There the increase has been very strong in recent years, even if you count in and compensate for those who would otherwise have gone to ALI etcetera. Then we can think about whether it happened from 2013 or 2014, but it does not change the fact, Mr President, that the increase has been very large and that I am aware that it is also going on. The increase would certainly have been even greater without the rehabilitation chain. It's good that it exists, but it doesn't change the fact. One can think about where we are in a year or so if this development is not broken, but we will see that then. The government describes how you want it to be. That is a good ambition, but it is not enough. We must also have the policy to get there. In fact, I think that the Minister for Social Affairs is a little short-sighted when it comes to concrete reforms in order to achieve what you want. If what has been done has been enough, I wonder why we are seeing this huge increase in the long illness. In any case, I would like to give the Minister the right to one point, and that is that one of the explanations is precisely the abolition of the longer deadline. This is exactly what we warned Moderates against.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-248	Mr President, I would like to I note, as Johan Forssell said in one of his speeches here, that I have no desire to froze statistics. That was exactly what happened with the longer time limit in health insurance: People who had been spinning around in insurance were counted one, two and three times as new cases of illness every time they came in. Of course, then there won't be any cases of illness long. Then you are on a very low level of long cases of illness. But it's actually just a chimare. Work is being done to follow up the long cases of illness. Among other things, coordination associations have been given increased resources to make precisely coordinated efforts for long-term sick leave. After all, if you are long-term sick and have been spinning around in insurance during the time of the alliance government in power – one, two and three times – you are quite fragile. Therefore, efforts also need to be coordinated around these individuals. They have a fairly long way to go to enter the labour market. There is one more question that I am thinking a lot about, and that is that the current level of the number of individuals who move on to sickness benefit is extremely low, historically speaking. In the past, we in Sweden have been on average around 18 000 people on an annual basis who move on to some form of early retirement. Now I think there are 8 000 people, and it is clear that this means that many people remain in health insurance. We know that there are individuals there who may never come back, and that is also something that we will be thinking about when we formulate our further policies. You should get support and help in one way or another. Thank you for a good and important debate.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-254	Mr President, I would like to Mrs Quicklund has asked me what measures I intend to take to tackle the problem of abuse in sport and how I see the creation of a special children's sport ombudsman with the power to act on a case-by-case basis. I would like to thank the interpellant for her commitment and for once again raising the issue of the protection of children in the sports movement in this forum. Protecting children and their rights is also a central issue for the government. The answer given by the then Minister of State Gabriel Wikström to an interpellation earlier this year is still valid. I therefore refer to that answer and stress that I do not believe in the idea that the state should set up a special ombudsman for children for sport. As the interpellant knows, the Swedish Sports Federation is currently working to develop an ethical code in sport and to establish an ombudsman of sport. I welcome this work and look after it with great interest.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-257	Mr President, I would like to We are on our third debate today, and I thank the Minister for his answer! I hope that we have a broad consensus on the issues of abuse in sport. Assaults in sport are a threat and a real violation of the values of sport. It is important to point out that it may not be an isolated sporting problem but a social problem in general. The evidence we are now taking part in is frightening, but it is also important that these testimonies come to light. Immediately after a few hours or a few days, there were 2,290 active athletes, supporters, employees of the Federal Offices, and others who witnessed pure violations of the law. Even the big sports gala or events are not now protected zones. This really has to stop. Mr President, I would like to Over the last two years, I have been actively working on the issue of abuse in sport, particularly with a focus on children and young people. The Moderates give priority to both culture and sport, especially with a focus on children and young people. Therefore, it is also particularly serious when children and young people are subjected to harassment or abuse, regardless of the area in which they are located. The sports movement, with its over 3 million practitioners and 650 000 non-profit leaders in 20 000 associations, is doing a wonderful job every day in creating a meaningful leisure time for our children and young people. The sports movement must also be respected for its independence and independence. But politics cannot stand by and watch social problems occur in sport. In the evaluation of the State's sports policy objectives that we have debated in the past, it has emerged that there is, among other things, a lack of systematic follow-up of the perspective of children's rights, as well as the abuses and violations that occur in sport. The two-month rule in RF's statutes that remains in place for the notification of abuse to result in a sanction, as we have previously talked about, is problematic. It is therefore also gratifying that the Swedish Sports Federation has taken a clearer approach to the issue after the Swedish Sports Council – all in order to strengthen the perspective of children's rights. That's a good thing. Among other things, it is a matter of reviewing the possibility that only competition-related issues and breaches of the rules should be covered by the shorter limitation period, while offences that occur outside the competition arena, such as harassment and sexual abuse, should have a longer limitation period. Mr President, I would like to Politics cannot stand by and watch social problems occur in sport. We must and can act now to strengthen the position of children and young people in the legal process. Here, for example, we have raised the issue of setting up a special ombudsman for children, or increasing the powers of the existing Ombudsman for Children to act in the individual cases – which is not working today. There are also commendable initiatives, such as Treskablinoll that Elaine Eksvärd, Patrik Sjöberg and Linda Grådal have started. These are guidelines for associations in the fight against sexual abuse in sport. It is a fantastic initiative, and a lot of good things are being done. What measures does the Minister intend to take to tackle the problem of abuse? What does the Minister think about setting up a special children's sport ombudsman, or giving the Children's Ombudsman the power to act on a case-by-case basis? There's no need for a new authority. The important thing is that the function is outside sport, so that you do not look at yourself.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-265	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an important interpellation! It is an issue that cannot be raised enough often in this and other contexts. We know that there have been numerous abuse of children in Swedish sports and that leaders and other adults, including associations and associations, have sometimes closed their eyes. The close relationship between coaches and athletes in certain sports poses a particular risk. It is also something that needs to be made aware. However, I feel that many authorities and not least RF in recent years have worked very actively with the issues. Comprehensive and knowledge-based guides have been developed. It is extremely important that sport works broadly and does not join inwards. For example, there is a new collaboration with Bris with a new support line for sports leaders. Ideally committed and employed leaders in sport should be able to call if they are worried about a child. It's an important part of the whole thing. As I also said in my interpellation response, a code of ethics is being developed and an ombudsman of sport is being developed. What is very important to come back to, as we mentioned in our previous interpellation debate, is, of course, that the cases we are now talking about – violations and abuse of children and young people – can never fall within any regulatory framework that sport itself has. They shall infallibly be reported to the police and the social welfare board to be handled by outside persons. It's undeniably so. I am also sure that Saila Quicklund is well aware that Sisu and the entire sports movement are engaged in active work to educate both leaders and active people on these issues. I assume that this is done in a good way, and I will follow the work that is now taking place within the sports movement very closely. I am pleased to hear that you think these issues are important and need priority. This is also true on our part. We are currently working very hard to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child into law, with the consequences that it will have.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-269	Mr President, I would like to Good initiatives are being taken, and this is done on the basis of the evaluation carried out by the Riksdag. I also believe that special sports federations have drawn attention to the evaluation and also to public opinion. There have been many parts. On the other hand, the evaluation found that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is unknown at the top of the line among the leaders. There is a very good value document within RF, but it is also unknown to many. There is a great potential here to improve, so that we know what standards we should work on. The Minister chooses to refer to an ethical code and a whistleblower function decided by RF. But that work will not be reported until 2019, and it is 2017 today. The cases are out there right now. It is a little worrying that the Minister for Sport has not responded to the current state of play here and right now. It is now that we see the cases that have occurred. Why should we wait until 2019? It's a long time. In his reply to my question, the Minister pointed out how she intends to take advantage of the results of the committee's evaluation, which we debated just now, that she does not intend to take any specific initiative on this issue. Of course, sport must be respected for its independence and independence, but politics cannot stand still and watch sport suffer from what is essentially not an isolated sporting problem but a social problem. Why does the government choose to lean on what the sports movement does and not act more clearly in what is a major problem? In the SVT program Hidden, ten riding students told about how they had been sexually molested by a successful coach in Skåne. The case also became topical after a post on the blog Ponymamman, who pointed out the said man for having performed a number of abuses over 20 years. In May, the Ridsport Association also chose to withdraw the man's training license. This is just one example of incidents in the sports movement taking place here and now. That is why my question is relevant: what action does the Minister intend to take? Is she going to sit back on what the sports movement intends to do only in 2019?
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-275	Madam President, I would like No, the government does not intend to do so, nor does it. I think that Saila Quicklund in her post says a few things that are very important. Number one for me is that sport should not turn inward and solve this on its own. This is a problem in sport, and in some cases and in some situations we must pay particular attention to this because we have seen it occur, particularly in certain sports. It is a risk that needs to be made aware. In sport, of course, they themselves must also work on these issues. Because, as Saila Quicklund says, it is extremely important from what she describes that even more is done. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is not sufficiently known, and the valuation issues to govern this are not sufficiently known. Sisu and the sports movement as a whole must also carry out their own work. The government, for its part, has been very clear that it is about to make the b a rn convention law. As late as the beginning of the summer, the government adopted an updated action plan to protect children against, among other things, human trafficking, exploitation and sexual abuse. We work very actively with these issues in many different ways. I am not sure, however, that the starting point in this interpellation, that sport should set up an ombudsman for children, is a solution. Rather, I believe that it is the government's work that is now being done as well as the own work that is being done within the sports movement that needs to continue. We already have a child ombudsman in Sweden, as well as organisations such as Bris and Save the Children. In addition, it is police and social services that should act if there is a crime suspicion. It is perhaps even more important to work on the knowledge of these bodies and organisations and that children, young people and adults can already receive support there today. That is where you should turn, because they have a thorough and regular work on this. Sisu, too, has been actively working for several years to create safe sports environments. But with 20 000 sports associations, 650 000 leaders and 3.2 million active, it is of course a very big job. It needs to live and get weight and focus within the framework of the sports movement. In our society as a whole, it is also still zero tolerance in this regard. We have to work at many different levels and planes to ensure this. It is excellent that the evaluation that has been carried out also highlights the issue and further pushes it forward.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-283	Madam President, I would like I do not think it needs to be a special authority, a children's sport ombudsman, in itself, but it could be the Children's Ombudsman who is given the power to act on a case-by-case basis. Sport should not examine itself. We hear from people who have been exposed that this is what in much has been the problem. This is the whole point. We can compare with an independent NA, which we discussed earlier. Credibility makes it out of business. I would like to thank you for an important debate on how sport should be a safe arena for both children and adults, for everyone, and for curbing the incidence of abuse both on and outside the stadiums. That must be our absolute objective. The fact that Swedish sport can be at the forefront of healthy ideals and go against harassment and pure abuse is also a matter of trust. We know that sport creates joy and community and contributes, among other things, to improved public health and increased community for children and young people. This cannot be said too many times, Madam President. The Swedish Sports Federation, the police and the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, together with other actors in other contexts, have built up a good collaboration to counteract problems that make the sports movement blackened down. When a sporting problem turns into a social problem, it is time for us to act. Further policy efforts are also needed on this issue. I hope that we can continue to take a stand on this subject, and I intend to actively follow the Minister's work in this area. Thank you very much for the third debate today.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-289	Madam President, I would like This is, as I said, an issue that cannot be raised enough many times. I can stress that on issues such as those we are talking about today, we are very much in agreement that sport should not act alone or examine itself. There are authorities, police and social services as well as other independent organisations that do and that should do this. It is to those you should turn to in cases where such things occur. There is cooperation between different actors to curb, prevent and act when things like these come up on the table. At the same time, I appreciate, as I said earlier, that the Swedish Sports Federation is stepping up further after the last RF general meeting. This applies both to the Code of Ethics in Sport and to the establishment of an ombudsman of sport. Let's see how this comes out. We have to work in many different ways. Above all, if something like this occurs, it should not be handled by the sports movement itself on the basis of its own regulations, but should be handled in society like all other crimes committed. I thank Mrs Quicklund for a good debate and a great commitment, and I look forward to further discussions on these issues.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-293	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me four questions about organ donation. I would like to begin by emphasising that this is an urgent issue and that I want to do everything I can to ensure that everyone who needs a donation receives it on time. It is also important to point out that there are more measures than legislation that contribute to an increased number of organ transplants and not least that it is not only legislation that solves well-functioning donation and transplantation activities. I would like to begin by presenting statistics from the National Board of Health and Welfare on donations. I would like to stress in particular that the agency's statistics show that in 2016 the highest number of organ donors died in Sweden was reported so far and that it is a trend that has persisted since 2010, when the number was 113. A total of 185 deceased persons became actual donors in 2016 through the removal and transplantation of one or more organs. This represents an increase of good 10 per cent compared to the previous year. As each donor can submit more than one organ, the number of donations received exceeds the number of donors. In 2016, a total of 786 bodies were transplanted. Of these, 649 came from deceased organ donors and 135 from living organ donors. However, the need for organs for transplantation remains high. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare, there are still large differences in the rate of donation at the regional level. This usually means that through changes in our operations we can improve results and get more equal care. The issue of donation is difficult and complex, and it is important that we get a long-term solution that both facilitates and promotes an increased number of donations. The government has carefully analysed the evidence provided in the investigation Organdonat ion – A vital activity (SOU 2015:84) and concluded that the issue requires further investigation and consideration. The problems we see are linked, among other things, to the constitutionally protected right to consent to the care provided. There are exceptions when it comes to saving lives, but it is the individual's life that it refers to. So this does not apply to anyone else's organ donation. This fact does not take account of the investigation's proposals and therefore it is not possible to proceed with these very elements. It is true that, overall, it has taken time both to analyse and to try to remedy the shortcomings of the proposals. A more detailed information on the legal aspects of the proposals will be presented to the Social Affairs Committee at a special presentation in accordance with agreement between the Ministry and the Social Affairs Committee. In order for me to be able to make an assessment of whether the government should be able to propose something concrete on the issue of notifying n in connection with passport, ID cards and driving licence applications, a preparation basis is needed. There is no such thing today, and that is why I cannot speak on this issue at the moment. The Government is now reviewing the possibility of developing a basis for the legislative measures that are needed to get more donations, but other measures can also be considered, such as developing the National Board of Health and Welfare's mission at national level. Finally, I would like to point out that we have a high level of donation in Sweden, and by reviewing how we work on this issue at national level, I am convinced that we will continue to increase the number of donations.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-304	Madam President, I would like It is good to thank you for your answer, so let me start with that: thank you for your answer, Minister. At the same time, I cannot fail to admit that I am disappointed in the answer, very disappointed indeed. In his reply, the Minister highlighted the very positive development that we have seen in recent years, with more organ donations and more reporting as donors. However, I am concerned about the fact that the Minister is taking the positive developments into account in order not to do more. I'm afraid that seems to be the case. The minister initially said in his reply: ah, I want to do everything I can to make sure that everyone who needs a donation gets it on time. This introduction really gave me hope that the Minister in his reply would present or present concrete examples of what the Minister and the Government are doing or intending to do in order to get more people to make their donation known and in order to allow for more actual donations, but not. The only thing the Minister said about what the government is doing is that it looks at the possibility of developing a basis for the legislative measures that are needed to get more donations. You look at the possibilities to produce evidence – this in my world doesn't really sound like the Minister is doing everything she can to ensure that everyone who needs a donation will get it on time. One of the main proposals of the Donation Study is to change the legislation so that it would be opened up to healthcare to carry out, in the final stage of life, medical interventions that may be needed to investigate a possible consent for donation and enable donation. There, the government sees problems with the investigation's proposals linked to the constitutionally protected right to consent to the care provided. Madam President, I have to say here that it is really a good thing that the government takes the self-determination of the individual very seriously, but the Minister is happy to develop the government's reasoning on this issue. I do not fully understand why the government believes that the investigation proposal does not take into account the individual's right to consent. The investigation suggests that consent to donation should also include medical interventions that may need to be made to enable donation. Thus, self-determination does not disappear with the investigation's proposal, but consent remains a requirement for efforts to be allowed to be made and for the donation to be made at the next stage. The Minister may respond a little more fully to why the Government has landed in this conclusion. Madam President, I would like The Minister correctly describes much of the development and situation in Sweden – that we have a good will to donate to the Swedish people. The Minister also correctly notes that there are quite large regional differences across the country in the number of donations and transplants carried out, but nowhere in the answer comes the concrete measures taken by the government to address the problems and shortcomings that the Minister himself apparently sees. The origin of my interpellation was that an investigation has presented a wide range of proposals. If I understand correctly, the government has rejected these proposals, and I ask: What other proposals does the government have? It is said that there will be a bill for organ donation in December. Is such a thing coming?
i-VyvxpR6CDMe4WodurUydyr	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for the interpellation! Let us begin with your introduction, that you thank for the answer but are disappointed in it. I am also disappointed that we have an investigation report that means that we cannot proceed with a proposal, as we had hoped we could, where we would have been able to increase the number of donations in Sweden through legislation. I'm disappointed about that, too. It is not that there is a malevolent government on one side that does not think it is good that we increase the donation will in Sweden and the number of people who can have organs transplanted and thus their lives saved. I believe and hope that everyone who has some sort of mission in this House will find this important. The analysis that has been done may I think took a long time, and I will explain a little more about the problem described. Having put myself into the question, I understand that there were quite a few positive responses from the referral bodies. It was based on an indication in one of the referrals that a more thorough analysis was then carried out. It was discovered that there is a problem here that is so serious that we will not be able to move forward on this basis. It concerns, as Johan Hultberg says, precisely the part that concerns consent. However, I am not here to say that the government does not intend to do anything else, pending the hope that we will be able to do even more eventually and have another basis to proceed with. Already today, Donation Week, organised by the National Board of Health and Welfare, is an excellent example of an effort that makes a powerful contribution to increasing the number of donations. The number of registrations in the donation register increases during the week. A few weeks ago I received a fantastic example from the Västra Götaland region, which in a fairly simple way, through its website, has increased the number of donations. On the website there is a button that you can click on. So there are other ways of working. The government will move forward with more proposals. Above all, the National Board of Health and Welfare will be given a mission that will strengthen their role in the issue of donation. The reason why, in this case, I could not spontaneously say yes to, for example, the possibility of facilitating the notification to the donor register in connection with passport, identity card or driving licence applications is not that I am fundamentally opposed to this, but today we do not have a basis for preparation. We must have that in order to be able to come forward with such a question. In that case, we need to ensure that it comes out. This is something I would like to highlight. A central issue in this investigation, as I said in my interpellation response, has to do with consent. It is a constitutionally protected right to consent to the care provided. In my next speech, I will return in more detail to what is lacking.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-320	Madam President, I would like Of course, I do not believe that the government is reluctant to improve the possibilities for organ donation, but I am absolutely convinced that we both share the desire to facilitate organ donation, that more lives should be saved and that more people should be able to live a life with a good quality of life that a new body can often contribute to. Madam President, I would like However, I must seriously question the government's initiative. This study was presented in 2015. Then there was a consultation round that ended in March 2016. Soon it will be 2018, but the government has not yet presented any concrete proposals. In this debate, the Minister only describes in very general terms that it intends to give a mission to the National Board of Health and Welfare to somehow get more people to sign up for the donation register. I am actually calling for concrete action here. It would have been a good thing if, for example, the Minister were to make my specific proposal to allow the registration of the donation register in connection with the licence, ID card or passport application, for example, to provide the basis for the decision that she claims to be missing today. Then it is not quite true that there is no basis. This was, after all, an issue which was partly the subject of the Organ Donation Investigation, although the investigation did not make a sharp proposal at the time, because it felt that the other proposals it had presented were sufficient. The organ donation investigation concluded that one of the most important things to achieve more organ donations is to improve the governance and management of healthcare and simply improve national coordination. There was also something that I asked about in my interpellation but still have not got a real answer to. It is therefore not a question of difficult balances linked to constitutionally protected rights, but of whether the government assumes its responsibility to improve the management and management of donation and transplantation activities. I hope that the Minister can give me some more concrete and clear answers as to how the government accepts this responsibility. That was one of the main issues. This is not a question of legal difficulties, but of the government's ability to manage and manage. To be quite clear, I interpret the Minister as saying that the bill that would have been tabled in December will not be presented but that the Minister's answer is that the questions need to be further prepared and that we may have to wait a few more years for a sharp proposal from the government.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-325	Madam President, I would like I can understand the disappointment that Johan Hultberg feels, and I also find it sad that we do not have a basis that allows us to come forward with legislation now. However, we will proceed with proposals aimed at strengthening national donation promotion. Above all, the National Board of Health and Welfare will be given a mission that will strengthen their role in the issue of donation. The Government is continuing to work on some of the proposals, and we hope that we will be able to come forward with some elements in spring 2018. I would like to return to the fact that the proposal made by Johan Hultberg regarding the registration of the donation register in connection with the licence, passport and ID card applications is not something to which I am opposed. However, we need to draw up a basis for consideration on this issue in order to be able to take a stand. As for the lack of analysis of the proposals, healthcare should not be provided in Sweden without the patient's consent. It is a right in the Constitution – the form of government – when everyone is protected from the general public against forced physical intervention. However, there is an exception to consent in the Patient Act, and this concerns urgent efforts to save the patient's life. However, the medical efforts proposed in the report are efforts to make donation possible and to enable them to be deployed after a statement that the patient's life can no longer be saved. The general rule therefore requires consent to the medical interventions proposed by the investigation. The investigation has proposed that a consent investigation be carried out. However, the consent to be investigated is consent to donation after the patient has died and not consent to medical intervention before death. Therefore, the patient is initially presumed to agree to the medical interventions needed for donation. The investigation is based on the large organisational will that exists in Sweden today. If it appears that the patient does not consent to donation, medical intervention should be discontinued. This means, however, that there is no consent to the medical interventions that have been initiated and continued in order to enable donation. Another problem with the investigation's proposal is that the consent investigation is proposed to be carried out in accordance with current rules and practices without further analysis of the consequences of the investigation. It is because only 16 percent of the population have made their will known in the donation register, as Johan Hultberg so well knows. Thus, close relatives of the patient are an important source of information on the patient's attitude toward donation. Then it is the latest expression of will that applies. Under the provisions in force, this circle of related parties is not defined. In addition, the relatives have a strong right of veto under the current rules and can change their attitude to donation until the transplant operation is performed. As a consequence of the proposals, the family members would have an influence on the medical interventions now being proposed without this having been analysed. In conclusion, we have come to the conclusion that the proposals are not compatible with the general rule, namely that consent to care is required, and the aforementioned constitutional provision. It would therefore be necessary to derogate from these provisions. If so, this requires a deeper analysis of the proposals, and there is no basis in the report to do so. I just want to draw this for Johan Hultberg. Then this information will also be provided from the Ministry to the Social Affairs Committee. But it is a well-founded assessment that is made in this part. I will come back to you in the next speech.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-334	Madam President, I would like The soundness of the government's conclusion and position is to be hoped for in view of the eternity it has taken to reach this conclusion. I respect this conclusion and really think it is very good and right for the government to take the constitutionally protected right of consent very seriously, although I believe that it is possible, if the will is there, to find proposals on how to change the legislation so that it can find a way forward. However, it is very possible that the government will make a completely correct assessment and that the proposal put forward by the investigation in that part was to the fullest. But it was not just legislative changes and so on that the investigation proposed, but much was just about governance and management. I therefore call for concrete action from the government. But again, in the midst of this, small proposals to allow the registration of the donation register in connection with the licence, passport or ID card application. I have respect for the fact that the Minister needs a preparation basis. But there was some evidence in the investigation. It is then up to the Minister and the Government to order this information. That is what I have asked you. Are the government and the minister prepared to do so? Will it be ensured that this preparation document is on the table for decision, or does it not think it is an important or interesting enough issue to go ahead with? I really think that we need to reverse every stone on this issue in order to remedy the great discrepancy that exists between the will of the Swedish people according to all the investigations and the actual outcome of how many have made their will known. Perhaps we should also look at the very great influence of relatives. The reasonable thing should be that it is the data in the register that weighs more heavily. I think so. Thank you for a good discussion.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-339	Madam President, I would like I thank Johan Hultberg for a good and very initiated debate. I appreciate the commitment. This is an incredibly important issue, and I think it is a great frustration for many of us who are involved in this to know that there is a great will that we have not succeeded in implementing sufficiently. As has already been said, we are looking at the possibility of developing legislative measures and bases for the legislative measures that can be taken further. What Johan Hultberg has pointed out is one such thing, but as I have been clear about today, it is also about carrying out other things and taking other paths. Among other things, it is about the role of the National Board of Health and Welfare and strengthening it in the national donation promotion work. I'll be watching things happen in this area. I thank you for a good debate and I am convinced that Johan Hultberg and others will be on for things to happen. Thank you, then, for a good debate.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-342	Madam President, I would like Eva Lohman has asked me how I intend to strengthen the conditions for people's education to achieve its four objectives. Folkbildning in the form of study associations and folk high schools has been an important part of building and developing Sweden in many different ways for a long time. The state's support for peoples' education is aimed, among other things, at strengthening democracy, enabling a greater diversity of people to influence their life situation, helping to smooth out educational gaps and increasing participation in cultural life. Statskontoret notes in its interim report from the ongoing evaluation of the education of the population that the four objectives of the state contribution to the education of the population are well anchored in the world of adult education. The report also shows that the objectives are achieved in the activities that Statskontoret has evaluated. As I see it, the results of the report thus point to the fact that people's education is already well placed to achieve its four objectives. An important question, however, is how we create the conditions for further strengthening peoples' education, not least in terms of reaching even more. The state makes significant resources available to peoples' education every year. In the 2018 budget proposal, the Government also proposes a significant increase in public education funding. The investments include the continued expansion of folk high schools with funds equivalent to 5,000 places. This means that during the term of office the government will have expanded the folk high schools with funds equivalent to 8 000 seats. This initiative has been warmly welcomed by folk high schools around the country, and I believe it will strengthen peoples' education. At the same time, the Government shares Statskontoret's assessment that a change in the composition of participants places new demands on the activities of folk high schools. This is a challenge shared by folk high schools with many other forms of education. The funds now proposed by the government for the expansion of sites are therefore calculated on the basis of a higher annual site cost compared to previous investments during the term. In addition, the Government proposes to strengthen the special educational support, which means, among other things, that people with various forms of disability who are in need of a support person will have greater opportunities to study at folk high school. I would like to stress that the state model for the distribution of state grants to peoples' education is based on strong confidence in the actors of peoples' education to give priority, shape and carry out their activities on their own. In this model, the Folkbildningsrådet has the government's mission to distribute and follow up the state grant to peoples' education. This is a model that serves the purpose of the state with the state contribution to the education of the people. As I mentioned, Statskontoret has noted that the education of the population already today achieves the four objectives of the state through its activities. In order for people's education to be able to reach even more with their activities, the government is now proposing major investments in, among other things, the expansion of the folk high school. My assessment is that it will further strengthen the business. As a result of the initiatives, I will continue to follow closely the developments and challenges facing people's education through a number of business visits.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-349	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I think that we are quite in agreement on the importance of people's education not only for people's development but also for society. In March 2014, the Alliance government presented the bill Alla's knowledge – everyone's education. It includes a new set of objectives for state education policy, which clarifies the state's ambitions with politics and that the target group of adult education is wider than the target group for adult education as a whole. The bill also presents a new model for evaluation of population formation and its effects. After all, the Alliance government felt that peoples' education had a very important role to play in society and that it was therefore important to evaluate it on a regular basis. It is an activity that receives extensive support in the form of state subsidies and at the same time contributes to society. Statskontoret was tasked with holding the evaluation together with support from, among other things, the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation and the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis. We have seen an interim report coming out, and a progress report has arrived quite recently. In April 2018, the evaluation will be carried out in its entirety, and I look forward to that. It is true that the interim report states that, in principle, the four objectives are achieved with the ability of folk high schools to contribute, but there are risks. One example is that the different groups do not always have the mix it says in order for them to have. It should be a mix of participants with different experiences; it is one of the basic ideas. Another risk Statskontoret takes up is that it is difficult to find teachers who have the right skills, i.e. teachers who have the competence to teach Swedish as a second language. There is a shortage in society as a whole today. Statskontoret also says that there is a risk that there are no teachers who can take on people with neuropsychiatric disabilities. You have to be very careful for that group to be included. The group of neuropsychiatric disabilities has also increased in recent years. In the general course on folklore, i.e. those who are from 15 weeks up and who will ensure that everyone gets primary or secondary school skills, newly arrived are over-represented. There is, of course, a danger in that when you see at the same time that there are no competent or competent teachers who can teach them. The lack of competence of teachers is therefore a problem. My question is: how does the Minister intend to strengthen the conditions for achieving the four objectives in the absence of so many competent and competent teachers?
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-357	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank Eva Lohman for the question. I very much appreciate the commitment she shows to education in general and to folk high schools in particular. Eva Lohman is quite right that the very large expansion of folk high schools that is now being done is something that includes both risks and opportunities. The education given at our folk high schools is to a large extent fantastic. I, who often visit folk high schools, meet students and participants who testify to how after many years of continuous school failure they have felt how it feels to succeed in their education – often for the first time in life. They have felt that they too can learn and that they too have a future that can be achieved through education. In a world and in a working life where basic upper secondary education is almost an entry ticket to the labour market, while the labour market screams at people with high school skills, it is almost impossible to overestimate the importance of folk high schools becoming the stepping stone to a high school qualification or the stepping stone to higher education for many people. It is also the case that we reach new groups through folk high schools. This can be described as risks, but it can also be described as very great opportunities, both for the participants and for our entire Swedish society. The large expansion we are now making of folk high schools means that new groups are reached. I think that's wonderful. I think it is good that more participants with different types of functional variations and sometimes disabilities can be reached. I am very pleased that in the budget bill that was put on Parliament's table a few months ago, the government was able to present proposals on how the education allowance can be strengthened and increased. I am also very pleased that in the budget proposal we are making a large expansion of folk high schools and the good opportunities we have to reach new groups. We also see that the large site expansion that is taking place to quite a large extent comes to the big cities. Our folk high schools are traditionally largely located in the country. Half of our municipalities have folk high schools, and folk high schools often have a long and solid business behind them. But what an opportunity it means when folk high schools can reach new groups and new parts of society through branches or through new folk high schools! Of course, this means more work for folk high schools. Just as obviously, the extension of seats that we are now doing, with 5 000 seats in this year's budget alone and 8 000 seats in the entire term of office, means that the possibility of reaching new groups is becoming greater. I am pleased that the extension is not only accompanied by a major investment in grants that will ensure that we can have a good pedagogy even for disabled people, but that we can also increase the location compared to what has been the case in the past. This shows that there are great opportunities for folk high schools to take advantage of the opportunity offered by all the new participants. What I think we should keep an eye on and ensure is that folk high schools not only reach new groups but that they can also create a new added value when the new groups meet the groups that traditionally exist within the folk high school. Folkhögskolan is since old our largest cultural arena. This unique mix can really mean a lot, both for folk high schools and for participants.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-367	Madam President, I would like I share the Minister's view. It is an important idea that people from different backgrounds should meet and thus both develop and be educated. However, the large increase in the number of places in folk high schools makes me fear that the Government's ambition is to hide people and that education remains a labour market policy measure. This is not the idea of folk high school courses. Folkhögskolan should not be a quick fix for statistics. How do you achieve the four purposes when you make such a large increase in the number of places? Statskontoret recently submitted a progress report. There, several principals say that those with neuropsychiatric disabilities go to school or participate in education in their own premises, not in the folk high school. There may be a need for this at times. More serious, I think, is that you have all the new arrivals together in one class. The meeting or the diversity that folk high school strives for will not happen if you have all new arrivals in a group. Then they miss these amazing meetings, which are so important. I am a little worried that the new arrivals are being hidden away and that these new places become a labour market policy measure. I think that the government has a blind spot when it comes to what is really absolutely fundamental: the driving force to work. This is the most important thing. The government claims that its policy leads to jobs. But independent assessors argue the opposite. If these proposals lead to jobs, why does the government never report this in its budget? I also wanted to mention something about general courses, which should be able to grant entry to primary and secondary schools, and about special courses, which can be niche courses on, for example, culture. When it comes to general courses, newly arrived students are over-represented, if they don't join a group of their own – I have a feeling that there will be more SFI education. In the case of special courses, however, new arrivals are very under-represented. It is above all culture that exists in these courses, so it is not good either. These four objectives, which are so important for the education of the people and for the activities of the folk high school, are not achieved. I'll stay here. What I fear is that the new places will become labour market policy measures and that people will be hidden away for the sake of statistics.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-377	Madam President, I would like Eva Lohman makes laudable attempts to claim that folk high school would be part of a conspiracy to hide the unemployed. I see it exactly the opposite. Research report after research report and study after study of the Swedish labour market shows with incredible clarity that a completed upper secondary school education is a very safe way into the labour market. We know that we have about 350 000 unemployed in Sweden while we have 100 000 vacant posts. The contacts I have with employers show quite clearly that what employers are asking for today is very often the education received through upper secondary education. At the same time, we have large groups who are unable to take a high school degree in one big step and who need to have several steps to do this. A variety of studies show that a secondary school degree acts as an entry ticket to the labour market. In this situation, to offer a large and substantial increase in the number of people's higher education places in order to ensure that there are as good opportunities as possible for young people and others to achieve the required upper secondary education is a good, sound and strong policy to ensure that the vacancies available can be filled with people who have the right training for the jobs. In her original speech, Eva Lohman also asked a question about the availability of teachers. This is a very good question. All the forms of education that we have in Sweden currently have a common problem, namely a crying lack of qualified, trained teachers. Here, folk high school is not an exception. It is a common task for all of us who are involved in Swedish school and education at different levels to ensure that the teaching profession is again an attractive profession that can attract many people not only to become teachers but also to come back to or continue to be teachers. When it comes to folk high school, Statskontoret's survey shows that the vice-chancellors really praise their teachers. They consider teachers' competence in adult education to be good. As much as 98 percent of the principals believe that teachers' subject knowledge is good. These are good grades for our fantastic folk high school teachers. But I am not going to underscore the fact that we also have a great need to ensure that not only the environment and not just the tasks but the entire workplace are so attractive that teachers stay. We also invest heavily in the development of skills. We have, as Eva Lohman is certainly aware, increased the state grant for teacher training in Swedish as a second language also to folk high schools, which is a welcome initiative. I would like to remind Eva Lohman that the government's investment in the 2018 budget bill is unprecedented in the 21st century. It is about a large expansion of the space, a large increase in the quality money for the places that exist and a large increase in the funds available precisely to support those participants who have different forms of disabilities, not least in the neuropsychiatric field.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-386	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer. This is good, and it is reassuring when I think of the competence development of teachers and Swedish as second language but also of teachers for those who have neuropsychiatric disabilities. There is a tendency throughout the education system that allows you to take a five-point course in Swedish 2, for example. But both SFI and Swedish 2 are advanced language courses, and it's not that easy. But if you have a teacher training and maybe other languages, it is easier to slip into Swedish 2. It's about teaching Swedish as a foreign language; that's the difference. So this is a good thing, and I look forward to seeing how this is to be resolved. But I know that the lack of teachers is a major problem throughout society and at all stages. I guess it's just hoping that folk high schools will do well. I have also read the report where the principals are satisfied with both methodology and pedagogy and that the teachers have subject competence. But at the same time they say in the report that it is Swedish 2 which is difficult. It is difficult to recruit and obtain teachers who can teach Swedish 2 and teachers who can teach students with neuropsychiatric disabilities. Maybe I'll have to send the minister a job. The minister says that she is out making many visits, and then she can look at what applies to those with neuropsychiatric disabilities. Are they taught in their own premises, or are they allowed to be with the others? Do you have homogeneous groups for new arrivals? Well, that's not good.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-391	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Eva Lohman for highlighting this important issue. I would also like to thank her for the strong commitment she has shown to the education of the people. The investment made in the budget bill is a very big investment. Only in the 2018 budget bill, the government invests SEK 771 million in public education. This is an extension of the number of seats. We are expanding with 5,000 seats in folk high school. It is about more paid per place, and it is about the special training support, which is being extended precisely for participants with disabilities. On top of that, we are investing heavily in many of the activities that our study associations provide. This initiative and this extension of course make demands on folk high schools. I make many visits, last weekend at Ädelfors nice folk high school and on Friday at Alma folk high school at Liljeholmen in Stockholm. I meet both principals, teachers and participants who welcome the initiative. They are happy about it, and they see it as a very great opportunity. I think that the concerns raised by Eva Lohman should be taken very seriously. But one should also be aware that there is a huge desire to contribute to a better society in our folk high schools. As I said, I am grateful for the commitment shown by Eva Lohman, and I am grateful that I have been able to take part in this pleasant debate. I wish Eva Lohman every success in her continued commitment to the education of the people. This is particularly true in my own party when I see the budgetary motion presented by the Moderates, where these 771 million are not matched by any bets on the part of the Moderates. So thank you for the debate and good luck with your continued work!
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-395	Madam President, I would like Johan Forssell has asked me when I and the government believe that the issue of mandatory social orientation during the period of asylum, which was part of the 2015 agreement on efforts in connection with the refugee crisis, can be resolved and how I and the government justify that the issue has been so long. In November 2015, the Government decided to instruct a special investigator to propose measures to create a coherent system for the reception and residence of asylum seekers and new arrivals. In May 2017, the mandate concerning, among other things, early interventions for asylum seekers was extended. Thus, in the framework of the original mandate, the reception investigation shall propose the design of an early intervention system, where day-to-day compensation is linked to participation. I agree with Johan Forssell that the issue of compulsory social orientation for asylum seekers is important, and I too wish that we had already had a uniform system in place for the reception of asylum seekers and new arrivals. But now that the Reception Investigation has been working for so long and soon I cannot justify that, alongside it, we will be working on, preparing and implementing a new system of mandatory social orientation for asylum seekers, as there is a risk that we will not fit in with the overall proposal that the investigation will submit. This doesn't mean the government is passive waiting for the investigation. In the 2018 budget bill, for example, the government proposed strengthening the funds for early intervention in order for asylum seekers and newcomers to have early and better access to information about Swedish society while waiting for residence. Furthermore, the government proposed that additional funds be added to Swedish from day one, which has been a successful initiative in which asylum seekers and new arrivals receive basic language training and social information via public education. The obligation is a complex issue, and how such a system could be designed depends on a number of other circumstances that the Reception Investigation is reviewing, such as where the asylum seekers are to live and which actors are to be responsible for the operation. Investigations are the basis for the preparation of proposals in Sweden, and for me it is important that we create a coherent system for the reception and residence of asylum seekers. Against this background, I believe that it is reasonable for the issue to be dealt with in the investigation. In July, the Receipt Investigation requested a five-month extension of the investigation period. In order to make the best and best possible proposal, the investigation has been extended and will submit its final report by 31 March 2018. That, Madam President, was my initial answer.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-401	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. There are many things in migration policy to discuss right now, I think, and to ask questions about to the Minister for Migration. We will have to return to them more times. This concerns an interpellation that I submitted a while ago and that concerns something that we decided to say the least a while ago: autumn 2015. At that time, a cross-block agreement was reached on migration which was subsequently followed by the temporary law, which was outside it. Most of this agreement has been implemented, and that is a good thing. Things that are agreed upon and decided upon should preferably be done. However, this does not have the important issue of mandatory public information for asylum seekers. This is an important issue, and it is a major shortcoming today. The investigation has also come to that conclusion in its later work. You can back up the band and say this: It affects many people. Many people are still enrolled in the reception system of the Finnish Immigration Service. There are still relatively many – at least not getting – people coming to Sweden and seeking asylum. We are now, in spite of all the tightening up of migration policy, in some kind of normal situation compared to a ten-year average. Here, Madam President, the investigation that we are going to talk more about has now come to the conclusion that the information provided today is subject to a wide range of problems and difficulties. There are no targets, there are few hours, it is low quality, it is not mandatory etcetera. That was the background to our agreement on this, and it was something that my party was pushing in that discussion. Now we're here, two years later, and there's still nothing, and when I say nothing, I don't mean anything. We have an investigation that has worked for two years and has now been extended to March next year. Then it's been two and a half years. Then, hopefully, the government will make a bill and a legislative referral of this. I find it difficult to see how to get anything at all that comes into force in this parliamentary term – about something that we have actually agreed. That's not good. It is not good from a factual point of view, because this information had already been needed for asylum seekers. There is a long list of reasons for this. It is also not good because when you make joint decisions and make agreements you have to take care of it. I understand that Heléne Fritzon has taken on the mission as Minister of Migration with that particular ambition – to have a good climate for conversation and to try to find common solutions. I welcome it, but I find it strange how this issue has been dealt with. I can also note that when we reached an agreement with the government last spring, we agreed that there would be a memo that could be sent out for consultation before the summer. Then I read in the newspaper the news that the government has now given six months more time to this investigation, where our common issue lies – without having made any contact or trying to anchor it with us who were involved in making the decision together with the government. I would like to put the question to Heléne Fritzon: is the Minister for Migration satisfied with how this issue has been handled by the government?
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-412	Madam President, I would like As Johan Forssell points out, the government has implemented most of the efforts included in the agreement signed between the government, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats. Some of the efforts are still being investigated, and the question that Johan Forssell raises about the mission of mandatory social orientation is one of the issues that is not yet addressed. There is nothing, says Johan Forssell. That's not really true. Although we do not have an obligatory, 86 per cent of men and 85 per cent of women participated in the Migration Board's group information for asylum seekers in 2016. It does not fully live up to mandatory social orientation, but it is nevertheless important to say that it includes information on what is required during the asylum period, but also concerns housing, economics, health care and preschools and schools. It informs about certain Swedish legislation – freedom of the press and expression, freedom of religion, equality, children's rights, prohibition of discrimination and more. The Government considers it important that asylum seekers receive information about Swedish society, the basics of the Swedish system, gender equality and the rights and obligations of the individual as quickly as possible. Therefore, I would like to take this opportunity to mention a series of measures that strengthen the establishment of new arrivals in Sweden, in response to Johan Forssell on the stand that there is nothing. In February this year, the County Administrative Boards were given responsibility for the coordination of early interventions for asylum seekers and persons with residence permits who remain in the Migratio National Board's housing facilities. In the 2017 Budget Bill, the Government strengthened funds for early intervention for asylum seekers to promote knowledge of the Swedish language and about Swedish society. Now, ahead of the 2018 budget, the government is proposing a further increase in early intervention appropriations in order to provide asylum seekers and newcomers with early and better access to information about Swedish society. In the 2018 budget proposal, there are also proposals for additional funds that will be allocated to Swedish from day one. It is a successful initiative, where asylum seekers and newcomers receive basic language training and community information. Since its inception in August 2015 until December 2016, more than 120,000 unique participants have received basic language training and social information via the public education initiative Swedish from day one. There are constant steps in this direction. Otherwise, I look forward to the receiving inquiry, to which I referred in my reply.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-417	Madam President, I would like I am struck by the thought: if everything is as good as the Minister for Migration says, why has this agreement been concluded? There are two points I would like to make. The first is that it actually does not work well enough today. The investigation has confirmed that. There are currently no demands to participate, and it is far from everyone who does. There are no targets. There are relatively few hours involved. Quality does not everywhere meet the requirements that it is reasonable to make, and so on. Then I'm sure you can change this a little. It may be attempted to provide more information, etcetera, but it does not change the fact that participation is not mandatory today. There is no way to demand participation in this. That is why we in the Moderates pushed this so hard in the agreement. The second point I want to make is that we should try to implement what we agree on. Today it has been two years since we agreed and took this in hand. Now it's gonna be another five months before there's even an investigation. I ask myself, when will this be in place? When will we see a change and that it actually becomes an obligatorium? This is what we agreed on in autumn 2015. I don't ask these questions because I want to be a pain in the ass or fight. I ask the questions because I think this is important. This is about people who come to Sweden directly on arrival to understand which laws, rules and standards apply in Swedish society – how what will become their new home country works. That is, of course, also a support for this. I also believe that the Minister for Migration is well aware of the sometimes unfortunately serious problems that have existed at the Migration Agency's accommodations regarding, for example, gender equality and the role of men and women in society. We see that this could be an important contribution to putting an end to it. When you do common things across the block border, you have to care for them. There is a particular responsibility on the part of the parties actually in government. We have put this issue before us. As late as last spring we took in hand that there would be material that we could send out for referral before midsummer. But there was a material that did not at all meet the required quality, and we agreed that it could not be sent out. Then the answer was that we Moderates would have to wait a little longer but that it would finally come in October. But as October approached, I read in the newspaper that it would now be delayed by another six months. Does the Minister of Migration really think that this is a good way of caring for joint agreements? I hope not. I hope that the government can learn from this. Only yesterday we were told that we want a broad agreement on the issue of unaccompanied minors. It can be said that the starting point is not very good when we stand here after two years and there is not even an investigation proposal on what should have already been done. Does the Minister think that the government has handled this well? I would like an answer to that.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-426	Madam President, I would like The government has been working intensively on these issues ever since the very tough year 2015, I would say. It was also in this light that the agreement between the parties was signed. I am pleased that both me and Johan Forssell can conclude that the government has actually implemented most of the points that were included in the joint agreement. Then I am as keen as Johan Forssell that joint agreements should be maintained, and we should also ensure that they are implemented in every way. This is, of course, ultimately the responsibility of the government. In the interpellation debate, I have also had room to explain the reasons for the fact that this particular issue of compulsory social orientation has not yet been implemented and is included as an obligatorium. It is simply a matter of the fact that the large and very comprehensive Receiving Investigation, which also has a very broad foundation in the Riksdag, also includes the task of early intervention. Now that we are so close to receiving the proposals of the investigation, I hope that we will be able to stand here in a fairly short time and jointly state that we can also reach the point of the agreement on compulsory social orientation. The order is – and Johan Forssell knows this well – that we will receive the final report of the investigation on 31 March 2018. It is then up to the government to assess which proposals we might wish to proceed with. It can then result in a bill. Once the investigation has submitted its final report, there may also be reason for us to engage in a dialogue on the way in which we proceed with the proposals that come from the investigation, by virtue of the joint agreement. Although I have not been in the government all this time, I have to say that I am impressed by the work that the country of Sweden, the government and we in the Swedish Parliament have done together in order to manage an asylum reception where Sweden was the country in Europe that stood for the greatest reception, as well as that we have such high ambitions for how asylum reception should be done. It is a great pleasure for me to hear that Johan Forssell is also expressing this. So the Minister is not in any way satisfied. But when Johan Forssel l says that there is nothing, it gives me a space to tell you about all the measures that have been decided, on the go and planned for us to reach all parts of the agreement.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-433	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister for Migration is pleased with the work of the Government. That is an important point. However, I do not feel that I can really share that view, at least after the clarification that the government would have worked intensively on this issue. Let me just remind you that we are standing here two years after we agreed, and there is actually nothing of the obligatory that we agreed on. That's what I meant by nothing. That is what is at the heart of this: the obligatory. We held hands two years ago. So it should be two and a half years before there is even an investigation. It's not working hard. I'm sorry, but it's not really that. You can't describe it that way. Here it has been drawn out for reasons I do not know about. Nor do I think that today the Minister has properly identified why it should take an exceptionally long time: two and a half years. It's a complicated question, yes. But there are many issues that are complex, which can be investigated much faster than this. Actually, I think it's a little troubling. The government has a rhetoric about wanting cross-block agreements. I think that's good. But once it burns to and when it comes to implementing what other parties have been running – we were the ones who were driving this – it seems to be a little bit like this and so with the implementation. I still wonder: does the Minister think that the government has handled this well? I am thinking of the time aspect, but also of the fact that the parties are not anchored in the agreement on what is happening in the matter, but they are allowed to read it in the newspaper. I would also like to ask: can the Minister give a clear answer as to whether the obligatory will be able to enter into force during this term of office?
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-438	Madam President, I would like I made it clear that I am in no way satisfied. We do not yet have all the questions at hand. I hope that Johan Forssell will hear this. On the other hand, I am impressed by the efforts made by our entire society. I am not standing here today saying that I am only satisfied with the actions of the government. There are many out in the community organisation – the Migration Agency, civil society, municipalities, county councils and regions – who every day take a huge responsibility for the work and introduction of our asylum seekers and new arrivals to work well. I do not think that Johan Forssell should minimize the efforts made. I mentioned the example of Swedish from day one. It is a very successful initiative made by the education of the people. There, more than 120 000 unique participants have received both basic language training and community information. I think it is important to highlight this. There are additional measures, such as opportunities for traineeships. It is a very good tool for increasing knowledge of both language and social information. There is an intervention about Swedish during parental leave. It has the same purpose. There are a number of measures that together make us step forward. I would like to conclude by thanking Johan Forssell for the interpellation. I hope that we both look forward to the final report of the Receiving Investigation this spring. I also wish to see a dialogue on how to then formulate any proposals in the light of the agreement we have made between the government and the bourgeois parties. Thank you for the debate.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-441	Madam President, I would like Maria Stenergard has asked me whether I and the government will take any steps to increase the possibilities for distance measurement. Whoever owes money should not be able to withhold it. It is important that the enforcement of judgments and decisions is effective in cases where the debtor does not pay his debt on his own. The enforcement authority therefore needs to have good tools to be able to foreclose property. Another prerequisite for the Swedish Enforcement Authority to be able to work effectively is collaboration with other authorities. As Maria Malmer Stenergard describes, there is a hotline that, among other things, the police can use to alert the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten to assets that can be remotely measured. Co-operation with the authorities is important in the fight against organised crime, not least in order to get to grips with criminal gains. It is a priority for the government, and cooperation has gradually been stepped up. In this context, I would also like to mention that we have introduced increased confiscation possibilities. The new rules have made it easier to confiscate money found in criminal contexts but which cannot be linked to a specific specific crime. The Government is currently preparing the report of the Enforcement Investigation A more modern enforcement procedure. The investigation makes many proposals to modernise and improve the activities of the Swedish Enforcement Authority. Furthermore, the study concludes that there are efficiency gains with increased distance measurement possibilities. At the same time, the report highlights other considerations that need to be taken into account if the police are to play a greater role in the enforcement procedure. Among other things, the investigation addresses the risk of criminal gains being washed by foreclosure. For the government, it is important that there is a regulatory framework that enables effective foreclosures. I do not wish to pre-empt the preparatory work in progress, but I note that the investigation and the views of the consultation bodies provide the government with a good basis for a future position on increased opportunities for distance measurement. That is my initial answer.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-448	Madam President, I would like I would, of course, like to begin by welcoming Heléne Fritzon to Parliament's Chamber. It is our first debate here, and it is always very fun to debate with another Kristianstadbo. I would also like to thank you for your answer. This interpellation is about how we can give the Swedish Enforcement Authority the tools needed to enable them to contribute to citizens, companies and authorities being able to get paid for what they are supposed to be paid for. It should not be easy for those who have debts to retain valuable property and thus escape their obligation to pay. Society must do what it can for the victim to receive compensation, for the maintenance allowance to be paid and for the person who refuses to pay his tax to actually do so. Serious organized crime is constantly finding new ways. It places demands on legislation and on the authorities to actually keep up with it. The enforcement officer has long asked for increased possibilities for distance measurement. If they did, they would be able to collect more debts. Since the Kronofogden set up its hotline, property of great value has been secured through so-called distance measurement, mainly thanks to closer cooperation with the police. For example, cash or jewellery seized in the middle of the night by the police may be foreclosed when a debtor has been arrested. This interpellation aims at a hole in the legislation that sometimes means that valuable property cannot be foreclosed. If the police, for example in a routine check, stop a indebted person with a valuable car, they cannot keep the car unless they have the support of their own legislation to do so. Thus they are forced to release the person with the valuable car even if they know that the person is in debt. It has to sting in people's eyes. It shouldn't be so easy not to do the right thing. I fear that this also undermines public confidence in the authorities. Rather, it would be reasonable for the police to call Kronofogden, learn about the debts, and keep the car. As early as 2014, Kronofogden made suggestions on how to overcome this. And they only highlighted in April this year the need in their referral to the inquiry into new enforcement rules. So that's the background to my interpellation. Will the government take any steps to increase the possibilities for distance measurement? That's my question. I do not get a direct answer to my question, but I note that the Minister's response highlights the importance of a regulatory framework that allows for effective foreclosures. That's good. Distance measurement is an important issue that is raised in the investigation and on which the government has to decide. However, there are other important suggestions in the investigation.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-455	Madam President, I would like I think that Maria Stenergard and I agree very much on this issue, but I would still like to take this opportunity to describe that there are balance points on this issue. On the one hand, it is important that the Swedish Enforcement Authority has good tools to carry out its work. It's about both finding assets and fortifying what you find. Then it is important that there is cooperation between the Swedish Enforcement Authority and other authorities. On-call telephone, as Maria Malmer Stenergard points out, is a successful one. As regards the work against organised crime, the Enforcement Authority has an important role to play. It is an important signal to send out that crime does not pay, and there are status symbols today, such as cars, clocks and cash, which can actually be picked by the criminals as an asset in that mission. Foreclosure is a good way to access the assets that can be linked to crime, but on the other hand, and there is the second point of balance, the work of the Enforcement Authority often affects the private sphere of individuals, which requires that the agency's actions are proportionate and respect the privacy of individuals. The vast majority of those with unpaid debts are not criminals. It is good that the police can help the Swedish Enforcement Authority, but before we give the police even more tasks, it must also be considered whether it is the best use of the police's resources. That is such a question. It must also be borne in mind that different authorities have different tasks. The enforcement investigation also highlights the risk that individuals may hesitate to seek help from the police for fear that their things will be foreclosed. Even that is a dimension that you have to carry with you. The question of increased distance measurement is, however, part of the wider question of how the Swedish Enforcement Authority's work can be more effective. The government will look at these issues on the basis of the investigation. In the preparatory work, the views of the consultative bodies, as well as the experiences and ideas of cooperation between authorities in the fight against organised crime, will also be important. I cannot promise a timetable today, but my speech is an expression of the Government's ambition in the area on which Maria Stenergard is asking the question.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-463	Madam President, I would like From the point of view, perhaps this might seem to be a minor question. But the fact is that a change in the regulatory framework for distance measurements could have quite significant consequences. The bailiff himself has made a conservative calculation, and then it has come to the conclusion that the amount of property measured by another authority could be tripled compared to today, and so today it is already millions of dollars that we are talking about and that is being received through Kronofogden's on-call activities. In 2014, Kronofogden's hotline received 235 calls from the police where they had to refrain from foreclosure for this reason, despite the fact that there were debts. And it's just the hotline. There is also what could happen during the day and which is not included in those statistics. In his reply to me, H elé ne Fritzon highlights the importance of collaboration between authorities, and that is incredibly important. For example, the enforcement officer, the police and Customs have had very successful projects where they have been able to use each authority's own authority and have been able to collaborate and access more property thanks to this. The improved collaboration creates opportunities, but it also highlights the obstacles that exist to a more efficient operation. The b bordered possibility of dist ansutmätning is such an obstacle. In the past, the Kronofogden has proposed the possibility of distance measurement with the help of the police. In their referrals from last spring, they believe that it could also include Customs, Coast Guard and other law enforcement authorities. I see very great opportunities here to tackle serious organised crime in a more effective way. It is also about more people being able to become debt-free and more people being able to get paid. The Minister highlights the considerations that have been made in the investigation and which are of course very important. The investigation therefore does not propose greater opportunities for distance measurement, which I feel is a pity. For example, it is about the importance of money not being laundered by using crime profits to pay debts. Here I think it is important to point out that it is still the Swedish Enforcement Authority with its special competence that should take these foreclosure decisions and no one else. The study also highlights the risk that increased opportunities for distance measurement would create additional work. It is quite self-evident, but if further efforts were to result in more people being paid and some of you becoming debt-free, it would still have to be considered as priority work. The risks in terms of public confidence in the authorities and in the judiciary are probably much greater if you stand still and watch the property of the debtor disappear out of sight compared to spending a little extra resources on ensuring that society actually works. Finally, I find it difficult to understand the reference to the increased possibilities of forfeiting money that cannot be linked to a crime. If we are able to confiscate money which cannot be linked to a specific crime, then we really should be able to foreclose money that can be linked to a certain debt. Otherwise, confiscation and foreclosure are two completely different things, so how does the Minister think that the increased possibilities for confiscation of property are linked to this interpellation and the problems of the limited possibilities for distance measurement?
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-473	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking you very much for the question. It is incredibly important for us to have this discussion, and, as I said in my second speech, there are balance points in this. As Maria Malmer Stenergard points out, the enforcement investigation has concluded that increased distance measurement would promote efficiency. At the same time, the assessment concludes that the requirement for possession should be maintained and that the proposal of the Enforcement Authority should not be implemented. We have the round of consultations which shows in every way that the proposal has been well received, even though there are consultation bodies that point in the direction that Maria Malmer Stenergard addresses, namely the question of distance measurement. The Swedish Enforcement Authority, the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Economic Crime Authority do not agree with the conclusion of the investigation, but believe that these increased possibilities for distance measurement should be given. Further work will focus on analysing the study's proposals, evaluating the different views of the consultation bodies and then returning with any proposals in connection with the report. I think it is important that the issue be highlighted. I think it has been a very clear and clear debate on the part of Maria Stenergards, and I can assure you that I have the issue on the agenda.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-478	Madam President, I would like As I said at the outset, society must constantly stand on its toes to combat crime. When organised crime moves its positions forward, society must react and keep up with it. When society has been given a mission that is determined – to recover a debt – society must also have the opportunities to do so. It sticks in the eyes of people when people with large debts hold valuable property. The fact that the Public Prosecutor is allowed to refrain from enforcing valuable property because of legal difficulties is detrimental to public confidence in the rule of law. In the end, we are talking about victims who are not paid, about maintenance that is not paid, and about tax evasion that is getting away with it. We must never accept that. Of course, we must also maintain the perspective of legal certainty; I fully agree with that. I would like to thank you for the debate. I look forward very much to the government's position in the future, and I hope that they will listen to their own authority in this case.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-481	Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by giving some good examples of the investigation, which also relate to the effectiveness of the organisation. The investigation points to the importance of the police primarily examining whether found property should be forfeited. Money and other assets arising from crime should primarily be forfeited and not be used by the criminal to pay debts, as Maria Malmer Stenergard has emphasised in her speeches. We will look at these issues in the preparation of the report of the investigation. Maria Malmer Stenergard has stressed in every way the value of cooperation between authorities. There is also an electronic exchange of information between the Swedish Enforcement Authority and other authorities. It provides increased opportunities in a collaboration to check in a good way whether any part or all of the sum can be foreclosed. The enforcement investigation considers that the Enforcement Authority should have an increased electronic exchange of information with more authorities. The investigation also presents the possibility that criminal investigation authorities could have access to parts of the Swedish Enforcement Authority's database and do electronic checks. There are many elements to this that can contribute to an effective foreclosure. With this, I think that Maria Malmer Stenergards's interpellation contributes in every way to the development of the issue.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-484	Madam President, I would like Jeff Ahl has asked me what considerations I am making to ensure the objectivity of the choice of migration investigators. At the outset, I would like to point out that the decision to appoint investigators is taken on a factual basis after careful consideration. The investigator must of course have training and experience suitable for the current assignment. A clear and important goal for the government is also that the assignments should be distributed as evenly as possible between women and men. Guidelines and starting points for the investigation mission are formulated and defined in the directives that the Government decides for the investigator. In the directives, the Government also decides on the details of the investigation work. The responsible minister appoints the other persons to participate in the investigation work in various functions. Often, for example, departmental officials, but also officials from relevant authorities and stakeholder organisations as well as academics, such as experts or experts, participate in the investigation. Finally, the proposals from the investigator may be sent to the relevant authorities and stakeholder organisations for their comments. The public also has the right to comment. After such a consultation, the Government will decide on how to proceed with the investigation's proposals. Against this background, I believe that I am well placed to ensure that the government's decision-making bases are both objective and objective and of good quality.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-489	Madam President, I would like We see how the remains of the once-safe folk home are being dismantled at an ever-faster pace by the anti-Sweden and globalist social elite that governs the political discussion as well as the actual policy in Sweden. We see this in actual politics. For example, the so-called Pensions Group, which includes the Social Democrats and also the Moderates, has decided to raise the retirement age for the Swedes – this to finance the continued migration policy chaos. We see a health care in a crisis where children's health is seriously damaged, where children have even died because of the overload that the health care system has suffered. This, too, is largely attributable to the migration policy direction pursued by current and former governments. We also see how low-wage jobs – previously criticised by the Social Democrats – have been negotiated by trade unions in collaboration with the business community. I do not know what time in the order the unions betray Swedish workers, but it is worth noting that the Social Democrats are LO's parliamentary branch. What does this have to do with the matter itself? Well, that points to where the government wants to go. The investigation aims to investigate so-called limbo cases, enforcement obstacles and other matters. The question is whether it is appropriate to hire an asylum activist as an investigator. A simple googling would have shown what personal opinions this person has. It's not very serious. In addition, the investigation itself is completely unnecessary. It is only one way for the government to justify future amnesty proposals like what was announced yesterday; full-grown Afghan men who have previously claimed to be children should be allowed to stay in Sweden. It is also serious to waste tax money on hiring a person who is clearly moving in a sphere inspired by the ideological preferences of the Green Party. This shows the nepotism and corruption that have crept into the Swedish Government where investigators' jobs, coordination services and other services are distributed to people on the basis that they have the right political opinion and nothing else. As far as the investigation itself is concerned, it is serious to have enforcement obstacles investigated rather than to solve enforcement barriers. Has the government forgotten that there are diplomatic tools to influence those countries that refuse to accept their own citizens? Is the government aware that it is possible to establish transit agreements with countries to receive persons? My concern about the investigation concerns the Moroccan street criminals found in the big cities. Instead of problematising the situation, I believe that the citizens should be sent to Morocco. Do it the boat route if necessary and put the people ashore. They are citizens of Morocco, not ours. We have no responsibility for these people; they are Morocco's responsibility. The government orders investigations that are not needed instead of doing things that can actually be done. The investigation shows that the government intends to continue on its way towards amnesty. It will put pressure on our social security systems and health care. We will continue to see people in the Swedish healthcare queue with great care needs. It was noted that those who arrived during the migration policy chaos in 2015 had a great need for medical care, which, of course, came to be a strain on health care. If the Minister has not read the report, I suggest that the Minister read the reports produced by MSB on the subject.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-497	Madam President, I would like Jeff Ahl, the Swedish Democrats, has asked me a question in the interpellation debate about what considerations I, as a minister of state, am doing to ensure the objectivity of the choice of investigators in the area of migration. However, Jeff Ahls's speech contained very little on that particular issue. Instead, Jeff Ahl, the Swedish Democrats, devoted himself to genuine contempt for fundamental democratic values, genuine contempt for trade union organisations and, finally, genuine contempt for the Swedish investigative system. Nevertheless, I would like to take the original question seriously by telling Jeff Ahl why we set up the investigation into practical enforcement barriers. We have then taken into account all the demands for objectivity in the appointment of investigators. The starting point is that those who have been refused their application for a residence permit should leave Sweden and return as soon as possible, and the responsibility for doing so lies primarily with the individual. Then there are a number of people who remain in Sweden for longer periods with removal decisions that are not enforced for various reasons. Therefore, it is important for the government to examine the reasons and reasons behind it. It is also important to combat situations in which persons who have been refused their asylum application without fault end up or remain in a situation where a removal decision cannot be enforced. The Government therefore wanted to examine the existence and application of the law in such situations. The investigation is part of the government's work to monitor return work. For this we have set up a special investigation with an investigator.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-500	Madam President, I would like You should put the questions in their context. The interesting thing here is why the government has appointed a profiled asylum activist as investigator. There is a clear agenda for that. This was evident not least yesterday when the government gave amnesty to adult Afghan men who have claimed to be children. As far as attacks on trade unions are concerned, it is not strange to criticise them because they negotiate low-wage jobs with reference to the very crisis that they have been involved in. Low-wage jobs will also mean wage pressure for Swedish workers. That is also something that needs to be taken into account. As I said, you should not pull things out of their context, but instead put things into a context. It is you who show contempt for the investigative instrument when you use it to give jobs to those who are ideologically close to you for an investigation that is not needed. It is also clear that the government finds it difficult to understand what foot it should stand on in migration policy. It is claimed that migration policy is being tightened up, but then amnesty is being given and an investigation is being carried out to investigate enforcement barriers, which it is responsible for maintaining them. Rather, the government shows total paralysis in this area when it does not use the diplomatic instruments available to solve enforcement barriers. Instead, you order an investigation just to give an asylum activist a job. It should be remembered that this asylum activist lives in an upper class area free of multiculturalism. I don't know, but maybe she had trouble finding a regular job or something like that, so you just had to give her a government job. I wouldn't be surprised. The important thing is to put the security of our own people first. The current migration policy and the investigations and amnesties distributed to the right and left show that the government has no intention of putting its own population's security first.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-507	Madam President, I would like Jeff Ahl continues with the attack on the Swedish investigation system. However, I have to assume that Jeff Ahl as a Member of Parliament is still well acquainted with the investigative services and also with the quality work carried out by the Government Office in order to constantly improve the quality of the investigation work. Examples include the work of committee services. Committee services are tasked with providing support for investigations and also offer quality development through training and other expertise. This is a very basic part of the Swedish system for how we prepare proposals and cases. This is a very ugly attack on one of our investigators. Perhaps my answer is not primarily addressed to Jeff Ahl, who has already made up his mind. However, for those who follow the debate it may still be important to know that the investigator referred to is Anna Lundberg. She has a solid academic background. At the time of her appointment, she was Associate Professor of Human Rights at Malmö University. She has a research background that fits well into the mission. Anna Lundberg is also now a professor of welfare law at Linköping University. It is amazing that someone is writing an interpellation on the basis that the government appoints one, as Jeff Ahl put it, as an asylum activist. But I guess it fits into the context of the Swedish Democrats, and based on it the interpellation is well set. I would also like to add and say that when investigations are carried out they are assisted by an investigative secretary who often has expert knowledge in investigations, in this case experience of migration law. It also appoints experts from the Government Office and experts who are drawn from the various areas of responsibility that concern the investigation. In this investigation, we are talking about the Migration Court, the Migration Service and the Police Authority. I mention this on account of the interpellation and in order to get a good picture of how the investigative system is actually constructed and how it works.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-512	Madam President, I would like Again, the Minister shows that it is completely impossible for the government to put things into a context. It is you who abuse the investigative services with investigations that are not needed. Rather, it shows the paralysis of the government. You will not solve the enforcement obstacles involved in the investigation. Instead, you spend money on an investigation that is not necessary. Use the diplomatic tools you have! This is also about dealing with tax revenue carefully. You shouldn't use tax money for things that aren't needed. It is again about putting things into a context. With this investigation and with other political decisions, the government has shown that it has enormous difficulty in keeping a firm migration policy line. One day, the border shall be open. On the second day, you'll have to close the border with us. On the third day it will be amnesty, and you will have investigations investigating enforcement barriers to extend the possibilities for even more amnesties. Madam President, I would like It is important for the electorate that it is clear what political options exist today. There are really only two options: either one that builds up the welfare state and the folk home again. Or they vote for the Social Democrats and the Moderates who are known to make themselves support parties for the Green Party, the Center Party and those parties that have very extreme views on the issue of immigration, where open borders are a recurring argument. It is becoming apparent once again now that an investigator is being appointed who is involved in the kind of organisations that we all understand have contacts even higher up in the various political parties. It is no secret that corruption and nepotism are involved in this decision.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-517	Madam President, I would like Jeff Ahls's final jump isn't even worth commenting on, but I'll still be polite and thank you for the interpellation debate. I have presented the government's view of the investigation system, which also has support in the Swedish parliament. On the general policy issues raised by Jeff Ahl, the government makes its own assessment. The Swedish Democrats often make a completely different assessment. This is how our democracy works. Madam President, I would like As I said, I have given answers to the interpellier's questions and would therefore like to close the debate.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-520	Madam President, I would like Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me what direction the government has taken and how the scientific assessment has been taken into account when the proposal for the renewal of the approval of glyphosate has been dealt with in the Standing Committee. The answer to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson's question can be found in the answers I gave on 1 November to question 2017/ 18:147 by Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler (M) The government's position regarding glyphosate and question 2017/ 18:174 by Eskil Erlandsson (C) The government's position on glyphosate. I am therefore expressing selected parts of this response. EU Member States have to consider a proposal from the European Commission for a renewed approval of glyphosate. Treatment is carried out in the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed. The European Chemicals Agency, ECHA, has carefully reviewed all available studies on glyphosate and concluded that there are no grounds for classifying glyphosate as carcinogenic. Echas's conclusion complements the previous work of the European Food Safety Authority (Efsa). The Government considers it important to respect scientific assessments and to comply with the rules. The government also considers it important that approval can gain broad acceptance among Member States and among citizens. It is important that we take seriously the concerns about environmental risks associated with glyphosate. At the same time, farmers need time to switch to alternative methods. The European Commission had submitted a proposal to the committee meeting on 25 October to continue the approval of glyphosate for 10 years. At the meeting, a number of table rounds were made in which the Member States jointly discussed the issue. It was clear at an early stage that the Commission's proposal did not have sufficient support among the countries, and no vote was held. At the Committee meeting on 9 November, a vote was held on the Commission's revised proposal for five years' approval. Sweden voted in favour. In order to further promote a compromise that many countries can gather around, Sweden made a proposal that the studies already carried out on glyphosate should be complemented by a study on the impact of glyphosate on ecosystems. At the meeting, Member States were unable to agree on a decision. I hope that the President-in-Office will agree that I am slightly different from the text previously submitted to the reply, because then there has been another meeting. There the Commission again proposed five years' approval, which this time won a qualified majority. Sweden also voted in favour of this meeting.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-527	Madam President, I would like It is almost 7 p.m., and the Minister for the Environment is in the Chamber to debate glyphosate. That the minister spends his Tuesday nights here is soon so common that you can set your watch after that. Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my interpellation! However, the text of the answer is written as if we were back in mid-November, a few weeks ago. Since the interpellation was written – and the answer, may I say – an agreement has been reached at EU level, which says that glyphosate can be used in the European Union for at least five more years. I am glad that this has been agreed. Glyphosate, despite its name, may sound dangerous and alien, is one of the world's most widely used plant protection products. In Sweden, it is the most widely used. In addition, it can be mentioned that glyphosate is an active substance which, at least to some extent, substitutes other, more dangerous alternatives such as chlor-organic compounds. Glyphosate is also approved, as the Minister points out in his reply, by both the European Food Safety Authority (Efsa) and the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA). It is these two bodies that usually form the basis of the Swedish position on chemicals. The tradition of listening to scientific expertise rather than politicians going on the gut or allowing interest groups to dictate the conditions ensures that industries that depend on plant protection have long-term, predictable rules of play. Here the government has swung something, even though the government knows that our use of glyphosate is already restrictive, despite the fact that the government knows that conventional cultivation requires effective plant protection and that the government knows that we have a shorter season than in southern Europe and therefore has a little fewer crops to choose from. On the table of the Committee there have been various proposals: it has been ten years, and it has been five years. On 25 October, Sweden refused to extend the authorisation by ten years, and on 9 November it voted in favour of an extension of five years. It seems that the government has played a little bit of games with the Swedish position on the matter. My follow-up question to Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog, now that there is a final agreement and decisions have been made, is: What has the government pushed for in the committee? Has the government pushed for it to be five years? I want a clear answer here. Have you been pushing for ten originally, or have you said five from the beginning? Does the government believe that, with the action it has taken, it has complied with the mandate given by the Parliament of the EU Council?
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-534	Madam President, I would like I was going to start by giving some more background to how this type of decision is handled. There are committees in which the Member States vote with a voter power based on the number of citizens. A qualified majority is required for proposals to be accepted. A certain number of countries representing a certain number of citizens are required for a proposal to go through. It is normal and common for this type of substance to be approved for fifteen years at a time. In this case, however, the Commission based its assessment on sharp criticisms made by the European Parliament, which believes that glyphosate should be phased out and that five years is an appropriate phase-out period, and on a citizens' initiative submitted to the Commission, which has achieved the 1 million signatures required for its formal handling. In view of these two conditions, the Commission first presented a proposal for a ten-year extension. Near the meeting, on the afternoon of 25 October, the Commission, through our contacts at the Brussels Representation, opened up for a shorter approval by responding, among others, to Sweden's view of the possibility of approving only for five years. We interpreted this – it was a reasonable interpretation – as the Commission's assessment that ten years would not get a sufficient majority, which also proved to be true very early at the meeting held on 25 October. I have to correct Skalberg Karlsson, who claimed that Sweden voted against. There were no votes at the meeting on 25 October, but so-called table rounds. It is when you walk the table around and country after country you have to give your view on both the proposal and ways forward. Before the first round was completed, it was clear that ten years would not win a large enough majority. Sweden's representative then, in accordance with the instructions, opened up the possibility of making a shorter extension, as at the time this appeared to be the only possible way forward. As far as Sweden is concerned, it has been important in this process that EU countries should be able to reach a sufficient majority and take decisions in accordance with the arrangements laid down. In the event that Member States fail to reach a sufficient majority, the matter is left to the Commission. Unfortunately, it has happened several times recently that the Member States have failed to agree in the same way on decisions so that the matter has been submitted to the Commission, against the system. This is a development that I find worrying, and that is why we have been working to find a large enough majority to allow some form of approval to be given in a decision by the Member States.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-541	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is clear that from the first meeting, even before voting on it, Sweden has been pushing for five years rather than ten years. That's the way it is. I am not saying that Sweden voted against ten years on 25 October, but that it said no to ten years on 25 October. The Minister also seems to maintain that this was the case. Madam President, I would like Sweden is where it is. This means that we have a different climate from many of the countries that have swung around glyphosate. It is not only Sweden that has changed its position during the journey, but I would not say that it is to the government's advantage that it is, rather the opposite. Together with Finland, we are perhaps the country that is most dependent on adequate plant protection given our cold climate. We have a shorter time that it is possible to process crops. This means that we also have fewer crops to choose from than other countries in southern Europe. This means that Sweden is severely affected if glyphosate disappears, or when glyphosate disappears. I want to be clear in this debate that there may be new and better means in the future. Green chemistry, nanotechnologies and crowd-funded computing resources may produce new alternatives. It is not incredible that this research will also take place in Sweden. Until then, however, a ban on glyphosate use would be a risk factor for Swedish farmers. The proposal that comes from Parliament would therefore eliminate significant parts of Swedish food production. There are a number of supplementary questions in this context that you need to answer if you are serious about not going to be five more years when this period is over. The first is whether there are at all any adequate alternatives to glyphosate in Sweden today. The second concerns the alternative methods that the Minister writes about in his reply. Who are they? Does the government believe that we can achieve the goals that the government is behind with the food strategy for increased food production if we were to phase out the most common plant protection product already in 2022? In Sweden we already have a restrictive use of glyphosate in accordance with the precautionary principle. For example, you must not use the product before the harvest when growing grain. This is almost exactly the way it is in Finland, which has the same climate as us. I also understand that a government that includes the Green Party wants to promote organic production. This is also why an objective has been set for organic production in Sweden. I also want to increase organic production, but not at the expense of conventional farming. We need to provide opportunities for both industries to grow, if we now think there are two different ones. I have read what many Green debaters have written about the fact that they believe that a ban on glyphosate would make us switch to organic production in Sweden. I have doubts as to whether it is in reality, because somewhere it is the customer's demand that governs organic production. If we make conventional cultivation impossible or severely difficult in Sweden, and if demand for conventionally grown food remains, imports will probably increase. I know, and the Minister knows, that Swedish food is responsibly grown food. And it would be extremely sad if politics were to steer towards something else.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-551	Madam President, I would like I find it sad that Jesper Skalberg Karlsson is constantly rewording and, I have to say, deliberately misinterpreting what I am saying. I gave a verbatim account of what the representative at the meeting told me that she said. At the meeting on 28 October, Sweden opened up for acceptance for a shorter approval. This was based on the contacts that had been between the Commission and our representation in Brussels the day before, when we had understood that the Commission, too, had opened up to such a solution. We then quickly arranged a relatively flexible instruction to help the Commission find a sufficiently broad compromise. At this meeting, many other countries had not been able to do so, but came with very closed mandates, which led to two meetings when they were unable to make decisions. If we are to work towards a compromise, we cannot come up with a completely closed mandate. It's pretty basic. I understand, however, that the interpellation is really about something quite different. It strikes an interesting balance: to what extent should decisions be fully based on scientific assessments, and to what extent – if any – should people's concerns or views be taken from citizens on these types of decisions be taken? The most common, and the good order that the government follows, is that scientific assessments should be respected. This is how we look at the issue again this time. As far as glyphosate is concerned, there has been a heated and strong debate. The European Parliament has expressed very strong criticism of the process until the approval of glyphosate, and there has been a citizens' initiative. Much of this discussion has focused on the basis of the scientific assessments made by Efsa and ECHA. When it comes to listening to the citizens in this part– there may be several parts– I pointed out that I think the Commission has found a very wise input into this discussion. One thing that resolved the issue at the last meeting was that the Commission itself raised the need to review the possibility of improving transparency in the basis of scientific assessments in the authorities. In the Swedish context, it is self-evident that authorities openly and transparently present the basis for their assessments. Unfortunately, this is not self-evident among the European authorities. It is therefore very wise that the Commission should now undertake to review the possibilities of increasing transparency. It is a wise way of meeting the concerns of the citizens and the criticism that has been made of both the lack of transparency and factual criticism that has also been directed at some of these assessments. It is wise that we have an open discussion on these issues. I therefore believe that a good balance has been found between the various aspects that have to be taken into account in this type of issue.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-557	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for approaching the heart of the matter in this debate. Efsa and ECHA, the two expert authorities we have close to such issues, have said that the subject is not as dangerous as it may sound and feel in an emotional debate. The FAO, which is the UN body, has said the same thing. I am not sure that the European Parliament is the best player for peer review, but I actually believe that there are competent people in these authorities. I am convinced that more transparency is a good thing; I am in no way against it. However, I think there is reason to ask the Minister a question when she says that I do not understand what she is writing. In the written answer to the interpellation, it says:.It is important that we take seriously the concerns about environmental risks associated with glyphosate. I would like to ask whether it is not the Minister's responsibility to face these concerns and, in fact, to make it clear that it lacks support in the scientific assessments that have been carried out. Both the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Climate Change have a rather high tone around alternative facts, fake news and so on, and that is good. We have parties in the Swedish parliament, for example the Swedish Democrats, which target the small percentage of research that says that the greenhouse effect is bluff. You say it has to be like that, because it feels good in your stomach. The solution cannot then be that we other, serious, parties go on what feels good in the stomach, but we should stand in the middle – rather broad-legged – and say: We want to follow the scientific expertise. We can work for more transparency, but it is not that we will go gut feeling when it comes to things that can knock away the bones of Swedish production – both conventional and organic.
i-93b4e75a6fd08ff5-562	Madam President, I would like I fully share Jesper Skalberg's conviction – we have come to that several times in this House – about the importance of scientific assessments that characterise political decisions. This applies not least to this type of decision, which we had assessed as an exercise of public authority if they had been taken in a Swedish context. It is a matter of applying a regulatory framework. The tricky thing in this case is that the regulations are based on known knowledge. We know a lot about the effects of glyphosate. It is clearly established that glyphosate has effects on the environment, not least adverse effects on aquatic organisms. A special effort has been made by the European Chemicals Agency to collect and check the state of knowledge regarding claims that glyphosate causes cancer. They found that with available knowledge we cannot claim that glyphosate causes cancer. When I say that we should face the concerns, I mean that we should take the discussion that has existed about lack of transparency. We shall take seriously the actual criticism that has been levelled at some of the bases that have been used for this decision. It is an adequate discussion of society, and it is good that it is being conducted. We can also note that knowledge of the effect of glyphosate on the overall ecosystem is not satisfactory today, but is inadequate. There we have also proposed, in working towards a compromise, that further studies be carried out on the effects of glyphosate on the ecosystem – not on individual plants or animals, but on the overall system. That would be a good basis for the next time we take the corresponding decision.
