i-b7e6013a640d250e-9	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate a case that deals with a more effective complaint system in the healthcare sector. This is something that the committee supports, with some minor corrections. However, I intend to talk more about the content than about the corrections. The Alliance government decided in June 2014 that we would appoint a special investigator to review the current handling of complaints against healthcare and staff. This study would make concrete proposals on how to make management easier, more efficient and more efficient. This was because we saw the need to reinforce and take more steps towards better and more effective patient safety. The purpose of the investigation was to provide proposals to create a complaint management system that provides patients and relatives with more than today with answers to questions about what has happened and why, and which makes better use of patients' views. The purpose of this is that we want to be able to continue to develop Swedish healthcare. In a government position, we worked long-term and targeted to strengthen the position of patients. The first comprehensive patient safety legislation came into force on 1 January 2011. It is now a few years ago. The main purpose of this was to promote the safety of care in order to achieve as few damage to care as possible, and in any event, it should be made easier for the patient to report the damage. At about the same time as we commissioned to review the handling of complaints, the proposal for a new patient law was also submitted. That law was aimed at strengthening the position of patients and clarifying it, as well as, above all, promoting the patient's integrity, self-determination and participation. It also sought to extend the obligation to provide information to the patient. It is also an important part of strengthening the patient's position. The Patient Act entered into force on 1 January 2015. It has then been evaluated twice by the Swedish Agency for Health Care Analysis. Unfortunately, in that evaluation we have been able to see that the position of the patient has not been strengthened since the introduction of the patient law. The evaluation shows that there is no overall improvement in the actual position of the patient in any area of the patient law. The issues you have looked at are participation, consent to care, access to care and access to information. A more effective complaint system is important as a causal link – it is about the patient's position in terms of complaints and patient safety not improving. We need to take that on board and think about how we can further strengthen it and what is the reason why, despite a new patient law, it has not become the improvements that were intended. In its legislative proposal, the Government proposes that there should be clarification, primarily that the carers are the ones who should receive and respond to complaints from patients and related persons, and it should primarily be the carers who should explain what has happened and, if necessary, take the necessary measures to prevent the event from happening again. Of course, these are important parts. It is also proposed that a new law should regulate the activities of patient boards and that patients should have their complaints answered by the carers. We believe that it is time that parts of the Complaints Investigation's proposal were made. However, the investigation suggested that it should be explicitly stated in the law that the patient should also be given the opportunity to comment on improvements, and that the patient board, if the patient is a child, should take into account in its communication with the child what is the best interests of the child, which is important in times when we go and wait for the child convention to become law. The views of the consultation bodies have expressed the need to clarify how complaints should be handled, for example when it comes to documentation of how to deal with complaints when they concern several different healthcare providers. We in the Alliance's parties believe that the government is making a mistake when choosing not to implement the Patient Act and the Patient Safety Act. This is closely linked to the proposals to introduce a more effective and effective complaints system into the health care system, because the proposals in the proposal which is the starting point of the report are based on the fact that the patient's position is clear and strong in the healthcare sector and we have been able to see that it is still not sufficiently so. According to the Swedish Agency for Health and Welfare Analysis, this is due to the fact that the patient's legal position is still weak. This can also be seen when comparing with Norway, Finland and Denmark, where the patient has a stronger legal status. In Norway, for example, patients can have certain rights, such as the right to information and participation in decisions and treatment, reviewed in court. The Agency's evaluation also shows that the prerequisites for healthcare to apply the patient law and strengthen the patient's actual position are still flawed. Both at national and local level, this is linked to insufficient implementation of the patient law. With this, Mr President, I am in favour of the Alliance's reservation, which, if I do not remember correctly, is reservation 3.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-22	Mr President, I would like to Ultimately, this is about the safety and safety of Swedish healthcare. This is one of the most important challenges of healthcare in the future. I was going to start with the challenge part, what too many people continue to experience. Over 100,000 people are injured every year. It is about 8 percent of all those who are hospitalized at one time. After a few years of decreasing health damage, we can now see that they are increasing again, unfortunately. It's too many and too often. This is not good enough in Swedish health care. More than 1 000 people die each year because of some form of care injury, because we in health care are not doing more right from the beginning. The person who suffers from a health injury has twice as long a period of care. It is, of course, twice as challenging to return to a healthier life, and it is also double costs and double circumstances in that situation. This is not good enough in Swedish health care. In other words, over 800 000 extra days of care per year are due to health injuries. Almost one patient in ten suffers from care injuries that are avoidable. For society, which we as legislators and those who protect taxpayers' money also have to take into account, it is an annual cost of almost SEK 10 billion. These are enormous resources, which could be used in healthcare in a much better and wiser way. This is not good enough. We have to do something about this. I agree with what Emma Henriksson said earlier. The Alliance government was the first government to decide on comprehensive patient safety legislation in 2011. That work has continued since then. But it is clear that it is time to pick up on that work when we see that progress is not going the way we want it to go. The Alliance government set up an investigation. One of the proposals made by this inquiry has been put forward by the government as a bill on the table of the Riksdag. It's all right, but it's not enough. With the challenges I have just listed, it is clear that we need to do even more and be even clearer and more powerful. We therefore began a discussion in connection with the alliance parties' proposals in the Riksdag to do more to strengthen the patient's position and the patient's rights. We also did so on the basis of a situation where we wanted to strengthen patient safety. Something surprising happened after such a discussion. We agreed on challenges, and we agreed on the content. But we did not agree to go forward together here in Parliament and say that we should take the next step. There is more in this investigation that we can use to further strengthen the patient. At that time the Social Democrats, together with the Green Party and the Left, backed up. That is regrettable. Therefore, I think that Kristina Nilsson, the Social Democrats, is obliged today to describe what is not good enough to take the next step here and now to strengthen the patient's position and strengthen the patient safety work further in view of the challenges I have listed. As Emma Henriksson said, the Swedish Agency for Health Care Analysis, which is the Government's expert authority, has twice examined this legislation and concluded that there is a lot more to be done, not least linked to the patient's position. In addition, the Swedish National Audit Office, which reviews the legislation that we are deciding on here, has also had a clear report. There are still clear pitfalls in patient safety work. Responsible for the government was here in an interpellation debate and promised that in the coming years it would take strong action on the part of the government to use the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations to work more systematically on patient safety. This was in November 2015. Since then, this bill has come, but it is only part. We want the big picture. We want the whole long-term work. We want to further strengthen the patient's position. Above all, patient safety must have a clear impact. There we can help each other as legislators together with the government and, of course, together with the principals. I support the alliance parties' reservation No 3 in order to stress the importance of making it possible to take more steps to do more right things. It is not good enough that the health injuries around Sweden continue to increase and that in terms of the individual's possibilities, in the type of complaints that arise as a result of those health injuries, not all the tools recommended by the Agency for Health Care Analysis are used to the full and that the investigator also recommends. Then the Riksdag and the Government should take further steps to make it more forceful.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-33	Mr President, I would like to I will be relatively brief in view of the germ that has hit my neck. But at least I'm gonna try. Today we are debating the Government's proposal for a more effective system of complaints in the healthcare sector. First of all, I would like to say that we share the view of the government that it is important to have a more effective complaint system. However, we do not believe that some of the government's proposals for amendments are the right way forward in order to achieve these improvements. Instead, the proposal risks leading to the possibility of not all patients having an independent examination of their complaints, which would be very unfortunate. The Swedish Agency for Health Care Analysis released a report a while ago showing a decline in confidence in the Swedish healthcare system. Only one third of Swedes believe that healthcare works well. It is even more important to try to strengthen confidence in the health system, including by giving all patients the right to turn to an independent body to have their complaints investigated and examined. We also fear that the Government's proposal could lead to fewer patients complaining, just as the Disability Associations have presented in their referrals, because patients may not dare complain to their own healthcare provider. Mr President, I would like to We are also critical of the government's proposal to limit the investigation obligation for IVO. They shall only deal with matters relating to, physical or mental injury or illness arising in connection with health care, which are persistent and not minor or have resulted in a material increase in the need for care or death. With this limitation, we believe that many patients' cases will never be examined by IVO. This means that patients are left entirely to the care provider's assessment of their complaints, which means a significant limitation of the patient's power. It should be borne in mind that there are cases of care injuries that are neither permanent nor have led to an increased need for care but which can still be considered serious for the patient and where the caregiver has obviously made mistakes. Referrals such as the JO and the Swedish National Audit Office also consider that limiting the obligation to investigate limits the patient's right to have an independent review of his case. The Swedish Agency for Health Care Analysis is also critical of the Government's proposal. The reason why the government wants to limit IVO's investigation obligation is that it would lead to increased opportunities to conduct systematic and patient-centred supervision. We share that view. It is important that IVO conducts good supervision, but we are sceptical that it is at the expense of all patients' ability to have their cases examined by an independent body. Instead of addressing contradictions between complaint handling and enforcement, we should see these activities as important complements to each other. Mr President, I would like to We believe it is important for the complaints system to operate equally across the country. The Government's proposal for a system that refers to health care providers and patient boards is likely to lead to differences in complaint handling in different parts of the country, and this may lead to differences in practice. In conclusion, Mr President, we are critical of the government's proposal that patients should have to go directly to the healthcare provider who has dealt with them with their complaint rather than to IVO. It should be remembered that the patient is often at a disadvantage, as a treating doctor usually has a knowledge advantage. A caregiver is never an independent body but a party to the case. We believe that there is a big point in all patients who consider themselves mistreated to be heard and to have their case tried by an independent body. I commend our reservation 1.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-43	Mr President, I would like to The proposal we are discussing today may seem somewhat boring – a more effective complaint system in the healthcare sector. But it is a very important piece of legislation, and it is for two reasons. Some are that this is something that we have been into for about 20 years in Swedish healthcare, namely to move more and more power to the patient. This is about the times when the patient lodges a complaint it should be dealt with in a good way. The second part, which is just as important, is about patient safety. When patients report complaints and report things that they think have gone wrong, it is a very important instrument to ensure that it does not happen again. That is why in 2006 the Alliance Government started quite a change in this regard. The supervision was taken from the county administrative boards to the National Board of Health and Welfare. It created the Inspection for Health and Care. HSAN was given a whole new role. We already saw in 2013 that it became a major concern in a situation where all complaints ended up with a government agency, the Inspection for Health and Care. Therefore, as early as summer 2014, the Alliance Government appointed an investigation to look at how complaints can be better dealt with, so that they can lead to more patient power and also increased patient safety. The situation we had then was that IVO, the Inspection for Care, had nothing else to do but try to graze the complaints. Most complaints from patients are not about the fact that something serious has happened, but it is a lot of questions of response, that people have simply been treated badly in health care. That is why it was good that the investigation proposal came, and that is what we are going to discuss today. The proposal means strengthening the patient and improving care, because now it is a patient committee in each county council that takes responsibility for patient safety. And as a government authority, the Health and Welfare Inspection can spend more time on systematic supervision in places where they know there are major concerns. The Alliance is entirely behind this proposal, and it is not surprising because it was we who started the investigation. Mr President, I would like to Once the Social Affairs Committee has had legislation to deal with, it has been about work initiated by the Alliance Government and, as is currently the case, there are legislative proposals that we can decide on. The big problem is that from 2014 onwards we have had a government that has not taken much initiative. As far as health care is concerned, you have to be constantly on and think about what laws need to be changed so that we can get a better functioning health care, but after autumn 2014 nothing has happened. When we got this proposal then, we obviously said that it is a very good proposal that we are in favour of, but we see that more changes need to be made. The first concerns changes in the patient law, for when making these changes you must also make other changes that strengthen the patient's position in the care. We have proposed to look at that. The second is that, as far as patient safety is concerned, there are a number of further deficiencies. We from the Alliance have said: Okay, the bill is great, but that's not enough. It takes so much more. That is why we have proposed to Parliament to decide to tell the government that it is necessary to review both patient law and patient safety law, because they need to be renewed. They're not good enough today. This surprises us, Mr President, when the Social Democrats and the Green Party say that it does not have to be done. Their motive is that they have already set up an investigation, coordinated development for good and close care, and that the investigation will certainly be able to look at both patient law and patient safety. Yeah, but it's just that that investigation is about primary care. It is the primary care coordinator who has the task to develop proposals on how to restructure Swedish primary care. It's a very important investigation, but it has nothing to do with patient safety. The word patient safety is not mentioned in the directive at all, nor does the directive say anything about reviewing the patient law. How the Left can categorically say no to the Alliance's proposal to proceed with this, with reference to an investigation that is about something quite different, I cannot understand, Mr President. It is sad that today we do not have a majority here in Parliament to give this clear mandate to the government, because that would benefit patient safety. It would also strengthen the patient's position. That is why, Mr President, I would like to support Amendment No 3 in the committee's report.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-54	Mr President, I would like to Caring injuries are not uncommon, see various documents. The right to report can of course also affect what happens in the healthcare sector when it comes to, for example, system errors. Many may feel very powerless in the face of a doctor who does not listen, who discriminates and who is not sensitive. Patients who are a little further down the social ladder are those who have the most difficulty in having a dialogue with their carers. The Government's proposal, which is called A more effective complaint system in the healthcare sector, proposes, among other things, that the Inspection for Health Care and Care Investigation should be limited to certain types of cases, and that is very much of a bad rush of death. I will read it out in such a way that it becomes clear that the obligation to investigate shall apply to events where the patient has suffered an injury or illness arising in connection with care and which are permanent and have not little or have resulted in a significantly increased need for care or in the death of the patient. In other words, the entire care injury should go all the way into the tile, if you can put it that way. In this way, we believe that we are in danger of missing many systematic shortcomings and shortcomings in healthcare that are not investigated or audited. Not only does the Left Party think so, but it is also a large number of referrals, such as the JO, Riksrevisionen, patient boards and patient organisations, who believe that these restrictions on the patient's right to have an independent review of their case mean a major deterioration in people's ability to speak. Many will feel run over and left on the road. We definitely agree with that criticism. The aim is to ensure that the care carried out is safe and of good quality and complies with laws and regulations, has a fair treatment and is not discriminatory and so on. Such a review is important both for the individual patient who has been mistreated and for the entire system. That there should be an opportunity to take a case forward to an investigation by an independent authority such as IVO is a security for people who are in a vulnerable position due to mistreatment. The Government proposes in its proposal that there should be no restrictions on which matters the authorities should be able to investigate. On the other hand, we want to limit the obligation to do so. We believe that there is an imminent risk that patients' complaints will not come up for review. There is also a risk that the change proposed in the bill will lead to increased ambiguity and that the structural errors that exist in the healthcare sector will be missed, and we do not think we can afford that. According to the Government, the purpose of the restrictions is to lead to increased opportunities for IVO to conduct systematic and patient-centred supervision based on analysis of where the need for supervision is greatest, taking into account the quality and safety of healthcare. It goes without saying that the resources of an authority must be given priority. However, it is very difficult to see how limiting the possibility of complaining about maltreatment in healthcare and care should lead to increased patient safety for vulnerable groups. I think it might be the other way around. In order to increase the possibilities for the patient to take a case further, a clear information is required to both patients and their relatives about the rights they have and how to proceed with complaints to IVO. But that is not the case in reality. For those who have been exposed or have a relative who has been exposed to some kind of care injury, that information has not been so insanely visible. We also want to see more robust help from both the current health institution and the patient board in question to take the complaints further. It's super important. Already today, IVO can refrain from investigating a complaint if it has no direct impact on patient safety. This makes the government's proposal to restrict a little remarkable. We all know that there are legal practitioners who can make the notification after the notification, but there is of course the possibility to remove them. The government also writes in its proposal that it would be more reasonable for less serious events in the care to be handled by the care providers. We believe that an investigation in which the subject matter of the review is also the subject of a report provides a fairly legally insecure system. Children and young people are a particularly vulnerable group of patients and, as you know, focusing on health care can be quite difficult. Many children, of course, become dependent on an adult for that person to speak for them. For such a group, it is particularly important that the system for lodging complaints is clear and that there are good opportunities for follow-up. The Ombudsman for Children has been very clear in his referrals when it comes to IVO investigating all issues relating to comments and complaints from children and young people. They shouldn't disappear into a black basket. We agree with the Children's Ombudsman's criticism and believe that IVO should not only have the opportunity but also the obligation to investigate all matters concerning children and young people. We also agree with the description of the Committee on the Rights of the Child that in order for the rights of the Convention on the Rights of the Child to be meaningful, it is necessary for the child to have access to effective and child-friendly remedies for redress in the event of infringement of rights. I would like to express my support for reservation No 2. Otherwise, we support the bill.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-69	Mr President, I would like to This will be a bit of a continuation of yesterday's discussion about a strengthened patient law, when we also came into the patient safety law. On Monday some of us visited Ryhov in Jönköping, at the dialysis department. There were patients who did their own dialysis. There was no risk with it, because all the wires, hoses and everything were so well marked that there could be no faults. This is the result of the very regrettable event that occurred a number of years ago when a nurse would handle a new dialysis machine and patients died because she was tying errors. It was not her fault that it got miswired, but it was the technology it was due to. But the legislation we had then was to find one who was guilty, so she had to dress shots for what others were actually responsible for. This has then led to continued follow-up of other cases where there have been systemic errors of various kinds and the doctor or nurse who has been closest to the patient but who has not actually been able to control the errors has been hunted. It has been that the wrong medicine packaging has been used because different strengths have looked the same and so on. This eventually led to the Patient Safety Act, and the purpose was for us to focus on system errors, technical errors, to prevent repetitions and not to chase those closest to the patient. Sure, we realized that there will be cases where staff have caused the errors, but this was the purpose of the Patient Safety Act. We saw in front of us that IVO, the Inspection for Health and Care, would concentrate on this preventive work. But they have been overwhelmed by patient cases, and when you go through them you can clearly see that this has not been handled in a good and empathetic way at the local level where the injury has occurred. That is what we now want to remedy with the legislative proposal that is before us. In reservation 3, which I support, we want to further strengthen patients' rights in connection with these analyses. Then I think it is important that there is a good dialogue between caregivers and patients about the benefits and risks of a treatment even before a patient enters a treatment so that there is a reflection period, if possible, when it comes to whether to say yes or no. You should also be informed that there is a patient injury insurance here that cannot always cover any costs. We also have a medicine damage insurance policy. We in Sweden should be proud that we have these insurance policies and do not have to go into lengthy legal proceedings. But then when damage has occurred, which we have preferred to avoid, there will be an immediate dialogue with the patient to explain what has happened and listen to the patient to find out how he has understood the situation. This is, to a certain extent, in the legislation on which we have to decide, but not enough. What is also important in this context is to take care of the health care provider who has, so to speak, contributed to damage. Those who work in health care want to do good for their patients, and you feel very bad about causing damage. So we need to look at both of these partners. Then it is clear that the legislation that we have and that we now want to improve has not reached enough in health care and in the public. We need to strengthen that information and knowledge, but we also need to consider whether it contributes to the fact that we now have so many laws in the area of health. I was on it yesterday. We have the Health Care Act, the Patient Act, the Patient Safety Act, the Medicines Act and so on. Maybe some of this should be brought together. But it is much better today than before. We have the Agency's Health Analysis, which is constantly monitoring how these laws work. There are other authorities that are also following up, but I really believe that health analysis has shown the momentum here and signalled us early on in politics: you need to correct this and improve legislation.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-79	Mr President, I would like to When I started going through this matter and caved into it, I came to think of the first time I worked at a health center. That was about 30 years ago. During the first week I learned a whole new concept. There are many people here who have been active in healthcare who recognise that concept, and it is SVBK. It meant something like sting, pain and burn. It was about women with a diffuse symptom that at the time was not really diagnosed and was therefore largely dismissed as difficult and impossible. Now, many years later, we know that these women may have suffered from fibromyalgia, lipedema, hormonal disorders such as menopause or something else that one at the time did not really know how to treat or handle. I think that we could then see the patient more as a problem that we would solve rather than a resource to cooperate with. But thankfully, care is constantly evolving, and we are all very happy about that. I often meet patients who are very grateful for the care and treatment they have received. When you think about how much is actually happening in healthcare 24 hours a day, week after week and year after year, I can sometimes be surprised that it actually gets so very right. I was amused to look at statistics from SKL regarding visits to primary care and visits to receptions. It showed that in 2015 27 million visits were made to or by doctors. 35 million visits were made to other staff categories such as nurses, midwives, curators or physiotherapists. So there were over 60 million meetings between health professionals and patients in this area alone. This is an enormous amount of information to be given, received and, above all, understood from both sides. Moreover, health care is becoming increasingly complex and complicated by the fact that today we can do more than ever and have more choices to make, as in many cases there are several treatment options. We agree that health care constantly needs to work with quality improvements, risk minimisation and prevention of health injuries. An extremely important part of this work is to systematically take in the views and complaints of patients and draw conclusions and work towards improvements based on them. After all, there is no one but the patient himself who can answer how you have experienced the whole course of care from beginning to end in everything from treatment to information and finally the treatment itself and its results. The need for this work to be strengthened and developed has already been mentioned by the previous speaker. The previous government took a series of measures. The Patient Safety Act 2011 has been mentioned. An agreement was reached with SKL on improved patient safety. The Agency IVO was established in 2013, and the Patient Act came in 2015. Unfortunately, despite the good intentions, it has not worked optimally in practice. I therefore welcome the fact that the Government is now presenting a proposal aimed at clarifying how this should work. It is gratifying that we in committee agree that this is a good thing. My conviction, Mr President, is that if you as a patient are dissatisfied or have views on care and treatment, the most important thing is that you get an explanation of what happened as soon as possible and find out why it went wrong. Ideally, you want to know that what happened to you will not happen to any more patients. Many times it is a matter of response. Sometimes you just want an excuse. For me, it goes without saying that the person best placed to respond to and respond to this type of complaint is the person who carried out the care, i.e. the health care provider. As the government states in the bill, the focus must be on quickly solving any misunderstandings and ambiguities and answering the patient's questions. It is also important for healthcare professionals that it is clear how complaints and comments should be dealt with and answered. It is now clear that it is the patient boards that form the first instance to help and support the patient so that adequate and understandable responses are obtained from the care provider. The Boards shall also cooperate with IVO and draw the Authority's attention to circumstances relevant to its supervision. I welcome the fact that IVO has a limited duty of investigation. This will lead to increased opportunities for more systematic supervision that can be based on analysis of where the need is greatest, unlike today, as the work is largely guided by the complaints that come to the authority. I am convinced that it increases the opportunities for groups who may not always make their voice heard but whose need for supervision can nevertheless be very great. It is also good and important that the government states that national information is needed on how to submit comments and complain about health care and that the system should continue to be monitored and evaluated. With that, Mr President, I would like to endorse the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-92	Mr President, I would like to Kristina Nilsson used her entire speech to tell us that this is a good proposal. I agree with that. That's a good suggestion. That was the last proposal that the Alliance took the initiative for, in summer 2014, because this is an area where we must constantly think about what we can do better and what changes we can make. The concern after 2014 has been that we are sitting with a government that in this area does not take the initiative at all for any legislative work. That is what makes us in the Alliance think that when we now put forward this good proposal, we in Parliament must say that here it is clear that nothing has happened for three years. No initiatives have come from the government to reform patient safety legislation or patient legislation, despite the appeal of both the Swedish National Audit Office and not least the Swedish Agency for Health Care Analysis. My question to Kristina Nilsson is that you say in the report: No, we do not need to decide on this – that is, that the government should review patient law and patient safety law – because we have set up an investigation called Coordinated development for good and close care. But that directive is about something quite different. The Patient Act does not exist at all. That investigation is not about patient safety. It's about primary care. I therefore wonder how that investigator will be able to answer questions and make proposals in this area when you have not included it in the directives. Why are the Green Party and the Social Democrats in the government so fully involved in taking initiatives and setting up investigations in this extremely important area?
i-b7e6013a640d250e-96	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that I think it is a good thing that there is a great deal of political agreement on the issues of developing patient safety and patient safety. The fact that we agree on the legislative proposal that is being presented today is, of course, excellent. I am thinking a little about what Mr Westerholm mentioned in his speech. I do not believe that it is so simple that one can only amend one legislation to make this work optimally. I believe that this is a major study that would have to be carried out to review these elements, how they can be linked together and whether there is legislation that needs to be brought together. As I said, however, there is nothing I can tell you exactly how it could be done today. The most important thing I think is that the government is taking an initiative to ensure that this really starts to work in practice, because it obviously has not. It hasn't happened, what we all wanted to happen out there in medical care. It has not been the case that patients' views and complaints are better taken into account. It has not been the case that the activities of health care are being developed in a systematic way. Then I think it is good that we are putting forward a proposal that will enable us to get started in practice and that it will be clear how it will work. It must then continue to be monitored and evaluated.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-99	Mr President, I would like to That's not the answer to the question. The product that we are deciding on today is the result of a work that the Alliance Government started in the summer of 2014 after an extremely intensive reform effort over eight years. This is somehow the final result of the Alliance Government's work on patient law and patient safety law. From autumn 2014, there has not been a single investigation by the government that has anything to do with patient safety or patient law, i.e. to transfer power from civil servants and bureaucrats to the patient – nothing, not a single investigation, although both the National Audit Office and the Agency for Health Care Analysis have said that one continuously sees a number of things that work badly. When you get that kind of signal, you have to say, as a government, yes, we see that there are concerns in the legislation here. Here we need to set up an investigation that reviews patient safety law and patient law. We have received signals in both these areas. This is how reform work works. You can't sit back and wait for something to happen. That is why my question to Kristina Nilsson is: Why can't you think like us in the Alliance – that an investigation should be set up quickly to review both patient law and patient safety law? Are there going to be further years without anything happening in this area? Finally, the most remarkable thing is that you say that the reason you are not going to set up an investigation is that the government has just set up an investigation that is doing something quite different, namely primary care. This is also important in itself, but there is not a word in those directives on patient safety law or patient law. It is to me and certainly many more completely incomprehensible why the Social Democrats and the Green Party are so completely uninterested in patient law and patient safety law that they are not prepared to put the shovel in the ground and start the investigation work so that in a few years' time they can deliver proposals that strengthen this area.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-105	Mr President, I would like to I can understand that it is frustrating for Anders W Jonsson that we do not always think as Anders W Jonsson does. But maybe it's a little in the nature of the matter. The government has identified a problem, namely that there are concerns about the application of existing legislation. Anders W Jonsson can't think that we should set up an investigation into what's already been investigated, can he? Now the government has chosen to go this way. There are concerns about the application of existing legislation. Then you try to make it work in practice, that it really will happen out there at the health centre and that it will happen out there in the hospital. This is gonna get started better. Better use should be made of patients' views and complaints and use them in practice, in order to improve day-to-day work. I do not rule out the possibility that there may eventually be a need for a new investigation. But as things stand today, I think that the government has made a good choice when it has chosen to ensure that the legislation we have will work in practice.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-109	Mr President, audiences, viewers and listeners! The red-green feminist government, as you all know, is working long-term and determinedly to develop and strengthen welfare policy. Any one of us in this House or of you sitting in the gallery listening or any of you who chooses to follow the debate in this House in other ways may at any time be affected by ill health. No one can know with certainty in advance when a person will have his or her own need for health care. That is why we are all concerned that we should have well-functioning health care and a welfare system that guarantees a dignified life. A week ago, the committee debated prevention, how to avoid ill-health as far as possible. Yesterday, we debated the health services themselves and that activity. The focus then became primarily structures and instruments. This report deals with the patient's ability to complain about the care provided in this system. The proposal has already been described by several debaters. I do not think I have much to add. I shall therefore keep it very brief. With this proposal, the government wants to create a more effective complaint system. In order to achieve this, it clarifies the responsibility of carers to receive complaints. It'll be clearer. It also strengthens the role of the Patient Board through new legislation, so that the Board can be more independent from the carers. It increases the responsibility of the Patient Board to help patients in the process, which is perhaps the most important part. The Patient Board, which will become more independent, will also support healthcare providers more clearly in terms of quality and patient safety development. There have been complaints about this. We've heard it's not enough. But we on the government side think that this is a major step in the right direction. Hopefully, we will see that what was the intentions of the legislation from the outset can be implemented to a greater extent. On the basis of what has been said, I would like to comment that in every debate and now again we have been told that this government is doing nothing. I was having a good time looking. The alliance parties ruled for eight years. Over the eight years, according to the bill list, an average of 128 proposals were made per year, 16 of which concerned the activities of the Social Affairs Committee. In the two-and-a-half, almost three, years that this government has been operating, an average of 30% more proposals have been made – 165 in total, of which 21 in the area of the Social Affairs Committee. It is therefore contrary to what the alliance side has been constantly going on about. In reality, this government is making 30% more proposals, according to the bill list. There may be differences of opinion about such things as the quality of the proposals. However, on the basis of what can be measured, the number of proposals, this government has been substantially more active, 30%, when it comes to making proposals. I want to say it, because the image that I don't recognize has become nagging. We should also remember that when this government took office, it did not get its budget through in the first place. One had to rule with a budget presented by the Alliance, and that budget was almost empty – to use the expression that you in the Alliance usually use – in terms of investigative resources. That is a strong reason why the investigations have started much later in this parliamentary term than during your period, when you had your own majority and were able to use as much resources as possible for investigative work. I support the proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-120	Mr President, I would like to For those of us who believe in democracy and European values, 2016 was a continued dark year. What happened? Well, three things happened. Firstly, several terrorist acts plagued Europe and the Member States of the Council of Europe, including Brussels, Istanbul, Nice, Normandy, Mü nchen and Berlin. The second was that Russia continued its occupation of Crimea. The third was that the failed coup attempt in Turkey led to mass arrests and restrictions on both human rights and democracy. In 2016, the many horrifying acts of terrorism that took place in Europe and the rest of the world dominated the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. No wonder! The Council of Europe was founded in 1949, and one of the first things it did was to create the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Since then, it has guided Europe, even the whole world. If we do not want the terror to destroy all the rights and freedoms we have so laboriously built up in our part of the world, we must stand united across party boundaries and put party politics aside. Terrorism is one of the greatest threats to democracy, security and European values. We must therefore work preventively against radicalisation, but also take a strong stance against those who have become radicalised, in order to prevent future terrorist acts. In the debates of the Council of Europe, the realization that these brutal acts are clearly linked to fanatical and fundamentalist religious extremism has become a reality. This process has gone considerably further than in Sweden, which hopefully wakes up after the terrible terrorist attack in Stockholm. In the Council of Europe, the question has been raised as to whether Sharia laws are compatible with the ECHR. There is work going on with a report called Compatibility of Sharia law with the European Convention on Human Rights : can States Parties to the Convention be signatories of the I was asked to write in the report an opinion on this on behalf of the Committee on Culture of the Council of Europe. As far as Russia's annexation of the Crimea is concerned, they have been strongly condemned by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. As a result, the Russian delegation lost its right to vote and then decided not to appear. Of course, this situation has caused the pan-European dialogue to suffer when Europe's largest country is absent. But the principle of the territorial integrity of countries is something we must all uphold, cost whatever it wants. The aggressive imperialism that we see from Russia is unacceptable. Has Europe not had enough aggressive states with ambitions? Madam President, I would like We all remember the attempted coup d'état in Turkey in 2016. A coup d'état is always democratically reprehensible whether it succeeds or not. President Recep Tayyip Erdo has used the coup d'état as an excuse for mass arrests and redundancies of civil servants, such as the military, police, judges and teachers. But a large number of companies were also forced to shut down. According to Amnesty, more than 2,500 journalists have lost their jobs, nearly 800 have lost their state press card and 169 media have been shut down. Some 500 000 Kurds have left their homes after brutal raids by the Turkish authorities. Turkey's recurrent repression of minorities should long ago have opened the eyes of Europe's leading politicians to what is going on. In connection with the recent presidential election, several Kurdish politicians from the new left party HDP were subjected to assault while their premises were set on fire. Turkey has joined forces in Iraq to attack the Kurds, which the democratically elected Iraqi Government has opposed. In Syria, NATO allies have been attacked by the SDF. Turkey's action is clearly contrary to human rights, and developments are worrying both for the Turkish people and for Europe's security. It is quite horrifying to see the flatness of the West against what is happening in Turkey. During the January session of the Council of Europe, an up-to-date debate on the situation in Turkey was voted down by both the Agency and the House. During the autumn session, we saw how Members from different countries defended President Erdo's repression of political opponents before and after the coup attempt. Madam President, I would like During a visit by the Turkish Foreign Minister to the Council of Europe, he painted parts of the Syrian Democratic Forces group, the SDF, as terrorists, despite being the main democratic force against IS and Islamic extremist groups and being supported by the majority of European governments. He also defended, as I have said before, the regime's mass arrests and mass redundancies of civil servants, such as the military, police, judges and teachers, but also the systematic imprisonment, loss of jobs or other repression, including elements of violence, of a wide range of political opponents. As if that were not enough, President Erdo has now announced his government's plans to reintroduce the death penalty. The fact that so many people just days after the coup attempt came to be regarded as terrorists is not only suspicious but also an indication of what kind of regime we are dealing with in Turkey.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-139	Madam President, I would like The Council of Europe has a unique role in that it is the only intergovernmental body that brings together virtually all European countries to protect human rights, the rule of law and democratic governance. Unfortunately, however, we are seeing an increase in tension and tension in Europe and more countries violating fundamental human rights in a number of areas. It is, of course, a setback for the Council of Europe when countries such as Russia, Hungary, Ukraine, Azerbaijan, Turkey and others continue to disregard the commitments of membership. I intend to concentrate my speech on some of the key issues that have been debated in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe during the period we are now debating, i.e. in 2016. Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and developments in Eastern Ukraine have continued to be a central issue. Of course, it is not acceptable for one Member State to annex a part of another Member State. The Left Party, together with the other Swedish delegation, has therefore supported the Council of Europe's decision to temporarily deprive Russia of their right to vote in the Council of Europe. The way forward is a peaceful solution with a Russian withdrawal from Ukraine's territory and a halt to military supplies to the separatists, as the Council of Europe also called for in the resolution adopted. The report also called for Ukraine, which stressed that only a democratic Ukraine with stable, effective and responsible institutions will be capable of restoring peace and prosperity. We should be aware that Ukraine is also facing several major challenges, not least in terms of tackling the widespread corruption and respect for minority rights. The issue of refugees was undoubtedly the issue most discussed during the period. It is clear that refugees had to pay a high price for the EU's decision to drastically reduce the number of refugees admitted to Europe in 2016. The rich Europe of 730 million people should have no difficulty in receiving 1 million people fleeing war, terror and oppression. Instead, the EU concluded an agreement with Turkey, in which it was given the task of acting as a border police force – a country with barely functioning asylum systems and major internal problems. A large number of refugees were also trapped in the Greek islands, where the situation was anything but satisfactory. In addition, the Balkan route was closed north of Greece. The lack of solidarity with refugees also became apparent when the EU's relocation plan for refugees failed, much because of Hungary's refusal to accept the plan. Several of these issues were debated in the Council of Europe and resolutions called on the Assembly's Member States and the international community to do more, including by creating legal pathways, prioritising the most vulnerable and facilitating family reunification. That's good. It was also noted that Greece had to bear an unreasonable burden on the refugee situation and that Greece and, above all, the European Union had to do more to fulfil their commitments to ensure respect for the fundamental rights of refugees and immigrants. I am pleased to have contributed to better decisions by means of a supplementary request calling on the EU to reconsider the refugee agreement with Turkey. During the period, Turkey became increasingly the focus of the interest of the Council of Europe, especially after the failed coup attempt in July 2016. In the debate, many people quite rightly distanced themselves from the military coup but, at the same time, stated that there was no justification for the abuses that subsequently took place with mass arrests of journalists and oppositionists, including MEPs from the Left Democratic Party of the HDP, and mass kidnappings of thousands of officials, academics and judges. The Kurdish population, which has long been affected, was particularly hard hit. The UN Commission on Human Rights condemned the action taken against the Kurdish population as a serious violation of human rights. I am therefore pleased that Turkey will now be placed under the full supervision of the Council of Europe. It is a necessary and important decision which gives new hope to the democratic forces in Turkey. This decision was not taken during the period we are actually discussing. However, I would like to mention this in this connection. I am convinced that we will return to the issue of Turkey several times, not least in view of the fact that there is a threat of reintroducing the death penalty, which would be a fundamental breach of the European Convention. Another issue I would like to mention briefly is that the Council of Europe rejected a resolution on the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, which was overly unbalanced and described Armenia in an excessively negative way. However, I would like to stress that this frozen conflict, which has caused and causes a great deal of suffering, must be resolved and that both sides have a shared responsibility with respect for the work of the Minsk Group. I also note that we are still living in a Europe where men earn more than women and have far more power and influence than women in virtually all areas. I am therefore pleased that the Council of Europe discussed several resolutions relating to gender equality. I myself was active in several of these debates, including on the importance of increasing equality in the field of sport, where I managed to improve the wording by getting proposals on the importance of getting more women leaders into sports movements at all levels as well as more female trainers. I also participated in a debate on women in military service, in which I stressed the importance of better adapting activities to women's needs. Another important resolution on women's rights was on the ban on female genital mutilation, in which Member States were urged to do more to stop these terrible abuses completely. I would like to endorse our Amendment No 2 on the importance of strengthening work on LGBT issues at European level. The Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights and the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance have, on several occasions in recent years, drawn attention to violations of the human rights of LGBT people among the Member States of the Council of Europe. We therefore believe that the government of the Council of Europe should work actively to ensure that all Member States eliminate any discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression. I am fully aware that Sweden is already prioritising the issue and doing a good job of highlighting LGBT issues in different contexts. I can also see that the issue has had some positive developments in the Council of Europe, which is gratifying. I also know that the Swedish delegation, particularly through Jonas Gunnarsson, has highlighted the LGBT issue in an exemplary way. However, we believe that we need to step up our work further, and it is important not least to ensure that the special unit dealing with LGBTQ issues – Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Unit – is strengthened financially and organisationally to ensure that it can work long-term and strengthen LGBTQ issues in Europe in the long term. Finally, I can see that it is a pleasure to be part of a delegation belonging to the Council of Europe's most active and committed. The Swedish delegation has a high presence and participates very actively in the various debates. I would like to thank the delegation leadership and the whole delegation for good cooperation, and I would like to thank our competent officials. Without you, we would never be able to carry out our mission.
i-XZxa75j1ksKFXmQCw2NHGq	Madam President, I would like Today we have to debate the Foreign Affairs Committee's report No 13 on the Council of Europe. The report deals with the Government's letter on the activities of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers during the full year 2015 and the first half of 2016, the report from the Parliamentary Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and a number of motions. I would, of course, like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. When you read the report from the delegation, you can see that we have a very active delegation that takes very seriously the mission it has received from the Riksdag. We can also understand that the mission is carried out with life and desire. As chairman of the delegation, I would like to begin by thanking Members for their good cooperation and good work. We are all painfully aware of the acute problems facing large parts of Europe in many cases. These include Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea, the conflict in eastern Ukraine, frozen conflicts around Transnistria and South Ossetia, and challenging the rule of law and fundamental values of governments in countries such as Hungary, Turkey and Russia. The refugee crisis and the conflicts in Europe's neighbourhood also deserve to be mentioned in these contexts. The Council of Europe was formed some time after the Second World War, to promote democracy, the rule of law and human rights among the Member States. Then, in 1949, a handful of democracies in Western Europe in particular took this rather radical step to implement the UN Declaration of Human Rights in Europe. Since then, many major steps have been taken, both legally and politically, and in terms of geography, we have increased the number of members radically – almost all of Europe's states are currently members. The exceptions are Kosovo, around which there is a political conflict, Belarus, because the country cannot behave against its own population, and the Holy See/Vatican State is one that, for known reasons, is not present. Through the amazing development we have seen since the start of the organisation, we have created a basically pan-European jurisdiction to protect the rights of the individual. We have been able to create this through the European Convention and the European Court of Human Rights, a world-unique court of which we should be incredibly proud. Unfortunately, we find it painfully clear that in many respects trust in the Council of Europe is challenged by suspicions of corruption in the Parliamentary Assembly, by political insensitivity and incomprehension to the values of the organisation and by inappropriate cooperation and visits to, among other things, the Syrian dictator Asad by a number of prominent members of the Assembly. Even our President, Mr Agramunt, took part. In view of all this, I would like to thank the delegation once again. We are in principle unanimous when we stand up for the core values of the organisation. We stand firm for democracy, for the rule of law and for human rights to shape the work of the organisation. We do not condescend to corruption and to stain the fine reputation of the organization, but we stand up for what is important. As far as progress is concerned, a few things have already been mentioned. We have talked about Turkey. The Assembly has now resumed its scrutiny of the country, and that is incredibly important. We have all been able to see what has happened in Turkey in recent years, with an increasingly powerful President and a government that is too negligent towards the rights of the individual. Here the Council of Europe has a fundamental task, namely to stand up for the values we have spoken about so many times. I cannot help but mention the areas I am working on, above all, within the framework of my committee work in the Assembly. It concerns, among other things, the LGBT area. I have the honour of being the General Rapporteur for the rights of LGBT people for a while. Here we have made great progress in Europe. Lotta Johnsson Fornarve from the Left Party mentioned the SOGI unit, the LGBT unit in the organization. It has, through Swedish action, become a regular part of the business. From being an ad hoc part, which has been funded from year to year, it has now become a regular part of the business. There's an incredibly big profit in this area. This gives the questions a clear part in the organization and brings attention to the way they deserve. The Assembly has also taken steps forward by appointing a number of rapporteurs who have to work on some specific issues. These are, above all, areas of family law, where there is case law from the Court of Justice to take advantage of politically and see how it can be interpreted in favour of all the same-sex couples who are currently without legal protection in many Member States. We also have the situation of intersex people, who are terrible in many Member States. You are subjected to physical interventions that are unsolicited, your rights are violated and you often have a legally strange situation to live in. I can also note that the resolution on the rights of transgender persons that we adopted in 2015 remains one of the main international legal tools when it comes to protecting the rights of transgender persons. It is a resolution we in Europe should be incredibly proud of, and the Swedish delegation was active in supporting and developing it. We'll hold onto it and use it. I note that the Swedish Democrats have two reservations in the report, and I find them a little strange. I would first like to say a few words about the position of the Swedish Democrats on Kosovo. It is a deeply unfortunate position that one does not want a state in Europe to be able to accede to the Convention. As a result, some 2 million inhabitants of the country are denied the protection afforded to them by the Convention as individuals. If we are serious about the attitude expressed, namely that recognition itself should not be allowed to continue, I must ask the Swedish Democrats: Which other countries are we going to suspend recognition for? Is this only for Kosovo, or is it for other countries as well? Or should we still stick to the order that we have, that when a country is recognised it is recognised? Then we come to the question of the Court of Justice. The Swedish Democrats are suddenly saying that they want to take back Sweden's accession to the Additional Protocol which has enabled the Court's activities to be streamlined and adapted to the reality in which we live today, where people have access to e-mail and other digital tools. This is also an additional protocol which the Swedish Democrats have, until just now, supported through the handling we have had here in Parliament. They agreed to take office in 2014/ 15:KU9, if I remember correctly. I am very surprised that the Swedish Democrats have this rubber band approach to the Council of Europe and to those principles that should be self-evident in this area. With that, Madam President, I would like to thank the delegation once again and support the proposal contained in the report.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-176	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our reservation 1, which I forgot to do earlier. I was not going to reply to what you said in the speaker's chair, Jonas Gunnarsson, because I have other questions for you. We all know how Turkey has acted last year and this year, with mass arrests and human rights violations. Something that has surprised me greatly in the Council of Europe is that most groups seem to be very concerned about defending Turkey's behaviour rather than condemning and tackling the problem. My question is: what line do the Social Democrats take, and how have you pushed for your group to take harder action against Turkey?
i-b7e6013a640d250e-180	Madam President, I would like Now perhaps we should not discuss the inner life of the groups here, but I can still say that I think it is good that we have got the Assembly to resume a full scrutiny of Turkey. That is something that has been requested for a long time. The fact that this situation has finally occurred – that we have been able to get there – is very good. The abuses that are taking place in Turkey are terrible – I agree with Johan Nissinen. The situation experienced by journalists, minorities and others in Turkey following the coup d'état, but also in the past, is unacceptable. This is something that I think we should all stand for and dare to say when we are in contact with Turkish representatives.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-182	Madam President, I would like It is good to hear that the Social Democrats agree, but as the Council of Europe has acted, I still think we have been far too kind. We acted very strongly against Russia, which I think is a good thing, and I think we should have the same strong action against Turkey. Although Turkey has often held hands on Europe, I believe that it should be clear with its values and positions. We owe this to the Turkish people, for the Turkish people will also be subject to human rights with the European Convention. Would the Social Democrats be prepared, in future, to remove Turkey's right to vote in the Council of Europe in order to make it clear that what it is doing is wrong?
i-b7e6013a640d250e-185	Madam President, I would like In essence, I think that we should use the review tools, reporting possibilities and resolution possibilities that the Assembly has to criticise and push the Member States forward. At some point in the future – if Turkey is now moving in the wrong direction – we will have to think about what steps to take. But Turkey is not Russia. Turkey has not annexed the territory of another Member State. Turkey has not been able to start frozen conflicts in most of its neighbours. There is a difference in degrees between Russia and Turkey. I find it sad that Johan Nissinen chose not to answer the questions I had, which concern the Court of Justice and which concern something as fundamental as allowing 2 million people to have access to the protection provided by the Convention. I think it is a pity that he does not answer if we should withdraw the recognition of other states. But I guess that's what we'll have to come back to later.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-188	Madam President, I would like This is an opportunity to consider the activities of both the Swedish delegation and the Parliamentary Assembly in the past year 2016, which this report covers. As has been said earlier, the Swedish delegation, which the Parliament appoints from among its members and which participates in the activities, has been both politically active and has had a very high attendance at the sessions in Strasbourg, supported by its wise officials in the secretariat. This is, of course, pleasing and shows that, as a co-founder of the Council of Europe, we remain strong in our view that this is and remains an institution whose importance for the protection of human rights is significant and sometimes crucial. However, it would have been rather strange if, even this year, we were not involved in the debate today – partly because many of the issues that quickly stepped on the agenda in 2016 are still in focus, and partly because the seriousness of many of the issues has been further strengthened since the last debate in this House. There are, therefore, four things in particular that I think are particularly important in this debate, namely the allegations of corruption against individual Members of the Parliamentary Assembly, the violations of the human rights of LGBT people in Chechnya, the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine and the serious and authoritarian developments in Turkey. The first issue was revitalised by the reports presented last December, which regrettably point towards widespread and in-depth corruption among members of the Assembly. What is true in this matter must be subjected to a careful and independent test, not least in the light of the unacceptable journey made by the President of the Assembly to Damascus together with other individual Members. Furthermore, this is ultimately about the credibility of the Council of Europe as an institution. It is gratifying that such a credible process is about to begin. Of course, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is difficult to criticise on corruption issues if we ourselves are the subject of such suspicions. But even the quality of almost all kinds of reports and other positions emanating from the congregation runs the risk of being questioned if there are suspicions that bribery can escape or make criticism more difficult. The Council of Europe – and it deserves to be emphasised – is one of the few bodies that can claim with great credibility to carry out an impartial and continuous review of the commitments of their Member States in the areas covered by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. However, the Council of Europe also fears this. It is feared by those who do not want to see more transparency and who know that reports of human rights violations or judgments handed down by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg create a political pressure that is difficult and which should be difficult for those who are exposed to it. In this context, I would also like to take this opportunity to express my thanks to the President-presidencies of the Nordic-Baltic States, who have addressed joint letters with strong calls for thorough and independent scrutiny of the corruption charges against Members of the Parliamentary Assembly, and to point out the great value that the Moderates attach to the NB8 format. The Nordic and Baltic States have a lot in common, and in this particular context there are particularly good reasons for working together and taking joint initiatives. The second issue concerns the terrible abuses of LGBT people reported these days from the Russian Republic of Chechnya. These people are imprisoned under concentration camplike conditions. They are arbitrarily beaten and tortured in these camps with the active involvement of the authorities. I myself listened to a seminar during the last session week that we had in Strasbourg in April and heard terrible testimony from journalists and NGOs who participated. Several initiatives have been taken within the Council of Europe and its Parliamentary Assembly to pay attention to these terrible crimes, to bring those responsible to justice and to prevent people from being persecuted because of their love. The third urgent issue for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is undoubtedly the ongoing aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, where the illegal annexation of Crimea and the low-intensity but ongoing war in eastern Ukraine are open wounds. Sweden's view that the requirements of the Minsk Agreement must be met, the fighting ceases and Ukraine stabilizes as a state forms the basis for how we act in the Assembly within the delegation, and this should also be the case in the future. Finally, developments in Turkey must also be addressed. Since the attempted coup d'état last July, the Turkish Government's iron grip on the state apparatus has been strengthened and extensive purges have been carried out. In these tens of thousands of people have lost their jobs, and many have been imprisoned on very loose grounds. The Kurdish minority is increasingly being oppressed by the Turkish state's army and police. The democratic retreat is bitter and worrying for all of us who believe in a better Turkey, but the way back to a positive development is not through concessions to the regime but through strict observance of the requirements of the European Convention. The resolution adopted at the April session to re- submit Turkey to a so-called monitoring or review process thus confirms the fundamental views that we support: the Turkish Government must immediately stop adopting emergency regulations which avoid decision-making and scrutiny processes in its Parliament. Arrests and arrests of parliamentarians and journalists must be lifted pending trial. In addition, this report calls for the establishment of a commission of inquiry to examine the measures taken by the Turkish government, to guarantee fair trials and to restore freedom of expression and media in the country.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-209	Madam President, I would like It has emerged from the debate that the delegation to the Council of Europe is united on many issues, and I can therefore also agree with many of the previous speakers. The Council of Europe was formed on the ruins of World War II, with the experience of what can happen when extremism is allowed to ravage and when there is no proper order to resolve conflicts or disagreements. It created the opportunity to talk and to secure human rights, democratic foundations and the rule of law that works with credibility for the citizens. This was done, of course, so that we would not repeat the mistakes. Madam President, I would like However, when we look out over Europe today, or 2016 that we are talking about, we see that we need to remind ourselves of how badly it can go when extremism, whether on the right or on the left, radical nationalism or jihadists and terrorists, is given free space. This affects Europe a lot today, and I hope that the Council of Europe will manage to stand up for itself, because there is a lot of wind out there. I shall look at a few points, Madam President. Belarus has been mentioned as an outside nation. Here we still have a state with the death penalty, topical and executive. It is a state in which we may well say that we are trying to apply an illiberal or anti-liberal democracy. The legal system is dependent, the media and civil society as well. This can happen, and this has been the case in parts of Europe before. It's also worth remembering. As long as this development does not reverse, Belarus will not join. Russia has been affected. Parliaments who voted against the illegal annexation of Crimea in the Duma lost their right to vote and chose to leave completely. Russia has continued its annexation and is not living up to the commitments it has made. It is a continuing warring in eastern Ukraine and, not to forget, the continued occupation of Georgian territory. Russia is also one of the nations that are still members who have clearly interpreted values other than the Western values that we stand for. This may be the case for LGBT issues, which have already been touched on, and what is happening in Chechnya. This is just another example of how Kadyrov is allowed to put his feet completely away. This is an area that is a black hole in terms of human rights in Europe today. This can happen in more states if one does not look up, and it is therefore important that we are clear about Russia as well as about our fundamental values. We've seen how others follow. There has been talk of Turkey and of President Erdo中an. Sure, he's chosen to go in the same direction... unequivocally. But there are others too. We have seen it in Hungary, we see it in Poland. Both of these increasingly authoritarian states have been involved in discussions in the previous year. There is a sliding scale around how to find and test the systems and speak for an anti-liberal, anti-Western democracy. So there is a struggle, and it is good that Sweden and the Swedish delegation are essentially standing up for the values we have formed the Council of Europe for. The Convention is therefore being challenged. It is clearly challenged by Russia, where some areas are completely out of reach. It is also challenged by Azerbaijan. Azerbaijan was an issue in the Council of Ministers in the previous year. One of the political opposition leaders, Mammadov, is in prison, and despite the fact that we have a court order that is unique, they refuse to release him. Azerbaijan is important in several contexts, and it ties in with the corruption debate currently taking place in the Council of Europe, which will be visible in next year's report. This is a country that is clearly in breach of the Convention, and we will see if it will lead to the Secretary-General going harder. There are clear signs if Azerbaijan does not tighten up. Unfortunately, more are challenging the Convention. We heard from our British colleagues that it is said that in the next elections – not now on 8 June, but next time, when you have passed Brexit – the Convention is an issue that you will want to have on the agenda. It is, of course, very serious, because we have seen how others hide behind such statements. It is therefore also important that we see and act there. This is linked to the Court of Justice. We have not touched on this in the report, but there is reason to point out that Russia has chosen to partially decouple from the outcome of the Court. According to our legal system, the Court has the last, decisive word in human rights judgments, but Russia has chosen to decouple. By their own decision, they can make the final decision themselves. This follows others, and there is something we have every reason to watch out for, not least the Council of Ministers, which should guarantee the functionality of that part. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. There are many challenges. I hope that we will be able to face up to the current challenges of corruption and the fact that we have a President in this House who does not enjoy the confidence of the majority of Parliament but still remains. It is an institutional threat with which we have every reason to work to try to meet. I hope it will be possible, but I have some concerns about how it will succeed. Madam President, I would like I thank the delegation and the officials for their work over the past year. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-226	Madam President, I would like When the Council of Europe was established in 1949, it was in a broken Europe that had undergone two world wars, the second still fresh in mind. The task of the Council of Europe was to promote the values that the continent desperately needed, namely human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, in recent years, we have witnessed developments in several Member States of the Council of Europe showing stagnation. From Hungary, Poland, Russia and Turkey, among others, we hear reports of major setbacks to democracy and human rights abuses. From Hungary we hear how to threaten the closure of universities and how to restrict civil society and non-profit organisations. Turkey, which has been mentioned by a number of my colleagues, is perhaps the country that goes the furthest. There we see how the political leader, President Erdo中an, is acting to concentrate power on himself. We also see how women's rights are restricted and questioned when moving from a more secular state to a more religious state. At the same time, xenophobia and anti-Semitism are taking an increasingly strong hold on the whole of Europe. Perhaps it can be said that the democratic successes that we have seen on our continent for decades are no longer self-evident. The Council of Europe is an important player in addressing these challenges as this organisation has specific knowledge and competence, in comparison with other organisations, in promoting the aforementioned values. It is therefore gratifying when the Assembly demonstrates its capacity for action and marks, among other things, the resumption of monitoring of Turkey and the search for cooperation in the country which may involve the lifting of the state of emergency and the release of MEPs and journalists. Developments in Hungary are also high on the Assembly's agenda, and a resolution has been adopted calling on Hungary not to adopt the law that risks limiting the ability of individual organisations to operate. Much is being done, but much work remains to be done. The legitimacy and functioning of the Council of Europe can be determined by how the organisation meets all the challenges. Member States must feel obliged to comply in practice with the principles of membership. It is therefore reassuring that large parts of the Swedish delegation agree on how we need to act and work to strengthen the Council of Europe in the important work that remains. We have a good reputation and credibility in these matters, as we have demonstrated through our efforts as a Member State. We must build on this. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-236	Madam President, I would like Allow me to begin by thanking the officials of the OSCE delegation secretariat. Thanks to their efforts, we within the delegation have been able to be active and participate in a qualified manner in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. I would also like to thank my colleagues in the delegation for their efforts. We have all been active and participated in the activities carried out by the OSCE delegation. The OSSE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, is the world's largest security organisation with 57 Member States. Geographically it ranges from Vancouver in the west to Vladivostok in the east. The organization has a long history. As early as 1975, what was the embryo of the OSSE, the European Security Conference, was established for East-West negotiations. The OSCE Parliamentary Assembly was established in 1992, and progress has been made since then. It is important that there is a parliamentary assembly within the OSSE. We as parliamentarians are elected by the people. We have an opportunity to work in a broad perspective on security issues, a perspective that is also anchored in our respective countries and goes all the way down into our constituencies. In a troubled time like this, it is important to have a place in society. The activities of the OSCE are based on the Helsinki Agreement. All Member States have adopted and approved compliance with OSCE membership criteria. However, it has turned out that this can be interpreted in many different ways, because far from all the OSCE countries follow the democratic and human rights regime that we know. Within the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, we are working according to the three pillars that exist and which are also synonymous with the three committees. It is the Security Policy Committee, the Economic and Environment Committee and the Human Rights Committee. The Swedish delegation is active in all three committees. We take part in the debate and push questions. Let me mention a few issues where Sweden has been active and will continue to be active. The Security Policy Committee is concerned with the protracted conflicts in the OSCE area. Here we are trying in various ways to help break these conflicts. This applies to Moldova and Transnistria, Georgia and South Ossetia, Azerbaijan and also to Nagorno-Karabakh, where Armenia and Azerbaijan are involved. I would like to mention in particular the Russian aggression against Ukraine. It concerns the illegal annexation of Crimea but also what is going on in the south-east. The Swedish OSCE delegation is monitoring progress. We are talking about what we think is wrong, and we are pushing for by using the instruments within the OSSE. What we have also highlighted in the first committee is women's participation in peace-building work. If we are to have long-lasting real peace projects, women must also be involved. Let me give you a little picture of what it looks like in the OSSE with its 57 Member States. In the national OSCE delegations, 23% of the members of the delegation are women. In a number of delegations, many of which are European, there is not a single woman. That, of course, is not good. Both women and men are represented in the Swedish delegation. The work of the second Committee focuses on the environment, economic growth and corruption. I would like to mention a few words about corruption. In the election observations involving OSSE PA, there is an issue that always recurs when there is an election that does not work, and it is about corruption that permeates society from its smallest detail up to the highest level. It is an issue that I believe the OSSE should put much more effort into combating, because corruption is a scourge. The third committee is about human rights. There are some major issues that pervade the debate. It is about democracy, as I mentioned earlier, but it is also about developments in Turkey, where more and more human rights violations are taking place, and about respect for the printed and free speech. Let me mention that in Turkey more than 100 000 websites on the Internet are blocked and not accessible, and there are imprisoned journalists and dissidents. This is not acceptable. What we have also highlighted in the Third Committee is what it looks like with regard to political prisoners in Belarus. For a while it looked like President Lukasjenko released political prisoners, as is usually the case for every election, but reports of new detentions are now coming back. During the year, executions have already taken place – the death penalty exists in Belarus. This is not compatible with OSCE membership criteria. In this context, I would also like to mention the issue of refugees. It's extremely important. As we see it in the OSSE, it is partly about the perspective of human rights and partly about ensuring that refugees can also lead a safe life and have their rights monitored. It is also a question of the basic reasons why people choose to flee being countered. It's about war and more peace. It is about the possibility of economic confidence and faith and hope for the future. This is something that we in the OSSE are working for. So what do we do? I mentioned election observations, which are probably what the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly is best known for. Last year, 2016, the election year was squared. We conducted eight national election observations. In addition, there were some additional election observations concerning a second election. We have been in Kazakhstan, Belarus, Russia, Georgia, Montenegro, Moldova, the United States and Macedonia. It felt like we were a travelling circus society, but this is important, Madam President. Election observation is extremely important, because it contributes to the development of democracy. We in the OSSE have a special methodology that we follow and which is based on observations. We are cooperating with the Odihr, the Council of Europe, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and the Venice Commission, because there are several parameters to fall into place. We're not saying this was wrong. We say: You can do better, these are important issues that have not worked and we are happy to help. Within the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly there is informal cooperation with our Nordic-Baltic neighbours. There we highlight the issues that are important from a Nordic and Baltic perspective. I have reported eight minutes, Madam President. I would like to conclude by calling for our moderate reservation to be approved. I would like to say a few words about why we have written it. It is a question of the fact that, in times of turmoil, when many efforts are needed, it is very easy for the activities we carry out within the OSCE to expand. That is why we think it is important to look at the priorities of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. This needs to be reviewed, because it's better to do what we're supposed to do well than expand the business and do a lot but not do it as well.
i-8Vxib2XLuM8upCp5ZsTaH2	Welcome to today's Question Time! An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. I would also like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister of State Per Bolund and Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. Minister for Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-258	Mr President, I would like to There are many things that are going well in Sweden right now. We're in a boom. But in the midst of this boom and when the economy is booming, we have received ominous information from the Public Employment Service. For the first time since 2013, unemployment has started to rise. At the same time, DN reports that more and more municipalities have alarmingly high unemployment. And we know for some time that long-term unemployment is a major problem. All of this, then, is happening in the midst of a fiery boom. Reverse developments require reforms. If you can't turn this around in a boom, we can only imagine how it will be. We know and understand what happens in a recession. The problems will be very big. Anyone who does not come in now will have a very difficult time later.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-261	Mr President, I would like to It is true that Sweden is doing well, but it is also the case that we are in the midst of one of the biggest challenges we have ever faced. It is about accepting new people and establishing and integrating them into the Swedish labour market. Never before have so many people faced taking the step into the Swedish labour market as at present. Let's look at the statistics with objectivity. When people are granted a residence permit, they are registered at Arbetsförmedlingen on day one, and this is expected. This is excellent. But it also means that the big addition is about people who start their time in Sweden in unemployment. It is not very serious that you start in unemployment, but the serious thing is if you stay in unemployment. The government and my focus is therefore that people within two years should get a job or education. We have made proposals and we will make more proposals. If I have a supplementary question, I can tell you more about these.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-264	Mr President, I would like to If this was expected for the Minister, I wonder why we have not had more reforms at Parliament's table to deal with. We know that it is very difficult and takes a long time for immigrants to enter the Swedish labour market. It takes longer now than just a few years ago. That is why we want to see reforms for simple jobs. We want an education obligation so that you learn Swedish more quickly, and we want it to be easier for companies to hire people who have immigrated to Sweden. My question remains: which political reforms will solve the huge challenge facing Sweden, which risks getting worse if there are no political reforms?
i-b7e6013a640d250e-266	Mr President, I would like to Let me take an important example. The Government has put forward a proposal for changes in the start-up assignment. In my opinion, these are necessary changes. Parliament is expected to take a decision on this next month. As there is, I believe, a majority in favour of this in Parliament, the proposal will be implemented. It will thus be possible to make demands on the individual in a way that we have not been able to do before. It is, for example, a question of introducing an education obligation, as Elisabeth Svantesson mentions. It is also a question of being able to make demands that, like all the other unemployed, they must be involved in activities. You have to take assigned work, otherwise you can ultimately lose your remuneration.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-268	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson. It has been a week today since the ID checks to our country were removed. The very day before, last Wednesday, we debated the issue in this House in connection with a report. The Minister for Migration stated, among other things, that it is now possible to remove the controls when the situation has normalised. Persons who have not been registered in the EU and in Germany in particular are likely to have been registered by now. In Sweden, we are now at a minimum level of asylum rules. My question is: does the Minister think that we should still be at such a level? I ask the question, not least because, after a few days, there has already been a huge increase in the number of people seeking asylum at our borders as a result of the removal of the ID checks.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-271	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes you should wait to speak until you have seen what the development looks like. I brought the numbers for the week in question. Then last Thursday until yesterday, Wednesday, 434 people applied for asylum in Sweden. It's nothing more or less than it's been in the last year. On the contrary, it is roughly the same figures as we have seen before, with between 400 and 500 per week in the last year. So there is no reason at all for alarmism in the light of this week. At the same time, as I have said before, we are now following developments day by day. Should we see a sharp increase as this starts to run away, we are of course prepared to reintroduce the ID controls. But that's not where we are today. What Paula Bieler feared last week has not yet come true.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-274	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. Yes, it's been a very short time. But the reason why I highlighted this last week and that I believe that there are still reasons for concern is not least what the Migration Agency writes in its last report. It points out that the flow to Europe has increased again. This applies to both the central Mediterranean route and the other roads around. It also states that there is a significant risk that the controls that have been introduced across Europe will fall in line with increased influx. How often should we have to get a switch between the ID-checks' goods or non-goods?
i-b7e6013a640d250e-276	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the increase in the central Mediterranean route, the vast majority of people who come this way do not have Sweden as a destination country but other countries. And as we all know, it is more difficult to get through Europe than it was before. So far, 434 asylum seekers have arrived in the last week. It is no more or less than the average in the last year. But, of course, we have the issue under constant surveillance.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-279	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Ylva Johansson. The red-greens have repeatedly promised Europe's lowest unemployment rate. Instead, we get higher unemployment rates during a booming boom. This may not be surprising. For a long time, the government's passivity was concealed by generally good times and good pressure in both the Swedish and international economies. But now we see the truth. Our unemployment rates are rising at the peak of a historically strong boom. This is not good enough, but unfortunately it is not very surprising. If you have an agenda that is based on gradually making it more expensive to hire, increase taxes on jobs and for companies and not take the regulatory work seriously so that it becomes easier and cheaper for companies to hire, then what it gets is what it gets. Ylva Johansson! When should the government admit that tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship do not lead to lower unemployment?
i-b7e6013a640d250e-282	Mr President, I would like to Since we took office, Sweden has experienced a steady decline in unemployment. What Arbetsförmedlingen showed yesterday is that the number of people enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen has increased. This is a very expected development. In fact, everything else would have been serious. Because when many new arrivals now receive their residence permit, we require them to sign up for the Employment Service from the first day. Then there will be more enrolment. And, of course, they are unemployed on their first day of enrollment. It is about foreign born, and the vast majority of them are born outside Europe. So that is what is going on, and developments are expected. But Emil Källström paints it as if it were difficult for companies to hire today. That's not the picture we're seeing. On the contrary, we have over 100,000 vacancies. The most common issue in which I face concerns from employers is that people with the right skills are not available. You're screaming for manpower in a lot of sectors.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-285	Mr President, I would like to That was a lot of words but few answers. Let me boil this down to the core! In fact, the number of unemployed in Sweden is increasing at the peak of a burning boom. There are 4 000 more unemployed in Sweden today than a year ago, despite good times. This can be boiled down to a very simple question, Ylva Johansson : Are you satisfied with the unemployment statistics?
i-b7e6013a640d250e-286	Mr President, I would like to There are 4,000 more registered at Arbetsförmedlingen than a year ago. Given that there are 16 000 more people enrolled in the start-up assignment than a year ago, this is a very expected development. This means that the labour market should be able to swallow many unemployed people who have got their job. The biggest challenge today in the labour market is to equip newcomers to enter the Swedish labour market and to ensure – and here more needs to be done – that employers get the right people with the right skills. Then we must invest in education and skills development.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-287	Mr President, I would like to I also have a question for Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. A key part of the Swedish model is order and order in the labour market and that unions and employers agree on the terms and conditions together. As I said, the Swedish economy is doing better, and the labour market is in some places glowing. The employment rate is also record high, and the wheels are spinning faster and faster. However, there are also concerns about abuses that need to be curbed and structures that need to be changed in the labour market. A worrying development is precarious forms of employment. There is a high risk that vulnerable people will be exploited by rogue employers. There are examples of rogue actors who circumvent laws and regulations, so that employees are squeezed. General fixed-term work, short-term employment, planing of working hours and timvikari that are surrounded by almost no notice are examples of insecurity in the Swedish labour market today.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-291	Mr President, I would like to That's correct. In Sweden we have no labour inspectors as in many other countries. It is the task of the unions to ensure the conditions. This means that we need strong trade unions. Otherwise, people do not get the necessary protection. We need collective agreements in the labour market. Otherwise, you are not guaranteed any salary at all. It's important. It is, of course, a model that has its flaws. But it is a model that has proved to be far better than the comparable models. That is why we should defend and develop it, not phase it out. I share the view that there is a major problem of insecurity and exploitation of people in the Swedish labour market. We're gonna deal with this piece by piece. That's why the government has introduced human resources in the construction industry. That is why we have introduced the right of expression and freedom of communication for people working in publicly funded private welfare. That is why we have introduced protection for whistleblowers. That's why we've put in place a stop to the stacking of latids. That's why we're changing and tearing up lex Laval. We have a wide range of new proposals in this area.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-294	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I would like to take a specific example that is topical. I would like to know how the Government sees companies such as Uber Eats, which seem to have both uncertain and unsympathetic conditions for their bicycle couriers, which transport food across and across here in Stockholm, for example. Yesterday you could read about a reporter who worked for this company and then earned 39 kroner an hour before tax. Apparently, people there are also afraid to join Transport, which is the trade union you should be in.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-295	Mr President, I would like to I have also taken note of these media data and am seriously concerned about them. They show what happens when existing protection systems do not work, i.e. when unions and employers have not signed collective agreements or the degree of union membership is low or non-existent in a workplace. This is an area in which we absolutely need to make more efforts to ensure that people are insured at work, have decent working conditions and do not need to work for a spit styve.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-297	Mr President, I would like to Minister for Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke is on her way to get up, and she can do that, because she is indeed the one to whom I shall ask my question. Mental ill health is increasing. In a report from the National Board of Health and Welfare from March this year, we can read that health is improving, while anxiety and anxiety are increasing. Despite improved health, sick leave rates are increasing, especially due to mental illness. The trend has persisted for several years, and it is mainly women who are affected. Another group in society that generally has worse living conditions than the rest of the population and also higher mental ill-health are LGBTQ people. According to a report from the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare 2016, the risk of depression and anxiety is twice as high among men in same-sex relationships compared to other men. Women living with women have a three-fold higher risk of dependence and risk use. Mortality of disease and suicide is also higher in these groups compared to others. I would like to ask what the government is doing about this.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-300	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. Everything Emma Hult says is true. LGBTQ people are a group in our society that clearly has worse living conditions than many other groups. This applies to both young and older LGBT ‐ people. This is totally unacceptable in 2017. That's why the government is acting forcefully. We've been doing that since we took office. We have a number of things that we have already put into effect. With rights in focus, we have strengthened and changed the Discrimination Act. We have greatly strengthened support for DO and anti-discrimination agencies. We now know that transgender people will eventually be included in the law on incitement to ethnic groups. It is also the case that transgender people who have undergone sterilisation will be able to apply for compensation from the state. These are some of the changes that we have put in the lake and that we are now making since we took office.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-302	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer, which is partly also an answer to what I was going to say in my supplementary question. But now that we are standing here, I can also take the opportunity to address the global situation, which looks much worse than what we have in Sweden. I am thinking in particular of the terrible events in Chechnya that have recently been brought to our attention. What did the government do there? How does the government think about these issues globally?
i-b7e6013a640d250e-303	Mr President, I would like to We think a lot, but we have also acted. Above all, we have acted through Foreign Minister Wallström, who through the EU has strongly condemned what has happened and called on Russia to investigate what is happening. We also have our cabinet secretary, the South, who has talked with the Russian ambassador about what is happening. We in Sweden have a strong civil society that has long supported its partners in Russia and Chechnya. What is going on is terrible abuse that is not accepted.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-305	Mr President, I would like to I want to ask Morgan Johansson a question. Recently, the country's county administrative boards sounded the alarm that a large number of municipalities are on their knees as a result of Sweden's record refugee reception in 2015, when a total of 163 000 arrived. There is, among other things, a lack of staff at school and social services. There is also a lack of housing, school facilities and more. At the same time, the Migration Agency closes a large number of its accommodations, and the problem of obtaining housing is transferred to the municipalities. The hasty decision the other week is welcomed by many of those commuting. But we're risking an increase. I would therefore like to ask how the Minister views the risk of the number of asylum seekers increasing again and whether the government has a plan to help the municipalities.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-308	Mr President, I would like to First of all, we must say that we are not going back to the situation that prevailed in autumn 2015. It was thanks to the measures we then took by the government, with new legislation, border controls and ID controls, that we were able to cope with the situation for all those who came in 2015. Unfortunately, as a result of your internal divisions in the Moderates, you did not vote in favour of the ID checks. You did not support them in Parliament. But it was absolutely necessary to be able to use ID controls during this period. Now it is a situation when they are going out into municipalities. We are following the situation very closely. The vast majority of municipalities do their job. There are some municipalities that don't. We work with them especially supportively. But the basic message is that we created this breathing space precisely in order to be able to cope with integration and community reception. We are not going to let go of that control, Mr President.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-310	Mr President, I would like to In terms of ID controls, many commuters are happy down with us. But it is also a question of how the checks were carried out. They were a little messy. It's more a question of how than a question of asking. The Minister says that most municipalities can do this. I'm the vice-chairman of our housing company myself. We fight hard, and our attempts to find places for housing are appealed. I still wonder how one might help the municipalities if there are to be even more housing, teachers and so on.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-313	Mr President, I would like to A large number of people arrived in 2015. That's what we're working on now. But we're not going back there. We shall not see the situation that prevailed again in 2015. Then there is the need for municipalities to cope with the situation. Fortunately, there is legislation that says that all municipalities must accept new arrivals. It was a law that the Moderates were against for many years but that we finally managed to get you on board. There was a deal. Otherwise, that legislation would not exist, and it would have been more difficult. Now I think we're going to get through this.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-316	Mr President, I would like to My intention was to ask Minister Åsa Regnér a question, but she was prevented from doing so. That is why I am addressing my question to Minister Ylva Johansson, who has overall responsibility today.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-318	In January this year 12 per cent of those who applied for assistance compensation from Försäkringskassan received it. This is to be seen in the light of the fact that a few decades ago, every fourth to every fifth person who applied for compensation received it. Now it's 12%. And there has been no change in who is seeking. Försäkringskassan's forecast came last week. It shows that the funds allocated will not be needed. It is estimated that spending for this year will be 2.2 billion lower.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-321	Mr President, I would like to Let me first state that LLS and assistance are a reform of freedom that has meant and means a great deal to people. This government intends to safeguard and defend that reform. People who need a lot of help in order to live a good life over which they themselves control should be able to do so. The government has not proposed any restrictions on that reform, nor do we intend to do so. But there have been a number of legal cases that have affected the application in Försäkringskassan. There are other things that also affect how to make different assessments. Against this background, the Government has given Försäkringskassan and the National Board of Health and Welfare a number of assignments to deepen knowledge of how decisions are made today and how different case law has affected. The LSS is an important reform, but it is a reform that involves a lot of resources. It is important that resources are used properly.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-324	Mr President, I would like to In January, there were drastically fewer compensations granted. This is a change that has taken place. There was a change already in the previous year. There were fewer and fewer during the whole of last year, but it continues to change drastically. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency forecast in February estimated that half a billion of the budget allocated would not be spent. Now there are another 1.7 billion people who believe that you should not use. It happens from one prognosis to another. What new decisions has the government made, in addition to setting up the investigations?
i-b7e6013a640d250e-327	Mr President, I would like to A well-functioning reform gives freedom and self-determination to those who are in great need of assistance. We agree on that. The best reform is not the one that incurs the greatest costs, but it is the one that has the best effect. It is therefore, of course, important that the resources are used for the people to whom they should go and that the resources are used for the assistance to which people are entitled. That's what the government's gonna stand up for.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-329	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. The government has wanted to give a picture of Sweden being at the forefront in the work against violent extremism. The last six months have, to say the least, shown a lack of capacity and preparedness for IS returnees from conflict areas, as well as a lack of preparedness for municipalities' work against radicalisation and extremism, such as poor information from other authorities. We have also heard the government say in a strange way whether or not the municipalities have succeeded in this work. Liberals have also drawn attention to the issue of public contributions to extreme organisations. Then there is the question of the telephone number where worried relatives can call for support. Opening hours have not changed despite the criticism that came last year.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-332	Mr President, I would like to I waited for the question, but I'm still talking. I'm thinking it's touching the support phone. One of the tasks assigned to the national coordinator included testing whether, like what has been done in other countries, we could also use a support phone where worried people or people who have suspicions can call in order to get guidance to expertise in order to deal with people who are at risk of harming others or themselves. The mission was piloted, and it did not work well. That's why a new organization was assigned. It is now Save the Children who are doing the work, and we are waiting for an evaluation of that pilot activity to see if it should continue or not. It is extremely important that such an activity should work.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-335	Mr President, I would like to It's strange that the mission hasn't been evaluated. An evaluation of the mission was announced with a support phone against extremism for relatives already last year. The mission has changed and been transferred to Save the Children. Save the Children has received more money, 2.5 million instead of 1.2 million. But the opening hours are still daytime 9 - 16. Other services are provided in the evening or around the clock. Will it be considered by the government?
i-b7e6013a640d250e-337	Mr President, I would like to The work that Sweden is doing against violent extremism is done in broad agreement with the Liberals, among other things. Piloting the business before we put it in the lake permanently is a professional way of dealing with the issue. Now the organisation has been commissioned to become a permanent business from the end of the year. I hope that in broad agreement we will ensure that there is access to professional support 24 hours a day.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-339	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Per Bolund. My question is about the premium pension scheme. In recent times it has become well known that many funds are spectacularly expensive and poor and that managers also charge provocatively high commissions. It is good that the government is acting against this, and we have all paid attention and welcome to this. But there is one more problem that is less attentive. It is about the state today making demands on the state companies to have a sustainability thinking and to act exemplary. Similar requirements are also placed on the management of the AP funds. But within the PPM system, which is a forced saving, those requirements do not exist. Many funds do not carry out any sustainability work at all. The risk is then that savers' money will be invested in companies that violate workers' rights or take no environmental considerations at all. What does the Minister intend to do about this?
i-b7e6013a640d250e-343	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mrs Ingela Nylund Watz, for a very important question! It is urgent that we now take decisions to strengthen the security and stability of the premium pension system. The shortcomings identified are unacceptable. We need to review this so that all of us, as pension savers, can feel confident that our money is managed properly and for the sake of our own financial gain. We need to set strict quality standards. Everyone who enters the premium pension square should conduct a serious business. This also applies to the environment. For the parties in the Pensions Group there is a common broad focus on raising the quality requirements and increasing the requirements for sustainability work. This strengthens the possibility of getting a good return for pension savers. Those who have a good structured sustainability work generate better returns and can keep lower fees. We believe that this benefits pension savers in the long term.
i-UzFAxWUFqS5qdt81QY8qf4	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It sounds like there is good hope of a development that will prevent us from seeing that some funds are ousting the workforce or the environment. I'm glad to hear that. Nevertheless, what I think is important, and I would like to hear the final comments of the Government, is that confidence in the premium pension system is eroding. How fast can you move forward?
i-b7e6013a640d250e-349	Mr President, I would like to It is urgent that we quickly come up with concrete measures. I am very pleased that we have a broad consensus in the Pensions Group and that there is a strong commitment from all the six parties involved in it to the fact that we now need to restore confidence in the premium pension system. We must ensure that fortune seekers do not have a place and an opportunity to act. Pension managers who do not have a serious business and who do not work for the benefit of pension savers should not be able to enter. It also includes having high ambitions in terms of sustainability.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-351	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister of Culture. One of the most topical topics in the field of culture at the moment is the cultural heritage bill. The Minister for Culture has expressed in various contexts, including in SVT, that it is not up to her as a politician to define what cultural heritage is. My question is: how does the Minister of Culture intend to make responsible decisions if she cannot define what she decides on?
i-b7e6013a640d250e-353	Mr President, I would like to Finally, Sweden has a strong cultural heritage policy. I have presented the first cultural heritage bill here in Parliament. One of the main features of this bill is a museum law, which cuts the ties between cluttered politicians and culture and free art. Here it is important that politicians like the Member of Parliament and I do not sit and point out: that is culture; that is fine luck and that is ugly culture. Instead, we must allow the professionals who are present in our institutions, in our museums and in the non-profit sector to be the ones who present this ever-changing. We're gonna keep our fingers out, or we'll know how it goes. It goes like in countries on the other side of the Baltic Sea, such as Poland, where politicians have started to define: This is what we are going to tell you, this is our cannon, this is what we are going to pump into people in our country. We will ensure that Sweden does not go that way.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-356	Mr President, I would like to I do not mean that we politicians should enter and regulate all areas in detail, but if we cannot in any way define what we mean by cultural heritage, we cannot make responsible decisions; then we do not know what those decisions will mean for the parties involved. Of course, it is good to work inclusively and openly, but it must not be done at the expense of the enormous work that so many people do every day in the cultural heritage sector, both professionally and on a voluntary basis. If you do not dare to recognise the cultural heritage, you will be demeaning and denying this enormous work. In addition, they take away its heritage, identity and history from the Swedish people.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-358	Mr President, I would like to I love the Swedish cultural heritage. That's why I want to work on it, and I'm trying so hard to protect it. When talking about cultural heritage, according to the profession and experts, the definition is: Cultural heritage are traces and expressions of the past that matter to us today. This is what we are supposed to keep and protect, and then we are going to stay very far away.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-361	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson. The number of long-term unemployed continues to increase. The share of the long-term unemployed without intervention is increasing. The government has in recent years scattered new types of wage support that have not been very successful. It has become 567 trainee jobs instead of 32,000, as promised. Instead of 20 000 additional posts, it has become 3 200. And so far it has become 91 modern standby jobs, most of them at Arbetsförmedlingen itself. At the same time, the government has reduced the pay subsidy that actually worked: the new start jobs introduced by the Alliance government. Yesterday, we were able to read figures on how new start jobs dive since the government tightened the requirements for them. The Minister has said that this is okay.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-364	Mr President, I would like to Historically, governments have often made the mistake of designing labour market policies for a labour market that has already been and missed changing labour market policies as the labour market changes. We now have, which we did not have before this government took office, a very strong development in the Swedish labour market, very strong growth and very high demand for labour. In that situation, there is, I believe, no reason to target large subsidies to people who are a little closer to the labour market. Many of them get jobs anyway, as is shown by the study carried out by IFAU, which pointed to deadweight costs with the new start jobs. That is why we have reduced the ceilings for how high wages can be paid; previously there were no ceilings. We have also redirected to target those who are far from the labour market, and we have shortened the time in support. I think this is reasonable to do in a situation where we have such strong developments in the labour market. There is no intrinsic value in having as many labour market policy measures as possible.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-367	Mr President, I would like to No, of course it doesn't. But fresh start jobs have really helped the people who are the furthest away from the labour market and given them the opportunity to get back into the labour market. This has worked best for those who need it most. I am thinking about how the Minister, at a time when long-term unemployment and the proportion of long-term unemployed without activity are increasing, may consider this to be okay and that it is justified to reduce the number of new jobs.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-369	Mr President, I would like to I do not know what Jessika Roswall is based on – that new jobs would be aimed above all at those who are farthest from the labour market. We have other support for them. New start jobs have been aimed at those who are a little closer to the labour market. But it is an important support, and we should continue to work on new start-ups. It is my absolute view that they play a major role. However, it is not correct for them to be targeted at those who are furthest from the labour market, and it is, I believe, correct that aid should be adjusted. When the labour market is good, support for those closer to the labour market should be reduced.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-372	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Culture and Democracy. Imagine not having the opportunity to lose yourself in a single new book or not to marvel at a new work of art! Imagine how poor our society would be! It's scary to think about it, but it also gives us an understanding of which extremely important room writers, visual artists, photographers and others who create art fills. We need more art creators, not less. A good cultural policy therefore depends on those who create culture for others having good conditions themselves. What does the government do to strengthen artists' conditions?
i-b7e6013a640d250e-374	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. We are doing a great deal, and hopefully we will do a lot more before the end of the term of office. It's easy to talk and say a lot of beautiful words about how important art is, but it's a completely different thing to finance it and make a real difference. One of the big things we've done lately is that we've raised the library allowance. This may not sound so exciting – except in our world, those of us who work with culture all the time – but it is about our artists, who fill our important libraries with content, getting more paid for each work on loan. During the period, we raise it by as much as SEK 30 million. It is a huge investment, and many writers, photographers, and cartoonists rejoice at this.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-376	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is truly gratifying that the library allowance has been prioritised by the current government. I wonder what the results of the increase are, both in the short and long term. What are the long-term effects of the library compensation?
i-b7e6013a640d250e-377	Mr President, I would like to The library remuneration is an absolutely central remuneration for our authors and artists – the artists and photographers. It's an important income in their lives. But we need to do much more. What we've also done is we've set up an artist's investigation. We're investigating artists' conditions, which haven't been done in 20 years. This government does, and we will have a lot of hard proposals on how to improve the conditions for artists in our country, which will benefit all of us.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-380	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. Sweden is doing very well now, and despite the latest statistics, which show that unemployment is increasing, youth unemployment has actually decreased. A few years ago, the Minister for Labour said something like the government has now solved youth unemployment. However, the improved labour market situation for young people does not benefit everyone. We see an increased split between the young people who are close to the labour market and are well placed to get a job and those who are a bit further away. In the statistics that came in yesterday, we see, among other things, that the open unemployment rate among young people who have been unemployed for more than 120 days has increased since the previous year.
i-7weSYqKfCcwLqikNxbDwDM	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Fredrik Christensson, for the question! It is clear that youth unemployment is falling. The government is working on introducing a 90-day guarantee. This means that not a single young person should be unemployed for more than 90 days before moving on to studies or other activities leading to work. We are well on the way to achieving this. A group of young people are not covered by the 90-day guarantee, and they are young people within the establishment mandate. It's normally 24 months. It's probably not really realistic if you have a plan of 24 months to finish after 90 days. I think you're gonna need the 24 months. An increasing proportion of young people enrolled in the Employment Service as unemployed are now part of the start-up mandate. It is a natural development because there are more and more people who are enrolled in the establishment mission. As far as these young people are concerned, my focus is that they should come to work within the start-up period.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-386	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer, even if it does not make me much wiser. One question I asked was: will the government carry out any reforms for those young people who are even further away from the labour market to overcome the split between those who are close to the labour market and are well placed and those who are now further away from the labour market and find it much more difficult to get their first job? What will the government present for the necessary reforms? The reforms that have been implemented – the 90-day guarantee, trainee jobs and so on – have not had that effect on unemployment.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-389	Mr President, I would like to It has had a very good effect on unemployment. We have the lowest unemployment rate in 13 years. In addition, if we exclude those who are full-time students, we must go even further back to see such low levels. Of course, the reforms have had a good effect. However, I would like to make it clear that it is not realistic to believe that those who are enrolled in the establishment mission will manage by 90 days. I am moving towards these young people getting to work or studying. It is not realistic to aim for 90 days.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-391	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister of Justice. The government's decision to lift passport controls between Sweden and Denmark has been greeted with great relief by commuters in Skåne. This means a return to the freedom of passports between the Nordic countries that we are used to. The concern about the terrorist and arms smuggler threat is probably with all of us.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-395	Mr President, I would like to After all, it was not the passport controls that were lifted, but it was the ID checks that we lifted last week. Border controls are still in Hyllie and Lernacken and elsewhere when entering Sweden. Last week we said that this control would be further strengthened. There is a need for checks on who and what comes into Sweden. Even before we decommissioned the ID controls, between 90 and 100% of the passengers on the trains were controlled in Hyllie. In Lernacken, where cars are controlled, control will be expanded and more technology will be introduced for vehicle X-rays and cameras that can read registration plates.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-398	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Justice. Does this mean that the police and customs services will be strengthened at border controls now that ID controls have been lifted?
i-b7e6013a640d250e-400	Mr President, I would like to We make decisions on budgetary matters in relation to spring and autumn budgets. We strengthened police operations by SEK 700 million for this year. Even before the end of the month, nearly 100 percent of the border controls at Hyllie were carried out. We are, of course, prepared to provide additional resources to the authorities concerned in order for them to be able to carry out their mission. But we will take a position on this when we decide on the budget.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-402	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ylva Johansson. On behalf of the Government, the Swedish Tax Agency, in consultation with the Finnish Immigration Service, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, the Swedish Statistical Office and the Swedish National Agency for Education, has examined the conditions for allowing all asylum seekers in Sweden to receive a coordination number. The coordination number ensures an identifier for a person who has never been registered in Sweden. This makes it easier for government contacts, for investing in municipalities, access to health care and education. It also reduces the current risk of confusion. In particular, the coordination number promotes the integration of asylum seekers and asylum seekers into Swedish society. According to the Swedish Tax Agency's memorandum, the rules were proposed to enter into force on 1 July 2017, and now we are soon there. We have not seen that the government has put forward any proposal. My question to the Minister is whether we can expect such a proposal.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-407	Mr President, I would like to It is desirable that as many asylum seekers as possible can have a coordination number. Just as Larry Söder describes here, it makes things easier for a lot of things. Co-ordination numbers are assigned when one can prove one's identity. Since these are people who have not yet had their asylum reasons tested, it can also be a little bit of a part of a part 22 if one at the same time proves an identity that in turn can pose a threat to the individual. It is important to ensure that no one else can know that a person is here seeking asylum in Sweden before the matter has been examined. This is not a simple question. The authorities continue to discuss with the government how to find ways forward here. But we have not yet come up with a way that could work without having other consequences.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-410	Mr President, I would like to I'm afraid that's a message I don't want. I think the coordination number would be helpful, especially in the case of health examinations for newcomers who are not working very well today. This also means that direct monitoring of the health situation in that group cannot be carried out. I think it would be very helpful for those who come to Sweden to have a coordination number. I am very sorry about that answer. I would like to see this proposal submitted to Parliament as soon as possible.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-413	Mr President, I would like to I can assure Larry Söder that I have the same ambition. I understand that much would be made easier. What needs to be ensured is that the risks do not increase for a person who is an asylum seeker and who does not receive a residence permit without having to leave Sweden. That is what we must ensure. These are the issues that are still being considered and discussed, and I hope that we can find a solution.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-416	Mr President, I would like to I want to ask Per Bolund my question. Brexit will bring about some changes in the financial market and how it will look in the future. I do not believe that Stockholm, which is a major financial market centre in Sweden, will be affected so much by the English financial market. My question is: will the Minister's assessment indicate that the Swedish financial market and, above all, Stockholm's financial market will see changes as a result of Brexit?
i-b7e6013a640d250e-419	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Börje Vestlund, for a very important question! The Swedish Government deplores the decision taken by the British people. We would have liked the UK to have remained in the EU. Then we could have continued to get decisions in the right direction. We have often had a common vision. Now that the British have made their decision, it is clear that we are clear to point out that Sweden and Stockholm are a very suitable market for operating, not least in financial services. The Swedish financial market is doing very well. Swedish banks show a high return, and Swedish regulation has also proven to be effective. It is clear that we are informing international actors about this. When I am travelling, I notice a great interest in Sweden as a basis for market and activity, for example within the European Union. Sweden will continue to be part of the internal market and thus have access to a very large population and a large customer base. I notice that not least our rate of innovation and degree of innovation are very attractive to many financial actors who want to be at the forefront when it comes to digitalisation, for example. I think we will see many who are seeking Sweden.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-425	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Alice Bah Kuhnke. Sweden has a very strong protection for employees in the public sector who sound the alarm about shortcomings in the business. It is forbidden to request journalists' sources. But what happens when the media themselves expose employees who sound the alarm about shortcomings? Has the legislation caught up with the media landscape of the new era? A assistant nurse started a Facebook group where he talked about shortcomings that he sees in his workplace in particular and in healthcare in general. He has links to news in established media, and his will was to do it anonymously. But despite this, state-owned SVT News revealed who the anonymous assistant nurse was in a news item on the web that was very negatively angled. Of course, neither I nor the Minister can comment on what news SVT is sending, but I would still like to ask the Minister: What should the citizen do who is being hanged in a web report on SVT News to get redress if he thinks that SVT has done wrong?
i-b7e6013a640d250e-429	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Beckman, for the question! Questions about public service activities we refer to the ongoing investigations. I know the questioner understands that. However, when it comes to abuse or the fact that crimes have been committed, there are, of course, legal ways in our rule of law to take the matter further. I am absolutely convinced that journalism in general has a high level of press ethics. This is also confirmed and is a fact compared to many other countries. Of course, we always have the usual way to go when we want to pursue matters in the rule of law that we are.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-431	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson. I am proud that Sweden has taken and takes a great responsibility to receive refugees. Nevertheless, we are facing a major challenge when it comes to getting newcomers to work. Although the economy is going well, jobs are getting more and unemployment among young people is record low, we know that it will be tough for many newcomers to get their first job. Since before, we know that foreign-born women find it particularly difficult to get a job and therefore have their own livelihood. This is particularly true of those who have a short or no education. In my own county, there is about 7% difference between foreign and domestic women born in unemployment.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-435	Mr President, I would like to I share the outrage at the enormous gender gap in the situation of newly arrived women and men and their conditions in the labour market. The truth is that a man with very poor education – less than primary school – has a much higher chance of getting a job than a woman with a university degree. That's how bad it actually looks. There is a significant gender perspective here that is important. Then what does the government do? We are making changes to parental legislation to ensure that it is not a trap for women who have come to Sweden when they already have children. We've already abolished the custody allowance. We have a special assignment to Arbetsförmedlingen regarding foreign-born women. We are now working on a change to the establishment assignment, which is now on the table of the Riksdag. I'm counting on decisions in June. This will give us greater flexibility and clearer requirements and enable us to overcome the problem of those who have so-called empty establishment plans, which is mostly women. We are investing heavily in education, and we are introducing start-up support, which I believe will mean a lot to many newly arrived women.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-439	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson. The work against hate crimes and the possibility of prosecuting the perpetrators is an important task for the police and the judiciary. We are now getting stories, not least from the hate crime group here in Stockholm, that you do not have time to prioritise this work but are drowned in other chores. In other locations similar groups are dissolved. In Gothenburg, the employees in the group stop doing other things. This has a direct impact on the judiciary's ability to prosecute.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-442	Mr President, I would like to Hate crimes and investigation of them are a priority work of the government. At the same time, we do not control the police in detail, but it is the responsibility of the Political Authority to ensure that the right resources are allocated and to hire the people you need. On the contrary, my picture is that hate crime groups have now been built up both in southern Sweden and here in the Stockholm area in a way that they did not have before. It may be true that there may be problems on some points, as Bengt Eliasson says. Then I'm prepared to take a look at it. I am sure that the Minister for the Interior, Anders Ygeman, who is in charge of police matters, has the same attitude. But the government believes that hate crimes must be prioritised. Then, of course, it is up to us to give the police the resources and the capacity they need to do this. That is also why we are going in with very big money to the Police Authority – over 700 million this year and additional money coming year.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-445	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Culture Alice Bah Kuhnke. In a press release from October 2014, the Minister of Culture writes that the fees in the cultural school should be reduced. It spends 400 million over four years on this to make it available to everyone. In an article last Friday they interviewed the head of culture in Botkyrka – Botkyrka has one of the county's lowest fees, 350 SEK, which is well below the average in Sweden. In the article she says that the proportion of participants from the socio-economically weaker areas in northern Botkyrka has hardly changed since Botkyrka more than halved the fee in 2012. The Secretary-General of the Council of Culture Schools says in the same article that a reduction in the fee means that those who are already involved in cultural activities will have additional subsidised activities. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Culture is whether she thinks it is right to subsidise the fees even more, as we can see that it does not produce the desired effect.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-449	Mr President, I would like to Thank you Isabella Hökmark for the question! No, the fee is certainly not all that we need to change so that cultural school is not just a fantastic municipal activity for middle class and upper middle class children. But the fee is now one of the things that changes, thanks to the government's priority to invest 100 million SEK a year, which will go to quality improvement efforts. There's the fee part. At the moment, many facilities are being adapted to function variations. They train teachers in the cultural school. You buy more instruments. You buy computers. Suddenly you open more doors so that every child in our country will have the opportunity to stand on stage if they want to. They will have the opportunity to test and grow as a human being through the activities of the cultural school. We are a government that takes culture school seriously and, together with Sweden's municipalities, will work to ensure that many more children will have this opportunity.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-453	Mr President, I would like to This week, SKL warned that the costs for municipalities and county councils would increase by 6-7 billion more than the expected revenues in the coming years. It will seriously threaten the welfare that will be offered to the citizens. A policy is needed for more companies, more people who work and fewer people who live on subsidies – a policy that the government lacks.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-455	Mr President, I would like to Since the government took office, the number of people working and paying taxes has increased sharply and the number of people living on benefits has fallen sharply. We intend to continue with such a policy, because that is the basis for us to have good finances. Since this government took office, we also have good finances. We have turned large deficits in public finances into surpluses. We have surpluses year after year. This is a good basis for us to continue with the policy in which we also invest record resources in the welfare of municipalities and county councils – in schools, in the care of the elderly, in childcare and in health care. More will be needed in the future. Then it will be an important choice. Should we invest more resources in welfare by means of policies that have more people in work, or should we invest in greater tax cuts? Perhaps that will be the biggest question on which voters will have to decide in next year's elections.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-457	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson on the final report of the Sexual Crimes Committee. When a person is sexually abused, it is not a temporary violation. Almost all the victims carry the wounds throughout their lives. In addition, sexual abuse affects women's security and freedom. A lot of women do not feel safe at home or in public spaces. That is why the fight against sexual abuse must be conducted at all levels. My question to the Government is: When can a proposal be expected in response to the proposal of the Sexual Crime Committee?
i-b7e6013a640d250e-460	Mr President, I would like to The short answer is that we will have a legislative proposal ready in the autumn and that new legislation will come into force before the end of this parliamentary term. We're preparing those legislative changes right now. We have a good report from the Sexual Crime Committee to deal with. It is important for this government to go forward with reforms that strengthen respect for sexual integrity. The starting point must be that what is not voluntary is abuse. It is a clear signal to everyone in Sweden that this is also the case in criminal matters. So we go forward with a stronger law. But we will also come forward with better support for the victims of crime, by early deployment of plaintiffs. We have done a lot in the area of criminal law during this period. We have tightened up penalties for drug offences, for serious violent crimes and so on. However, I regard the reform that we are now going to make as the most important criminal justice reform during this period.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-463	Mr President, I would like to This week the leaders of the Social Democrats in the European Parliament, Marita Marita, have posed with a picture of a convicted Palestinian terrorist. A few weeks ago the Jewish association in Umeå was forced to close because of threats of violence and more. Jews all over Sweden feel increasingly persecuted and insecure. Sweden is also identified as one of the worst and most insecure countries in Europe to live in for Jews. Among other things, my party, the Moderates, has proposed a tripling of the effort to increase the security of vulnerable religions. Alice Bah Kuhnke has been asked a number of times what the government is doing to counter the increasing anti-Semitism. I would like the Minister for Culture to be able to answer this question with a little more seriousness and seriosity than other questions here today. How does the Minister of Culture think this work has gone?
i-b7e6013a640d250e-465	Mr President, I would like to Anti-Semitism in our country is a disgrace. It's a disgrace all over the world. And that is something that we really take seriously. We have made a number of efforts – and we will continue to do so – including in the community council where my State Secretary and I are in close contact with the Jewish parishes in Stockholm and in other parts of the country. It is about increased resources that the various Jewish congregations and other cultural facilities need in order to have security around them. But it is also about not accepting anti-Semitism where it shows its ugly face. It does in lyrics. It does so online in the small messages of different actors. Sometimes it's nice. Sometimes it's more obvious. But wherever it appears, let's be clear. That is unacceptable.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-468	Mr President, I would like to Six out of ten containers imported into or exported from Sweden pass the Port of Gothenburg. Swedish companies and the Swedish economy depend entirely on the Port of Gothenburg. The employer and the trade union concerned, Transport, have negotiated and agreed on a collective agreement on salaries and other terms of employment. Thus, the duty of peace should apply, but it does not. Another trade union organization has started a dock strike. Despite existing collective agreements and peace obligations, there are now fighting measures on the ground. The effects are great for the principles of the Swedish labour market, for the port in question and ultimately for Swedish companies. We see examples in the newspapers – most recently it is Stora Enso who says that they are considering moving transport elsewhere. We see major environmental impacts when transport moves from rail and ship to land.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-472	Mr President, I would like to The effects of the conflict in the port are enormous and very serious. Not only does it affect the Port of Gothenburg, but it has more far-reaching consequences. It is a very large part of the crucial Swedish business sector that is currently hit very hard economically but also in relation to its customers and suppliers. I had the opportunity to meet with the West Swedish Chamber of Commerce and a large number of companies not long ago and to take part in the enormous problems that exist in this. We are in a very difficult position. The employer has signed collective agreements but is still not protected by the working peace that they have actually paid for. It is also not possible to sign another collective agreement or a hanging agreement with the other trade union organisation, which is outside LO, because this is not allowed. I follow the question very closely and take the consequences very seriously.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-476	Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats and the government are investing a great deal in giving more people the opportunity to take part in culture. Earlier in Q & A, the opportunity to take part in the Music and Culture School was highlighted. Another very important reform that has been made is that we have reintroduced free entrance into the state museums. A few weeks ago we received a report from the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis showing that visits to the museums that introduced free admission on 1 Februa ri 2016 have increased by nearly 50 percent. Those are amazing numbers. This means that more people have the opportunity to take part in our common cultural heritage. The visits of young adults and pensioners have increased most. My question to the Minister for Culture is: what further challenges does the Minister of Culture see in terms of opening up even more to those who do not take part in our joint collections? Can not least the cultural heritage bill now on the table be part of this?
i-b7e6013a640d250e-479	Mr President, I would like to As far as cultural policy is concerned in the years since we took office as a government, there has indeed been a great deal. It is, of course, amazing to be the Minister of Culture in this government. It's just like you say. We saw in the report that has come that the visits have increased with the free admission reform. But I want to say that we need to do even more, because what we also see is that there are still more groups to reach. That is why we will continue to invest in our museums, which means financing. Talking is not enough. It also takes crowns for them to grow more, receive more, lower the thresholds and contact different people in different parts of our country for them to come to our museums. We should also ensure that we have a cultural policy throughout the country. Many of our state museums are located in Stockholm, but we want there to be free entrance to culture all over the country, and we will continue to deliver that.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-481	I thank the participating ministers and Members for this Question Time. That concludes Question Time.
i-b7e6013a640d250e-482	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Foreign Affairs Committee's proposal and the rejection of the reservations. The OSCE Parliamentary Assembly is an important place for political dialogue. The theme of the 2016 OSCE summer meeting was Trust built by dialogue. There are great tensions in the world but also in our neighbourhood, and in these times of political tension dialogue is required. In the Parliamentary Assembly, various forms of initiative to promote detente, dialogue and conflict management continue, as well as transparency and work to promote democracy and ensure that the countries that are members of the OSSE live up to the states that exist within the OSSE. There is reason to be proud of Sweden's contribution to the OSSE as a whole but also to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. We are financially one of the largest contributors to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. But Sweden and we MPs who are part of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly are also a very active group. We are, as Margareta Cederfelt mentioned earlier, diligent election observers who travel far and wide to contribute to the democratic development of countries. Over the past year, I have observed elections in Belarus, Russia and Armenia. In midsummer we are four Members who travel to Mongolia to observe the presidential elections there. It's hard work being an election observer. There are a lot of briefings and knowledge gatherings before we go out on election day. At the elections, we sometimes work almost 24 hours at a time. We are present from the opening of the polling stations until they close and when the votes count. Nowadays there are not so many irregularities in the polling stations, but there is a lot going on before. Many media are censored, and political parties often do not speak. Most recently, in Armenia, we also experienced pressure outside the polling stations. We reported that, but when all the reporters from all over the country then reported the same irregularities, we understood that it is a system. The Swedish delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly is the most active in observing elections. It is perhaps the part of the OSCE's parliamentary work that is gaining the greatest international respect and for which we are best known. Today, there is no other organisation that really meets the standard and comprehensive systematics that we have in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. As I said earlier, I am very proud of the Swedish delegation. Many Members are busy observing elections, but they are also very active in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly. Sweden has an important role in the autumn, winter and summer meetings, where political discussions take place. We fight for women's rights and LGBT people's rights. It is important when many countries want to restrict the freedoms of these people. Yesterday was a veteran's day here in Parliament. Former MPs returned for a day of political talks about the past and the future – very fine and important discussions. I met several former members of the OSCE delegation. It is both us Members today and previous generations who have built up the important activities. It is clear that the OSSE and the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly have played a very important role. In a situation where there are fewer and fewer venues for contacts and dialogue, many from countries with both frozen and ongoing conflicts are now really seeing the OSSE as the place for dialogue, and it is important to take advantage of that. To conclude, I would like to thank the Chair of the delegation, Mrs Härstedt, and the Vice-President of the delegation, Margareta Cederfelt, very much for her work. I would like to thank the whole delegation for representing the Swedish Parliament in such a fine way. And last but not least: Thank you very much to the staff at the Swedish Parliament's international office!
i-RPNmaz1NhhXf9YuhnCzHvZ	Mr President, I would like to In this report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs deals with the report by the Swedish delegation in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly on the work carried out last year. In addition to the very important work carried out by several members of the delegation, and which we have heard from previous speakers, we have participated in the annual meetings held within the framework of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. And it's not a small congregation. Parliamentarians from the 57 Member States meet three times a year, a winter meeting, a summer session and an autumn meeting. Before the summer session, which last year took place in Georgia, the honourable Member had the opportunity to table supplementary proposals, so-called supplementary items. For a supplementary proposal to be considered during the session, 20 members from four countries must support it with their signature. Each Member is also entitled to a limited number of signatures, and it is therefore necessary to choose which proposals it may wish to support. Before the session, two additional proposals were launched from the Swedish side, one of which was from me. It was about reinvigorating the Minsk agreement between Ukraine and Russia. With my supplementary proposal, I wanted to remind you that it had been over a year since the two parties in February 2015 had concluded agreements, the so-called Minsk II agreement, to end the conflict in the Donbass region of eastern Ukraine and that new circumstances were in place. These were circumstances that had been in force for a year. These circumstances included, inter alia: 中 that the resumption of the peace negotiations on Syria in March 2016 could lead to a peace element also for other conflicts and be used by the OSSE to bring the parties to the negotiating table 中 that deteriorating economic prospects in Europe but also in the rest of the world would require new peace initiatives to stimulate overall growth. With my supplementary proposal, I wanted the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly to call on the OSSE to monitor the implementation of the Minsk II Agreement and to call on the Organisation and all its Member States to use the favourable circumstances at regional, European and global level to speed up the implementation of the Minsk II Agreement with the aim of ending the conflict in eastern Ukraine and gradually building confidence between the parties. My supplementary proposal was well balanced, since on the one hand it called on Russia to cease military aid in eastern Ukraine and, on the other hand, it called on Ukraine to prevent any human rights violations committed by irregular units. I note that my supplementary proposal should be so worded that, on the basis of the discussions we have had within the Swedish OSCE delegation, it could be supported by my colleagues from the Moderates and Social Democrats. Unfortunately, none of my Swedish colleagues supported my proposal, which I can only regret – especially since when I was newly elected in the delegation, I was careful to stress the importance of supporting proposals from primarily Swedish colleagues, secondly Nordic and thirdly others. I am convinced that it was not the content of my proposal but who was behind it that decided that the Swedish support unfortunately failed. On the other hand, I received the support of colleagues from six other countries, but unfortunately a sufficient number of signatures were missing overall. Those who supported my proposal were both socialist and conservative and liberal Members, which testifies to the fact that the proposal was well balanced. I hope that we, within the Swedish delegation, can continue to support each other in the same way as the principle that was stated when I was new, but which is obviously not used by myself. It remains to be seen in the run-up to this summer session, where I put forward an additional proposal on the importance of the OSCE Member States being at the forefront in developing new ways of observing elections using new voting techniques and of the Member States taking part in the development of the new technologies. It is as uncontroversial as it is urgent. I therefore hope for sufficient support this time. But on this I will return in connection with next year's report. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to thank the other colleagues in the Swedish delegation. I think we have good cooperation and a good climate for cooperation. I would also like to thank the officials involved in the work of the delegation.
i-NLi1b3ETzxZAqYk6uwrYdQ	Mr President, I would like to The 53 member states of the OSCE constitute the world's largest regional security organisation, from the United States and Canada to Russia, Kazakhstan and Mongolia to the east. After the fall of the Iron Curtain, the prospects for good and peaceful cooperation between all its former comrades looked better than ever before. The OSSE would be the institution that would ensure a common agenda for how we would rebuild confidence and confidence in the seas and the sound, how we would catch up on previous warning signals and jointly deal with risks and conflicts. The OSSE also became a regional body at the UN and celebrated its 25-year cooperation in 2016. At the same time, unfortunately, today's commitment seems to be cooler – this at the same time as relations between countries such as Russia, Turkey, the EU countries and the US are more complex than in many decades. Human rights are being challenged, freedom of expression is being suffocated, the space of civil society is shrinking and the concept of democracy is being stretched and watered down in more and more places around us. But, my friends, it is when cooperation is at its most difficult that the commitment to it is also at its most important. It is important that we continue to support the OSCE's activities with its conflict prevention work, good field presence and a wide range of institutions. It is important for the organisation's efforts to promote democracy, human rights, freedom of expression and the rule of law. Mr President, I would like to Overall, Sweden is one of the OSCE's largest voluntary donors, and it is gratifying that the Swedish delegation, where MP is not included but several other parties do, has been noted in particular in the organisation for participating in all the election observations that have been carried out during the period. Sweden has been one of the largest contributors, both financially and in terms of staff, to the OSCE's efforts in Ukraine. Mr President, I would like to Naturally, the OSCE's focus in recent years has been on Russia's aggression. We must continue to condemn Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and its warfare in eastern Ukraine and call on Russia to respect the international security regime. All countries have the right to decide over their own territory and which countries they want to interact with, and no countries have the right to occupy other countries' land. The international security regime must always be respected. For our Baltic neighbours, Sweden's strategic choices play a crucial role in safety – both the actual and the perceived – in the immediate area, especially in the Baltic Sea. That is why it is also crucial that we continue to protect these relations between countries and that, despite all the difficulties, the OSSE continues the important work that needs to be done for security and community throughout the North Calott. I support the proposal in the committee's report and reject the motions.
