i-42065b468541d352-4	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me why I and the government want to increase the subsidies for solar cells even though the market is already moving in the right direction. He has also asked whether I and the government believe that climate instruments should be cost-effective and technology-neutral. The background to the question is that in the autumn budget the government presented an increase in financial support for solar cells of SEK 525 million per year in 2018 and 2019 and an increase of SEK 915 million in 2020. In the autumn change budget there is also a proposal that an additional SEK 203 million will be added in 2017. Johan Hultberg and I agree that it is gratifying that solar energy is increasing in Sweden and around the world. Interest in investing in solar cells remains high, and in 2016 approximately 75 megawatts were installed in Sweden. Although investments in solar cells are steadily increasing, solar electricity production is still marginal compared to total electricity production in Sweden. Currently, a number of changes are underway in the energy system, both here in Sweden and globally. At the same time, Sweden and the Swedish economy are in a position of strength. That is why we choose to use part of the greater budgetary space to strengthen the transition of the energy sector. Solar cell support was introduced by the previous government in 2009, and SEK 100 million was allocated for the first year. The following three years the annual budget was about SEK 61 million. In the first year, 421 applications were received and 81 were granted. Thus, from the very beginning, there was a queue that has continued to grow. As the government now increases the support for solar cells, we will manage the queue that exists for solar support, and more will have access to it. The design of the aid and the application procedure will be reviewed with a view to simplifying it. The purpose of the aid is, as with the introduction, to increase the use of photovoltaic systems and the number of operators managing such systems in Sweden and to reduce system costs. The government wants targeted support to promote technologies that are not yet competitive enough to stand on their own feet. The Energy Commission also presented in its final report that the expansion of solar electricity production has the highest production cost for renewable electricity. In the longer term, when the market is ripe, the aid will be phased out in line with the previous aid for wind power. Expanding the supply of renewable energy can contribute to low environmental impacts and electricity at competitive prices. The electricity certification system is the government's main instrument for increasing the share of renewable electricity. It is a cost-effective and technology-neutral instrument for this purpose. The extension and extension of the electricity certification system endorsed by the Riksdag in June 2017 is an important step towards reaching the target of 100 per cent renewable electricity generation by the Energy Commission by 2040.
i-42065b468541d352-11	Madam President, I would like I and the Minister fully agree that sun is something absolutely brilliant. It is great that we get more solar energy, that more people want to become their own electricity producers and that we support the expansion of small-scale electricity production. I believe that this is done mainly through good conditions in the form of sensible tax conditions. Here the government's unfortunate solar treasure was very problematic. The government says it wants to support the expansion of renewable energy but introduced an unjustified tax on solar energy. It has now been abandoned and a tax reduction has been implemented. The solar cell support I'm moderately very critical of. It is true that it was the alliance government that introduced it, and there was a reason for it: it is important to support new technologies and the introduction and development of such technologies. But somewhere in politics, we have to decide when it is time to start degressing and phasing out aid. We have seen a positive development in solar cells. The prices have completely plummeted. We see large-scale production growing in more and more countries. I was in Morocco the other week and studied their ambitious investments in large-scale solar energy. We also see small-scale production growing stronger, including in northern Europe, not least in Germany. But now that we have seen that the prices of solar cells have fallen sharply – they are today a quarter of what they were when the aid was introduced in 2009 – the government does not choose to scale down the support, but to increase it. There has been a subsidy of 20 %, and now it is to be increased to 30 %. This is a very strange logic for me. Does the Minister mean that the competitiveness of solar cells has deteriorated over the past year, when prices have fallen? Is this the reason for an increase in the contribution? If you want gender to decrease, is it wise to increase support so that it becomes even more attractive to seek it? I think it sends an unfortunate signal to the market that politics believes that this is a technology that needs more subsidies and support. I firmly believe that it is possible for solar energy, as for other renewable energies, to stand on its own feet in the long term. Therefore, I think that the government should rather have put forward a clear plan for phasing out aid and phasing it out. Previously, the last year of support was 2019. Now the government announces that the aid will be increased significantly this year, and then the substantial increase of SEK 525 million per year from 2018. There is also support in the budget or the plan for 2020, which has not existed in the past. So there will also be an extension in time. Madam President, I would like I would also like to ask the Minister what figure actually applies. The budget bill shows that the support for solar cells for 2020 is 965 million, but the Minister said here in his response that it is 915 million that applies for 2020. So I'm a little bit curious about what's going on. Madam President, I would like To put some specific questions to the Minister in general: industry calls for simplified rules, not increased subsidies. Why does the Minister not answer about this instead? In what way is the 31⁄2 billion that the government is now proposing in support of solar cells an effective way to reduce Swedish climate emissions? I asked this question in my interpellation, and I have still not received an answer to it.
i-42065b468541d352-20	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that in this House – Moderates, Social Democrats, the whole House – we can agree on what Johan Hultberg began by saying, namely that sun is absolutely brilliant. It is especially during Swedish autumns a common perception in this sun-poor country. Johan Hultberg asks relevant questions. Over a longer period, not only from 2009 but over the last 40 years, the cost of solar electricity and solar cells has fallen by 99%. This, of course, is an impressive development for technology, which we are all happy to see. It is a clean technology, and it has proved to be much more flexible than many other ways of producing electricity. It is, of course, an area in which we look to the future with confidence. Nor is it impossible, Madam President, that, by extension, solar energy will be the main source of electricity in households around the world. Solar cells combined with any form of storage are difficult to beat as a source of electricity. Although we see that this is becoming a reality in many sun-rich parts of the world – Morocco was mentioned as an example – this is not the case in Sweden. Since we have a lot of solar radiation concentrated in the summer months, the cost per kilowatt hour of solar electricity in Sweden is still significantly higher than for other electricity generation, that is, significantly higher than the electricity prices that are usually 20–30 øre per kilowatt hour. As a result, there is still a need for support. Without the aid, there is a great risk that this would not be the very strong increase, at least in terms of the percentage. As a share of our electricity production, it is still a marginal phenomenon. We can still agree on that. I am asked why the government has increased its support. It's very simple. When the government took over in 2014, there was a queue of 4,000 people. There were 4 000 people who had reported their interest to the Swedish Energy Agency and to the county administrative boards in order to take part in the aid that was introduced under the alliance government in 2009. But there was no money. It is strange, Madam President, that I am accused by a moderate Member of Parliament of paying the bill that was left behind. That's exactly what's happening. It can be equated to going to a restaurant, being generous and inviting, but then not taking the bill. That's how it was. This government has in every budget since we took office increased the support. We have wanted to pick up the queues and ensure that the promise made to the Swedish people, under the previous government and under the current government, is also fulfilled. Happily, the interest increases. I do not think it is a negative thing, but it is a good thing. Why, then, have we returned to an increased share of aid from 20% to 30%? Yes, it's very simple. We wanted a small amount of money to go as far as possible, and we wanted to graze the queue left behind and built on. Now aid is being increased strongly, and then we can return to 30%. It is already a halve from the level of the previous bourgeois government.
i-42065b468541d352-29	Madam President, I would like It is welcome to try to work out the queues that have been in the system. I have previously asked questions and debated with the Minister about the queues. Now the government is taking active measures to prolong gender. That is exactly what will result from an increased subsidy. More and more people find it nice that the state pays a large part of an investment that would probably have been economically justified in the short term. I myself have calculated to install solar cells on my own roof at home, and I have noted that in a little while it is a brilliant investment. It is very strange that the government is doing this escalation, and it goes completely contrary to what the industry itself wants. If you want to support an industry, it is reasonable to listen a little to what it has to say and what views are being expressed. The day after the Minister presented the grand effort to increase the subsidy to solar cells, the industry said that it welcomed the government's desire to simplify the system, but rather wanted to see a degression and phasing out of the aid, for example, that it would be easier to use the ROT deduction. It's very strange. A clear dividing line, Madam President, between me and the Minister, between the Moderates and the Social Democrats, between the Alliance and the government, is the view of effectiveness. It is not enough to have good intentions in politics. I know the minister and the government want the initiative well. The question is whether 31⁄2 billion is well spent money. Is that how we best reduce Swedish climate emissions? No, I don't think so. Swedish electricity production is already almost free of fossil emissions. It is, of course, another situation in countries such as Germany, Poland, Morocco – virtually any country – which has a great dependence on fossil energy, namely gas, oil and coal. Sweden has climate-smart nuclear power combined with hydropower, well-developed wind power, a hugely well-developed bioenergy power and the green gold in the form of forest. Sweden therefore does not have the same need to support the expansion of renewable energy from a climate perspective. I believe in solar energy. It can stand on its own feet. I regret that, instead of saying that 2019 would be the last year of PV support, the government has now announced that the aid will be increased in percent and over time. There is a fall in prices, but the government responds with increased subsidies. Madam President, I would like It is not responsible economic policy. Nor is it responsible energy or climate policy. Rather, we need to clean up energy policy and stick to the broad agreements that have been made on supporting renewable energy with electricity certification systems, long-term good conditions in the form of clear tax rulings, good rules for environmental testing and so on. They will play the greatest role in the long term.
i-42065b468541d352-37	Madam President, I would like We can agree that it is important to pursue a responsible economic policy. That is the basis for much of what we do to keep our society together and to invest for the future. Investing in solar cells is really an investment for the future. As an investment in electricity generation here and now, solar cells make up a tiny, disappearing part. We are talking about some per mille of Swedish electricity production. Despite the positive development globally and also in Sweden, solar cells are by far the most expensive way to produce electricity in our country – thus new electricity generation. That is why support is still needed. Madam President, I would like It feels strange to be lectured by a moderate representative about order in public finances. The Alliance government left a queue of 4,000 people and set aside 60 million, which was not at all enough, with a significantly higher subsidy rate than today. This, combined with increased interest among the Swedish people, has created the queues – which is basically positive. Madam President, I would like Add that in the same budget as SEK 60 million was allocated to 4,000 people, there was a government deficit of SEK 60 billion. It was because of all the tax cuts carried out in those years. Then it feels strange that when we are in government, with large surpluses every year we have ruled, be accused of being economic frivola. It's not like that. There are surpluses, and there is order and order in public finances. It will benefit the entire Swedish people. We will strengthen the cohesion of our society by investing in tax cuts for pensioners, increasing child benefits and more, and investing in the future. It is in this light that you will see the increased support for solar cells. No one believes that this can basically cope with electricity supply here and now. Johan Hultberg knows very well that Sweden today has a large surplus of electricity that is exported, precisely thanks to nuclear power, hydropower, bioenergy and increasingly wind power in the system. According to the energy agreement that has been concluded across the block border – the Moderates, Centers, KD, the Environmental Party and the Social Democrats – Sweden aims to be a net exporter of electricity in the future. There are great conditions for that. Yeah, we're investing in solar cells. It is something extremely good, I think, for the future. Yes, we support this today because it still does not make it on a market-based basis. It refers to Swedish Solar Energy and says that they want to abolish the aid. Yes, it was a discussion about whether to have deductions or, in this case, investment aid. But it is aid whether it is a deduction or, for that matter, an investment aid. Yes, Swedish Solar Energy argues, just like Johan Hultberg, that this should eventually be abolished. But so do I. I don't see any eternal subsidies in front of me – on the contrary. I believe that solar energy will be able to cope on its own merits. I am not as optimistic as Johan Hultberg and do not believe that this will happen in 2019 and 2020. But it is clear that this is going to happen with this amazing development, and then there is no reason whatsoever to support this with any subsidies. We will get there, and when we are there we will have a complete change in electricity systems in most of the world. I believe that this will be the main source of electricity for households, perhaps in combination with some form of storage.
i-42065b468541d352-46	Madam President, I would like Let me start where we agree, believing that long-term and global solar energy will play an absolutely crucial role in our energy supply and will also help us actually manage to meet the climate challenge and significantly reduce global emissions. If I remember correctly, solar radiation for six seconds is enough to meet our need for energy on Earth. We just have to, so to speak, be better at harvesting the energy. There we see rapid technological development, and it needs the policy to support in part. I think it is good that there are appropriations in the Government's budget for research and technological development in this area, among other things. But I am sceptical about the very wide-ranging subsidies. The Minister now chose in his speech to broaden the debate so that it became a little more general policy. I can only say that it is not just me and the Moderates who are criticising the government for presenting a proper election pig budget, but each and every other independent reviewer does so. The Institute of Economics and so on think that the government is neglecting the boom that we are currently in. You don't fill the barns enough, you give this kind of support to one and the other. Most flagrant, I think, is, for example, the support for electric bicycles. SEK 350 million per year will go to subsidise electric bicycles. It is a market that is also booming and which increased by 50 per cent last year. This is to be supported by the government from a climate perspective without having any idea of how large emission reductions it should give. I asked how large emission reductions the government estimates these subsidies will give. I don't get an answer to that question. I feel that the government is not really aware of the results of the efforts it wants to make. If you want to work away from gender, I think you should scale down the support levels and set a clear date for when this support system should be phased out. I regret that the government rather chooses to try to win votes by increasing subsidies rather than giving long-term answers.
i-42065b468541d352-51	Madam President, I would like We have heard the question before: why invest in solar cells when we already have a low-carbon electricity sector? That question could almost be put to the previous government and to the Moderates. That was when this support was set up, and then our energy system was almost identical to what we have today – nuclear, hydroelectric, wind, bioenergy and so on. It does not, therefore, hold up as an argument. Why do we do what we do? You can look at the government budget. We have a surplus in public finances of SEK 85 billion. With half of it, we'll pay off on the national debt. It's responsible. It's good for the future. Half of us use it to strengthen the cohesion of our country. Pensioners have for a long time, since the bourgeois government, a completely different tax rate from what we have. Why should they not be entitled to a proper tax reduction? Families with children have not seen any increase in child benefit for a long time. Why is it wrong to invest for the future in a more renewable energy sector, in this case solar cells? I cannot see that it would be wrong – quite the opposite. I believe – I understand that Johan Hultberg thinks so too – that this is rather the future. Then it is important that we are present right from the start. That is why this aid was established in 2009. That is why this government in every budget has increased that support. Of course, when solar cells can also stand on their own feet in Sweden, there will be no reason whatsoever for the public to subsidise them. We're not there yet. I hope and believe – I also believe that Johan Hultberg believes – that we will get there. If it then happens in 2021, 2023 or 2025, I am not a person to be able to answer.
i-42065b468541d352-55	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked the Minister of Finance how she and the Government intend to meet the increased welfare costs that Lotta Finstorp believes a profit cap in welfare would bring. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The question is prompted by the Government's announcement that it intends to submit a proposal for a limitation of profits in schools and care to the Riksdag. The Government will continue to take into account the comments received and present a proposal that will continue to give freedom of choice, but at the same time increase the amount of tax revenue intended for welfare. The healthcare sector will not be covered by the proposal but will be further examined. The reason why the government intends to move forward with the proposal is simple: Profit as an incentive does not belong in the welfare sector. The current regulation aims to increase public resources to welfare. It will mean more and not less resources in the activities. I believe that it is reasonable to demand that private actors providing tax-funded welfare services be able to demonstrate that public funds are used in the business and thus benefit children, pupils and users. At the same time as the prize hunt is to be stopped, we will safeguard freedom of choice and diversity in welfare. The government has made it clear that individual actors will continue to be able to operate in welfare. Those who carry out serious welfare activities and who regularly reinvest in the business will be able to operate in the future. I therefore do not share the view that private actors will disappear to the extent that Lotta Finstorp means. Should some owners and operators choose to leave the sector during a transitional phase, it could entail administrative costs for the municipalities and county councils responsible for ensuring that the activities are carried out. However, private operators can already go bankrupt, lose their licence or opt out of business. Municipalities should therefore always be prepared to assume their statutory responsibilities to provide services to all citizens if operators disappear. However, since the activities carried out by private operators and individual managers of independent schools are already funded by municipalities and county councils, the government does not see that this risks leading to higher welfare costs for municipalities. There is no clear link between municipal efficiency and the proportion of welfare services provided by municipalities. This shows, among other things, the ESO report More than luck in structure. Therefore, although some operators choose to leave the sector, there is no reason to believe that costs will increase in the longer term.
i-42065b468541d352-63	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Swedish welfare must be characterised by high quality, good accessibility and great freedom of choice regardless of whether the business is publicly driven or independent driven. We who live in Sweden have been used to choosing for a long time. We are used to choosing the children's school, choosing who will take care of our old parents as well as choosing the care provider. Freedom of choice is a central part of Swedish welfare for those who are parents, students, users or patients, but also for those who work in welfare and who today have the opportunity to choose employers. Freedom of choice for real only comes when you have several options to choose from, and that is when the development is driven forward for both public and independent activities. The challenges of prosperity today and tomorrow are enormous. Sweden's population is increasing radically, with an hourglass structure, where we have many children in the bottom, few to support and older people growing in numbers. The demographic challenge is huge. Quality is the key word for both those who receive a welfare service and those who do a welfare work. Is the quality of public-run activities better than private-run activities? Is the response better? Are students' results worse in independent activities? There are a number of studies that show that the quality of private-run welfare is as good as or better than that of the public sector. In addition, competition has led to an increase in quality in both public and independent activities. Comparing with each other is a known factor in improving quality, and it gives people a positive exchange. The main challenge of welfare is not that some schools or health centres succeed better than others, but that there are those who are not good enough. That is the challenge of welfare. The threat to good quality in welfare is not to profit; the problem is that there are so many who go with loss. Not least public shows red numbers. At this point, the government, together with the Left Party, chooses to exult on the proposals of the Welfare Investigation, which wants to limit companies' right to profit. The proposals will make it difficult for private actors to offer people school, care and care. The investigation proposes restrictions on companies' right to profit. For my part, this is the thought of the former Soviet Union. Has the Minister ever started and run a business, and if so, did it just to go plus minus zero? I find that very hard to believe. Few start companies with the idea of just achieving balance in the future. If you are not allowed to make a profit, you cannot invest. Actually, the headline of my interpellation is wrong. It is not really about profit ceilings but about a strangled operating margin, as the National Association of Free Schools so rightly says. All schools that are currently licensed must accept the strangled operating margin if this becomes a reality. Those who are licensed today will then have to think about whether to continue and pursue their activities, because they will not be able to make the investments they want to make forward. In the next speech, I will proceed with the reply that I have received from the Minister and which I find very interesting. When I look at the statistics I do not understand how the municipalities will manage all the students who will come to the municipal activities.
i-42065b468541d352-72	Madam President, I would like This issue is not primarily about quality, although it is also an interesting discussion, but about how the resources of welfare are to be used. Of course, there may be great teachers in schools run by venture capital companies, but it is because the teacher is good and not because it is a venture capital company that runs the business and makes a huge profit. It is reasonable that the tax money should be used for what it is intended for, namely welfare. This does not stop private activity either. On the contrary, it can open up to smaller companies which today find it very difficult to compete with the large venture capital companies. This applies both to the right of establishment and to public procurement. This therefore opens the door to alternatives that do not have a profit interest as their sole purpose. In my opinion, short-term profits do not belong in welfare, but it must be a long-term ambition to run the business well. What we can see today is the problem of welfare, not that there are too few venture capital companies in the welfare sector, but that there is a shortage of resources. It is therefore very gratifying that the government is now providing resources – billions – to welfare, which is very much needed. But there is also a shortage of staff. We can see a shortage of teachers, nurses, nurses and so on, and we have now started training courses. I think it is important: we need to have many training places, and we need to provide resources for welfare and also ensure that welfare staff have good working conditions. They cannot have that without resources, so, on the contrary, when you ensure that more of the resources go to welfare rather than to billions of profits for giant companies, it can improve the situation. I do not see this problem at all and, as the Minister points out, these companies can already go bankrupt and leave costs and work to the municipalities. If it were a horror scenario to limit the benefits of welfare, then one might ask what it is like in other countries that do not have our school system. We are the only country in the world where venture capital companies can so freely run school activities and make profits on it. It's not in any other country. Even Chile, which previously had our system, has changed the system because it did not work. One might ask: now that the other countries have a different system with more control over where tax money should go, is there a shortage of schools in all the countries of the world, because this system is necessary? I don't think so. Of course, it is possible to adapt to the system, and if you have enough staff, for example enough trained teachers, it is perfectly possible both for the municipalities themselves to run schools and for smaller operators, not least the idea-driven sector, to run schools. It is, of course, the staff who are the most important resource in welfare and not that it should be completely free for venture capitalists. The proposal that exists, of course, must be prepared. It's not finished yet. There may of course be changes along the way, but the focus is clear. What is interesting about the proposal is that it does not mean a ban; it means that the incentive, i.e. the driving force for running the business, must not only be profit. Of course you should be able to make surpluses, but it should not be these huge over-profits. Then the rogue players will automatically be eliminated, those who only have a short-term profit interest. Those who have other interests are thus more able to grow in this system.
i-42065b468541d352-82	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the posts, Lotta Finstorp and Hillevi Larsson! Let me remind you a Lotta Finstorp of the moderate party leader's words this week about the need for a fair tone of conversation, a factual debate in Swedish politics and an adult conversation about the future challenges of politics in our country. Lotta Finstorp compared the proposals of the Welfare Investigation with Soviet Communism in her speech. It is not part of an adult dialogue on the challenges of welfare in our country, Madam President. The proposal proposed by the Welfare Survey is a more market-liberal proposal than the models applied to the publicly funded school in Denmark, Norway, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Spain – all the countries of the European Union. Madam President, I would like There is no country other than Sweden in the European Union that allows free withdrawals in the publicly funded school. Madam President, I would like There is no country in the European Union except Sweden that lets commercial interests into the publicly funded school and restricts the scope for the professions in the school – the teachers who are going to do the job. Then comes a proposal that seriously tries to deal with the contradictions that may arise between efficient use of resources, quality work and profit incentives in the part of the economy that even the Moderates admit is not a market but concerns our public resources, the resource use of our tax funds. Then Lotta Finstorp in her speech calls the proposal Soviet Communism. We cannot do this in the Swedish Parliament. We have a duty, Madam President, towards all our citizens to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent effectively and for what it is intended. Madam President, I would like It's not my money. It is not Hillevi Larsson's or Lotta Finstorp's money we are talking about. This is taxpayers' money that we are forced to take into the public sector to ensure that we can finance Swedish school and Swedish welfare. Over the past few decades, we have and have had a situation where resources are leaking from the business. The question answered here concerns in part what can happen if businesses go bankrupt. Let me remind Lotta Finstorp that there was a major business that went bankrupt, namely the JB scandal when John Bauergymnasiet went bankrupt. There were 10,000 students standing outside and not coming into their school. This bankruptcy was preceded by large-scale profit payments. Do we not politicians have a responsibility and a duty to actually ensure that taxpayers' money is spent in a sound way? Don't we politicians have the obligation to actually discuss the shortcomings that exist in our systems, in Swedish welfare and school, and pragmatically, based on research and knowledge, to come up with solutions to these problems? Is it right to try to limit an honest debate on how we should work to give our nurses and teachers the right conditions in Swedish school and welfare? Madam President, I would like I am convinced that we need an honest and adult conversation in Swedish politics. I am prepared to critically examine all the proposals that we are making. I am prepared to see negative consequences of our ideas, but then there must also be a counterpart who takes the challenges of Swedish politics seriously and actually also represents an adult conversation in this House.
i-42065b468541d352-94	Madam President, I would like It was an interesting speech from the Minister. I fully understand that this is an issue that is pressing the Minister. What I wanted to continue with is that the proposal of the Welfare Investigation is not only a question of the individual's right to choose welfare drivers, but also very much a threat to all the companies and employees involved. More than one in five employees in the welfare sector work in private forms of operation, so there is a great deal of concern out there. Just look at the signals. I am sure there were many of us who saw when the Minister in the television box appealed to the Swedish Democrats to stand up for this proposal. I understand the Minister is under a lot of pressure. No one is better than me at having adult conversations in this Chamber. In the Minister's answer, there is much I wonder about. Among other things, it says, "I do not share the view that private actors will disappear to the extent that Lotta Finstorp means. But if you look at what is said, for example, by business associations, by the Free Schools Association and in all the referrals that are worried and upset, we see that they are just making the assessment that a lot of companies will disappear. Furthermore, it says that if some owners and actors were to disappear due to lower profitability, it would only entail administrative costs for the municipalities that are to take over all these pupils and preschool children – we stick to the school sector, because in the area of health care, you have given an extra mandate to review it. But the students in municipal activities are not free in any way. It is not just an administration, it is an activity that these students should enter, and it will of course cost the municipalities. There I hope that the government will analyse what this will cost the municipalities. The municipalities always need to be prepared to receive students, for example from the bankruptcy that the Minister mentioned. Yes, that is the case, but in this case it is not a matter of bankruptcy but of many thousands of students going into municipal activities. Hillevi Larsson said that it will be the rogues that disappear. You can look at the opinion of business organisations on the proposal. The proposal is, of course, rather rude to companies, because it can actually be completely different companies that disappear than those that are rogue. I get the impression that you think all these companies are rogue. It's wrong to black out an entire industry in this way. I looked at the referrals to see how many students may have to go to municipal schools, which they may never have attended before. The National Associations of Free Schools have looked at this. How will municipalities, while maintaining quality, be able to receive these pupils? Many municipalities have more than 70 per cent of preschool children in independent activities. I have looked at some municipalities in my own county. I myself live in the municipality of S ‐ controlled Flen, where we have 26.4% of our primary school students in independent schools. In S-controlled Oxelösund, more than 40 per cent of upper secondary school pupils in free schools in other municipalities go. How will municipalities manage to bring these pupils home if the free school companies are closed down?
i-42065b468541d352-102	Madam President, I would like This proposal is, of course, about a cap on profits, a limit on profits. This does not mean that you cannot make any profit at all, but you limit it. It is not reasonable, as it has been, that profit margins, i.e. the possibility of making profits, have been higher in the public sector, in the welfare sector, than in private activities. It has even been the case that venture capital companies have gone from purely private activities to welfare activities because they can make greater profits there. It's going to be the upside-down world, because it's our tax money that's paying for this. If you are completely private, you do what you want in the corporate world. But when it's paid for by tax money, you still have to have some rules to relate to. No one is forcing them to operate in welfare, but if they do, we must still ensure that the tax money goes to what they were intended for. The cases where the short-term interest in profit is the only driving force – where there is quarterly capitalism – have, for me, an unserious feature. The risk is that the losers will be well-being. Not least, it affects students at school if it suddenly goes bankrupt, from one day to another. That's what I think the rogues are being cleared out. Those who remain are those who do not have this short-term profit interest but also a serious interest in operating. These are the smaller players, who today find it difficult to compete with the large ones. It paints a horror scenario that everything is going to collapse because of this. But Chile has left its school system, and I have not heard anything about the collapse of their school system. Of course, our system will not collapse either. We also have to ask ourselves what it all costs today, in the form of billions of dollars, where the money runs out. There have even been times when they ran out to tax havens. We have to ask ourselves this question.
i-42065b468541d352-108	Madam President, I would like Let me first regret that Lotta Finstorp, in her second speech, also departs from the principles which Ulf Kristersson has stated should guide the political discussion by accusing me and my party of seeking support from the Swedish Democrats. I have been involved in my political work since 13 years of age, fighting xenophobia, racism and extremism in politics. In my role as Minister of State, I have sought a debate with the party leaders of the Swedish Democrats. Among other things, a few weeks ago we had an hour's debate in Uppsala about profits in welfare, where I openly and honestly described why we have taken the positions that we have. I also argued against the position of the Swedish Democrats on the issue of profit. It is not me or the Social Democrats who have sought support from the Swedish Democrats; it is actually Lotta Finstorp's party that has done so in recent months. Between 70 and 80 per cent of Swedes want to limit the benefits of welfare. A majority of moderate voters want to limit the benefits of welfare. A majority of bourgeois voters want to limit the profits of welfare. Why is that? Well, the voters want to ensure that their tax money is actually also used for what they are intended for. At present, we cannot ensure that taxpayers' money is spent as efficiently as possible. We have challenges in our own operations. There we need to focus on productivity gains. We need to work to relieve staff by reducing the administrative burden, which has increased in recent decades. We must also have rules on how resources are used in independent activities. Now, for example, we have seen a trend that as state grants for school activities increase, we also see actors who use some of these increased state grants to make larger profit payments. That is not really the idea of taking in tax money – increasing the profit payments for the publicly funded school. In fact, we need to work to ensure that the money that schools receive is also used to improve quality, including by improving the conditions for those who work in school by increasing teacher density and ensuring that, for example, they work with school health care, which is part of the efforts that the government is now making. Since there is no way to make demands or ensure the right use of resources, we find ourselves in the use of resources in independent activities that are sometimes in conflict with the will of politics, and that cannot be the case. There is a reason, Madam President, that we are alone in Europe and in the West to allow commercial operators to join the publicly funded school. There is a reason why right parties in Europe distance themselves from the commercialized Swedish school, a reason why Norwegian Høyre, Danish Venstre and British Tories have chosen not to implement reforms that involve letting commercial actors into school. The reason is that when you let in the market interest and allow free profit withdrawals from the businesses, there is always someone who pays the price. In this case, it has been the teachers. It is their conditions that are deteriorating. They pay the price for large profit payments, and in the end this means that the results in Swedish schools are deteriorating. It is not possible to improve the quality of schools if we do not also ensure the right use of resources.
i-42065b468541d352-115	Madam President, I would like I lack an answer to perhaps the most important question in this interpellation debate, which is how the municipalities are going to meet the commitment and make room to teach all children who are likely to lose the free activities where they are today. I wonder what the government's analysis looks like – how the municipalities will manage it and what money needs to be made available for it to work. When I read a large number of referrals to the final report, I could see that Norrköping Municipality, a large S-controlled municipality, is against this and thinks it is wrong. The municipality of Trosa, a small alliance-led municipality, believes that it will be a great challenge to do this – and they still have a small percentage of children and young people who go into independent activities. Statskontoret is very challenging. Then you can look at it from an entrepreneurial perspective. Sweden has a very low proportion of women in business. If you look at those who currently run healthcare, school and care companies, you see an over-representation of women in senior positions. Isn't this a little bad with a feminist government, when we're trying to get more women to start and run businesses? When it comes to ensuring quality and good procurement, the Alliance government took several steps in this, such as increased supervision, strengthened quality requirements and enhanced procurement competence. What I experience in municipalities and county councils is that one is poor at following up the agreements. Nor is it a good evaluation when the agreements have expired. The threat to good quality in welfare is not profits that are then invested. It is the loss-making activities that are the threat. And where's the line? Is it at the craftsman who builds and helps in a public-run kindergarten? Is he also going to get a regulation of his profit?
i-42065b468541d352-120	Madam President, I would like In the last speech it became clear that we have a great need to discuss the subject matter. Lotta Finstorp mentioned the various measures taken by the previous government, including in the area of procurement. But the fact is that school activities are not procured. Thus, those who finance school activities, the municipalities, do not have the opportunity to impose requirements on independent actors. We have another model of freedom of establishment and school money. All costs are already covered by public money, with tax, through school money. The question is how to ensure that this money is actually used for what it is intended for. Local authorities do not have the right tools there today. In fact, they do not have the tools to decide on the use of resources by the independent actors – despite the fact that it is public money, tax money, and even though it is public activity. We even have school duty, so we even have an obligation to have children go to school. But we do not really have the tools to ensure that resources are actually used to improve quality and increase teacher density. That is why we are now having this debate. That is why we are being criticised by the citizens against this system. That's why seven out of ten want to limit profits in welfare. That is why in politics we also have the obligation, Madam President, to sit down and have an adult conversation where we actually see what there are shortcomings in our model. I cannot say today that all the proposals put forward by the Welfare Committee are perfect. There are shortcomings in those proposals, just as there are shortcomings in the order that we have today. What we need to do now is to find solutions, based on the consultation responses we have received and on the popular will to limit the benefits of welfare, that will allow resources to be used for quality increases. Then compromises will be required. It will require responsibility from the right and left. There will also be a need for compromises in this House.
i-42065b468541d352-124	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to ensure a well-functioning postal service. I would like to stress that it is very important for the government that there is a high quality postal service throughout the country that is cost-effective and as much as possible meets the needs of households and businesses. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, PTS, is appointed by the Government to supervise the postal sector. The agency has previously conducted a close dialogue with all postal operators, including Postnord AB, on quality problems. It is the task of the supervisory authority, not the government, to verify that Postnord AB meets the requirements of the postal regulations. PTS takes the situation seriously and has increased its supervisory efforts with, among other things, more physical supervisory visits, closer dialogue and requirements for and follow-up of local action plans. PTS may also notify the injunctions necessary for compliance with the Postal Act and regulations or permit conditions issued under the Act. The order may be accompanied by a penalty payment. I have full confidence in PTS's supervision in the postal sector and continue to follow the agency's work closely. But I also want to strengthen PTS's ability to carry out its mission by providing new tools to work with to deal with supervisory issues. The Government decided on 12 October 2017 to amend the Postal Regulation in order to adapt the universal postal service. The measure will facilitate the proper functioning of postal services throughout the country. It increases the quality requirement for standard postage letters so that at least 95% of domestic letters will arrive on time, regardless of where in the country the letters have been submitted. At the same time, the requirement changes from overnight transport to two-day transport. The Government also decided to obtain the Council's opinion on a proposal for amendments to the Postal Act. In the referral to the Legislative Council, it is proposed that the Government or the authority that the Government decides should be allowed to provide regulations on how the universal postal service's requirements for the delivery of postal items are to be met. Today, the operations are largely governed by Postnord's own internal efficiency requirements and accessibility requirements in the absence of government ones. The measure makes it possible to clarify the requirements relating to the universal postal service performed by Postnord AB. The Government intends to return to the Riksdag with proposals on these issues.
i-42065b468541d352-131	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Daily we hear and read about people's anger that the mail is not working, and it seems to be the same all over the country – whatever newspaper you open and whatever Facebook page you read. Important letters don't get out. Doctor's referrals end up next door. Bills don't arrive in time. In some cases, this has led to information notes when one has not received the bill that one should have paid. It also happens that consignments are broken, and entrepreneurs are declared that the customer relationship does not work when promised deliveries do not arrive. This is just a sample of what is happening in Sweden today. Unfortunately, it is the staff who take the beating and receive all complaints. Sick leave rates are high. I heard at Radio Sörmland last week that 11 postmen were sick at the same time in Eskilstuna. People did not get their mail and had to wait for test results from the county council, for example, with great concern. They had to wait several days to get their mail. Postnord's management has expressed in interviews that it feels abandoned by responsible politicians. The reactions did not wait for the CEO and Chairman of Postnord to appeal to Minister Damberg to say something positive about the company. The government's ability to deal with this is alarming. What is the government's strategy to restore Swedish people's confidence in Postnord? It's very fast to break down trust, but building it again always takes a lot longer. The announcement of a new postal law has been postponed for a long time, but last Thursday the decision came from the government to amend the postal regulation. I think it has somehow been a straw for many – for Postnord's management and perhaps for the staff out there. As long as you get the decision in place, everything will be all right. My question to the Minister is: will this really solve all the problems that exist today? Will the work environment for employees be better again, and will people want to work at Postnord? That was also the problem in Eskilstuna last week: it was not possible to get a hold of substitutes even though unemployment is very high in Eskilstuna. But no one wanted to jump in and save the mail that didn't come out. How will Postnord regain the grounded trust that Post had previously. We said, like a letter in the mail, just like the name of the investigation. It came on time, it was like the clock and so on. But how does this trust come back again with people and employees? D a take, as I said, was short time to break down and long time to build up. Sometimes I compare with overcrowding in hospitals: You turn down resources because you see that there are medicines and treatments that make people not need to stay in hospital. But you're way too early, because the reality is completely different. It is exactly the same with mail: We believe and hope that everyone will send digitally, but that is not the reality. In addition, e-commerce has increased very much, and I as a customer expect to get my delivery within as many days as indicated when I click and place the order. It also works very badly, so everything is connected. I'm very worried about what's going to happen. What is the Minister's hope to solve the problem of trust that exists among the Swedish people?
i-42065b468541d352-142	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying a thousand thanks to the parliamentary committee, Lotta Finstorp, which has made an urgent contribution to the crisis of confidence which has unfortunately escalated over the last few years. So it has not turned around and continues to go in the wrong direction. Late and missing mail is today on every man's lips – a discussion topic you can meet in the staff room when you get to work in the morning. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency noted increased complaints about Postnord in 2015 and 2016 and also initially in 2017. These are some 6 000 complaints, most of which relate to missing mail, which has never come up at all. Complaints concern both delays and missing and damaged mail, which also does not show up. I have examples with me from Skaraborg, from the Mariestad area, Hjo and Falköping, where individuals for both shorter and longer have had enormous worries. In some localities, Postnord goes out and finds that you have concerns, which in some way would justify a lack of confidence. In other places, they try to sweep it under the carpet. We can say that it is about everything from summer bays to sick leave and staff shortages, to mention just a few things. The issue of health and safety at work should be one of the leaders of the state as one continues to run one's business. For me, it becomes very dramatic when an elderly person does not get the medicine that she might definitely have, or when an entrepreneur trying to create jobs and entrepreneurship in rural areas cannot rely on the postal service. If the whole of Sweden is to live, the Government, it is clear that postal services are an extremely important part. I believe that both the opposition and the government agree that the whole of Sweden should have entrepreneurship that works and that, as an elderly person, you should be able to rely on your drug or test response delivery, regardless of where in the country you live. For me living in rural areas, this is absolutely crucial. I believe that this is where we can continue to grow and that this is where things can happen. To be able to trust the mail is extremely important. Confidence in postal services has now been halved. In addition, it continues to go in the wrong direction; there is still great concern. The government set a timetable a year or six months ago; there must be a change and a change. Nevertheless, it continues to go in the wrong direction. Then the government will have to start thinking about its strategy. Restoring postal services and confidence in it and governing state-owned companies – all of this is on the government's collective table to take responsibility for. If you've had a strategy and it doesn't work, what should you do to restore it? Now the question is postponed and said: We change the law instead. We make sure to change the conditions so maybe confidence will rise again. But that is not the reality for the elderly or for the entrepreneur who actually needs his mail. My question is: what is the government's response to solving the concerns that have caused the crisis of confidence, in addition to changing the regulatory framework in order to perhaps erase the issue further?
i-42065b468541d352-152	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions. I would like to start by saying that I am concerned about developments in postal services. It is quite clear that in recent years we have seen a negative trend and major problems in this regard. People's concerns are shared by me and many others in politics. The underlying causes are, above all, two. One is the major change in society that is linked to digitalisation. Since 2000, the number of letters has fallen by one third. This year we send over a billion fewer letters than we did in 2000. In 2016, 2.3 billion letters were sent, and in 2000 it was around 3.5 billion. This is a huge change in society. Today, the vast majority of people use e-mails and the possibilities of digitalisation in a way that could not be done before. This, of course, affects an organisation that works with the old system. It creates new conditions. There is a need to organise in part in a different way. You have to cut costs when a large part of the revenue is lost. As mentioned here, there is a positive entry as well, and that is that the number of packages is increasing. But this does not happen to the same extent as the number of letters decreases. It is therefore difficult to maintain the same revenues when the number of letters decreases. The second major issue is organisation. The previous government made a deal with Denmark and merged the Danish and Swedish posts. It's caused quite a lot of trouble. Now there has been a dramatic change in Denmark, as just after the merger, digitalisation has been accelerated by legal requirements. It has created major problems for the company Postnord and creates significant losses in this context. Perhaps we can agree that the merger carried out by the previous government was not so successful. Now the Swedish Government, the Danish Government and Postnord are in negotiations on how to sort out this situation in order to avoid bankruptcies and multi-billion losses in the companies and try to avoid the Swedish taxpayers having to take heavy costs in this area. Now the question is how to restore trust. Part of such a change is that we must in fact be prepared to make changes to the postal law and to the rules that create the conditions for the universal service operator to manage this activity. Last Thursday we adopted a proposal which forms the basis of such a change. I will continue to talk about this in my next speech.
i-42065b468541d352-159	Madam President, I would like It is true, as the Minister says, that the number of letters has fallen by one third in recent years. But there are still a lot of letters written. Authorities send letters. What was done in Denmark was to legislate for all government posts to go digitally. It was radical. My question is whether the government is considering doing the same. I drew parallels with overcrowdings in health care. It is also about cash handling. As long as there are ATMs, people will withdraw money. I don't, but many others do. Rural entrepreneurs testify that they do not know how to get rid of the cash. Now the risk has been moved home to the small business owner in Jämtland or Norrbotten, who can't go anywhere and deposit the money. We're still sending letters. Then we must have a mail that works. We still have cash in circulation. Then there must be somewhere to put them in. We still have people who need to be in the hospital. So we should not have overcrowdings, and we must have hospital beds. This is about trust in important social functions that constantly get a thorn. It can't be great fun to be employed at Postnord given how the working environment becomes when it is rallied over the company. There are people who tell you that they don't dare tell you that they are employed in the post office if they are at a dinner, because then a lot of things get started and people are upset and laughing behind their backs. This has, as it were, really gone down in the basement, and it is the government that is responsible here and now. Co-distribution is interesting. It is also mentioned in the investigation that letters and newspapers could be co-distributed. Today is not the case. This can also be seen from an environmental point of view. In the countryside, where both Cecilia Widegren and I live, the newspaper comes only in the morning, and then two different postal companies come by mail. For example, if we could co-distribute from both a temporal and an environmental point of view, fewer transport would have been needed, not only in rural areas but also in distribution centres and so on. Today, there are different times for delivery to customers. I would like the Minister to comment on how he views co-distribution. If I do not remember wrong, it is also mentioned in the investigation that one should not distribute mail in mail in multi-family houses but do as in newly produced multi-family houses where mail is distributed in mailboxes located on the ground floor. This would make it easier for the postman, who would not have to run in all the stairs. But it can also be good for older people, for example, to move and go down and pick up their newspaper and mail. My view is that predictability is important. When you put a letter in the mailbox you should know that it may take two days for this letter to arrive. According to the government's decision, if I don't remember wrong, 95% of the post is said to arrive within two days. But that should definitely be 100%. I know that there have been problems, for example, with the digital sorting in Sundsvall. If you're running in a new system, there'll be some childhood diseases, but now this should have been solved. So I have a few questions. How does the Minister view co-distribution? In Denmark, there is a legal requirement for all authorities to send their mail digitally. Is that something that the government intends to bring forward?
i-42065b468541d352-169	Madam President, I would like The starting point for the government is that four out of ten have experience that the post office is not functioning properly. The government is talking about two changing parts of this. One is digitalisation. The second is that where the conditions are changed, the organisation and structure also change, and then you have to change in order to change for the better. There are two quite natural changes that are taking place in large parts of our society in general and that should also be linked to the functioning of postal services. What I wonder at this point is why the government has not chosen to act more quickly on these challenges instead of waiting in and seeing if this confidence could still have improved. So we are now backing back two, three or four years, and it is a journey that has gone in the wrong direction. Then you have chosen to make sure that Postnord will work with a listening campaign. Now listen, and that would improve confidence. In the second part, the Government has chosen to strengthen the supervision of the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency. The third part raised by the Minister is that the deterioration of service may be the solution to get around this. I still believe that what is really the big challenge, namely that the government has at its table to steer a changing curve for a state-owned company, and must therefore look at these challenges, has not been addressed. Many times we hear this is about a work environment that is not good enough. Even people who hand out mail want to be seen and heard at work. The following question then comes back to the government table: What does the government do to ensure that the working environment for postmen is improved, so that things will work tomorrow too, and that confidence in postal services is restored?
i-42065b468541d352-178	Madam President, I would like We'll get back to what we're about to do. The Government has made a proposal to amend the Postal Regulation and also a proposal to amend the Postal Act. This will make it easier for Postnord, or anyone else who may be responsible for this in the future, to cope with the work in the new world with a reduced number of letters. This also concerns the situation regarding the merger with the Danish company. What I think is very important in this context is that we see that we have a task and a responsibility to ensure that we create the conditions for managing a good postal service throughout Sweden. Denmark has similar requirements for Denmark. In spite of this merger, we try to keep this apart, although it has caused great problems even for the Swedish part of the post office to manage this activity. A question is about co-distribution, which is facilitated when you move on to the fact that it will take two days for a letter to arrive. This means far more possibilities than in the past for Postn word and other actors to co-distribute, as this allows for a more flexible solution for receiving and leaving at other times. This has been made very clear both in the investigation initiated by the government at the beginning of its term of office, which was presented last year, and in the talks we have had with the opposition. Another measure I would like to see is the implementation of the change mentioned by Lotta Finstorp, that is to say that there are requirements for building boxes also in the cities. For those of us who live in the countryside think that we can take part in taking that cost, but we do not seem to be forced to take it into the cities. In newly built properties there are always real estate boxes, and I never hear anyone complain about it. Most people feel that it's very good. However, in the talks with the opposition before we tabled the bill, the alliance parties replied that they were not prepared to take that step. If Lotta Finstorp can get her own party to change its position on the matter, I think that would be a good thing. It would also make it easier for and create a better working environment for postmen, and the union is strongly on the same line as me – that it would be good if we got such a change. An important question to ask back is therefore what the Moderates want on this issue. I have not really heard any concrete proposal from the Moderates so far, but if Lotta Finstorp and Cecilia Widegren are on the same side as me on the issue of building boxes, it is still a step forward. Otherwise, I agree that companies must be governed, but when conditions change so that the revenue base is removed, it is also a question of us being prepared as legislators to change the conditions. It is not possible to believe that we can continue as before and say that we have to fix this with the same regulations. That is what I am doing now, and I hope we agree on that.
i-42065b468541d352-185	Madam President, I would like This is the case, Minister, that there is no proposal on Parliament's table yet. We will, of course, come back to the matter from moderate quarters and from the Alliance. I note that the Minister believes that the paper should be given after two days. If there is to be co-distribution in the decision the government has made, it will mean that you get your daily newspaper two days later. The question is, then, how this is to be done, but the Minister can reply to that later. I think what Cecilia Widegren mentioned was important, and it is about rural residents and entrepreneurs. They are the ones who become most vulnerable when postal distribution does not work. The rural entrepreneur is in despair; I have met many and made contact with many entrepreneurs. I live in Sörmland. It's not exactly an outback, but you can have a very long way to your postal distribution. When it doesn't work, entrepreneurs can lose customers because people can't trust that they get the delivery they actually ordered. This applies to both entrepreneurs and individuals who have ordered something from these companies. What I do not understand in this whole problem of trust is this: we know that consignments have been reduced by one third. How, then, could the quality of the mail and mail delivery have deteriorated so radically? That must mean that the number of employees has been turned down too quickly. I wonder how the government has run its company, because quality should not get worse because there are fewer letters to hand out. I don't understand that. They're broken mails, they're not getting through, and they're being put in the wrong mailboxes. What's the problem? As I said, we are waiting for a proposal to be put on Parliament's table.
i-42065b468541d352-190	Madam President, I would like First, we'll have to take this with the paper. We will still have five days' dividends in Sweden; there will be no difference. So you can co-distribute and have more opportunities in that it may take a little longer before a letter arrives. Co-distribution increases opportunities, and it will not be the case that the newspaper has to come after two days because, in some cases, the letters take a little longer. In many cases, the letters will arrive more quickly when we now make a higher requirement, namely 95%. Today, it is often the case for those living in rural areas that a letter may take three or four days before it arrives. Lotta Finstorp knows that, who says she lives in the countryside or at least is close to it. Another thing is that digitalisation should reach the whole of Sweden. We have announced in the budget a change from 1 megabit per second to 10 megabit per second as the basic requirement for everyone across Sweden. This should be possible with the mobile network. It will allow for a situation where everyone will have the possibility of a decent internet connection wherever they live in the country. It also allows for another money management, such as the use of Swish or other systems, which are much better than today. Lotta Finstorp asks what the problem really is. In a company where revenues are reduced – where letters and activities are reduced – costs must of course be cut. Otherwise, billions are lost, and then we end up paying for postal services in the state budget. That's the situation I'm trying to avoid.
i-42065b468541d352-194	Madam President, I would like Lotta Johnsson Fornarve has asked me about Sweden's efforts for Ali Gharavi, who is detained in Turkey. The interpellant has also asked what initiatives Sweden is taking, both as an individual country and as a member of the EU, to ensure that Turkey respects fundamental human rights and to end the persecution of the free media, the Kurdish population and oppositionists. I take very seriously the arrest of the ten human rights activists in Istanbul on 5 July. I am concerned that eight of them are still in prison, including the Swedish citizen Ali Gharavi. We have taken note of the accusations against Gharavi, and our view is clear: Ali Gharavi was in Turkey to take part in a peaceful seminar on internet freedom and human rights. Since the arrest, we have worked intensively on the case of Gharavis. We have, among other things, called Turkey's ambassador to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs on three occasions, and we are constantly raising the case of Turkish authorities on this matter, both in Ankara and in Istanbul. Our Consulate General in Istanbul visits Gharavi in prison as often as possible. Sweden's ambassador to Turkey has also visited him in prison. This is a work that will continue untiringly, and we are constantly looking at possible ways forward. It is important to remember that Gharavi is currently subject to the Turkish judicial system. Having said that, we will continue to do what we can to draw attention to the case of the Turkish authorities and work consularly to improve the prison conditions for Ali Gharavi. I share the interpellete's great concern about developments in Turkey, not least regarding mass redundancies and arrests, as well as violations of human rights, such as restrictions on freedom of expression. Free media, freedom of expression, political opposition and a well-functioning rule of law are prerequisites for a democratic society. We have stated this on a number of occasions to Urk representatives in Stockholm and Ankara and elsewhere where meetings took place. We have stressed that Turkey's action has a direct impact on Sweden's and the EU's relationship with Turkey. The government is also a driving force in highlighting Turkey's human rights violations in the context of the international fora that we consider most appropriate for these discussions and where results can be achieved. That is why the government is active mainly within the EU and the Council of Europe to seek to influence developments in Turkey in the long term. We are paying attention to the situation of opposition politicians, journalists, academics and civil society actors and are pushing for the EU Member States to continue acting together to improve respect for human rights and the rule of law in Turkey. Within the framework of Sweden's bilateral reform support, we are making efforts to increase the capacity of civil society, the media and other change actors. We also provide support to organisations that train journalists to promote, among other things, digging journalism. With regard to the situation of the Kurds, we continue to stress our concerns and push that this issue be raised within the European Union in talks at political level. Sweden also acts locally – for example, Swedish foreign authorities in Turkey monitor trials against HDP leaders as part of the diplomatic mission. Sweden continues to closely monitor developments in Turkey, and the focus of our commitment is on strengthening respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Furthermore, we intend to push for continued attention to be paid to the situation within the EU, the Council of Europe and other relevant international fora. We do not miss opportunities to inculcate our messages to Turkish authorities, both on our own and in cooperation with other EU countries.
i-42065b468541d352-205	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Foreign Minister for his reply to my interpellation. I am pleased that the Minister takes the arrest of the ten human rights activists very seriously in Istanbul on 5 July and that the Minister shares my concern that eight of them are still in prison, including the Swedish citizen Ali Gharavi. It is good that Sweden has in various ways worked on the case of Gharavis and has called Turkey's ambassador to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs on several occasions and raised the case with Turkish authorities, both in Ankara and Istanbul. It is also of great importance that our Consulate General in Istanbul and the Swedish Embassy in Turkey are involved. However, I think it would be good if the Foreign Minister could express himself even more clearly and strongly against the accusations by expressing the absurdity of the imprisonment of Ali Gharavi and other human rights activists. Sweden must make it clear that it can never ever be a crime to fight for human rights. Under the rule of Erdo中an, developments in Turkey have taken clear steps in the wrong direction, as the Minister said. Since the failed coup attempt in summer 2016, restrictions on democratic freedoms and rights have increased considerably. Since the coup, over 110 000 people have been fired or suspended from their jobs and over 50 000 have been arrested, including a large number of journalists and MEPs of the Left Party HDP. It is clear that Mr Erdo中an has used the attempted coup as an excuse for an increasingly repressive policy against his opponents. A constitutional change in spring 2017 has brought even more power to Erdo中an, and the reintroduction of the death penalty is being discussed. The attacks on human rights defenders are taking place at a time when their role in Turkey is more important than ever before. The eight human rights defenders were arrested on 5 July during a workshop in digital security and psychosocial health and are therefore still in custody. They are accused of having committed crimes in the name of a terrorist organisation, without being members, which are charges that are completely unfounded. Among those arrested are Amnesty International's boss in Turkey, Idil Eser, and Swedish Ali Gharavi. According to relatives, Ali Gharavis's condition is bad. He feels depressed and isolated. His possibilities for contact with the outside world are very limited, and he may receive only a few visits. He would also need medical attention from an English doctor. Against this background, it is good that the Swedish Consulate and the Swedish Embassy have visited him, but how often do these visits take place? I also wonder if the embassy could help bring about medical attention. Against this background, I would like to ask the Minister whether she intends to take further initiatives to ensure that Sweden, both as an individual country and as a member of the European Union, will work to ensure that Turkey releases Ali Gharavi and the other human rights defenders arrested on 5 July. Has the Minister or Prime Minister raised the issue at the highest political level in contacts with the Turkish Government, or is there any intention of doing so?
i-42065b468541d352-214	Madam President, I would like I can only agree with Lotta Johnsson Fornarve that the arrest of Ali Gharavi and the ten human rights activists this summer is very worrying. The arrests took place under the emergency laws that have been in force in Turkey since the coup attempt last year and are continuing to show alarming developments in the country. As I said in my first speech, our view is that Ali Gharavi was in Turkey to participate in a peaceful seminar on internet security. We have worked actively and intensively since the arrest. We continue to have contact with the Turkish authorities at my level and at all other levels. We also provide consular support to Ali Gharavi in prison, as often as we can and as often as we get access, to facilitate his situation there. The issues relating to health care have been an important part of this. Of course, we are doing everything we can to make things easier for Ali Gharavi, and we have told Turkey that his health situation is not good. We will continue to give him consular support and we will continue to inculcate the message to the Turkish authorities. Yesterday I attended a meeting of foreign ministers in the EU. We had a lunch discussion on Turkey and were then able to note that there are very extensive and arbitrary detentions of regime critics, opposition politicians, writers, academics and human rights activists. We also noted that it is unacceptable that there should continue to be a state of emergency. We have said this repeatedly. We also use our bilateral support to work actively. In this work we are in contact with a very broad group of actors in Turkish society. We have partners who run issues that have a bearing on human rights and the principles of the rule of law. As this space is shrinking in Turkey, we think it is very important to support this. The forms of this cooperation and the partners we shall have are kept under constant review. We conduct talks with Sida, the government and various interested partners. In addition to the EU, there are other important forums. The Council of Europe has taken an increasingly active role since the attempted coup and since the referendum on constitutional changes in April. This is welcome, because then the discussions can be held in an organisation to which Turkey is a member. This has been an advantage. The report presented by the Venice Commission, which analyses Turkey's decree laws, is also important. We believe that MEPs in the Council of Europe have done a very important job there. It is with this breadth of forums and bodies that, by continuing our commitment, we can discuss the situation in Turkey and, in the long term, reverse developments. We believe that this interaction, with both the government and the opposition and civil society, promotes democratic development. However, it is becoming more difficult and more difficult.
i-42065b468541d352-224	Madam President, I would like I think it is good that Sweden is involved in a number of different areas in relation to Ali Gharavi and the other human rights activists, as well as in the situation in Turkey at all. The Minister says that the issue has been raised at all levels – does this include ministerial and prime minister level? I would like clarification on this point. We raise the issue of the imprisoned Amnesty activists not only because a Swedish citizen is among them but also because it is particularly serious when a regime attacks human rights defenders in this way. At a time when human rights are increasingly being violated in Turkey and the scope for civil society organisations is shrinking, it is particularly important to stand up for those organisations that are fighting every day for fundamental human rights to be respected. A prosecutor in Istanbul is now demanding up to 15 years in prison for human rights activists arrested in Turkey. One of these is Swedish citizens. In a statement, Amnesty International says that these allegations are scandalous and contain no new evidence and that absurd claims against some of Turkey's most prominent human rights defenders are repeated. The only thing these people have been guilty of is believing that it is important to fight for human rights. To imprison them for this is deeply wrong and wrongful. Although we have acted and done a lot on the Swedish side, I hope that the government will keep this up, both as an individual country and through various international bodies such as the EU and the Council of Europe, and further intensify the pressure on the Turkish authorities for the unconditional release of Ali Gharavi and the other human rights activists. I also hope that it will be visible and communicated more clearly externally. In the media, I have seen nothing from the government on this case since August, so it would be welcome. Amnesty reports an increase in charges of torture and ill-treatment in police custody, partly supported by the state of emergency that eased the protection of those arrested. According to Amnesty, the routine and long arrests of journalists and human rights defenders in Turkey are tantamount to being punished without conviction. Those expressing views that differ from those of the government, particularly in relation to the situation of the Kurds, have been exposed to threats of violence and criminal persecution. All the media that criticises the government and Erdo中an are targets for the regime's repression. A clear example of how Turkey is trying to silence all opposition is that more than 3 800 organisations and foundations have been permanently shut down in Turkey. Among them are both children's rights and women's rights organisations. In this context, I think there is reason to raise the issue of the agreement that the EU has with Turkey to prevent refugees from entering Europe – this Turkey, which, in the area of human rights, is violating its own people. How can you think that country can be considered a safe country for people on the run? Is it not high time that Sweden acted in favour of the EU terminating the agreement with Turkey, which aims to prevent people fleeing to Europe? As long as the agreement remains in place, Erdo中an will use it for blackmail purposes.
i-42065b468541d352-235	Madam President, I would like Ali Gharavi is a Swedish citizen. This means that it is our job to give him consular support. Unfortunately, several EU countries have had to deal with similar cases. We have a good exchange on these issues in the European context. We are in contact at ministerial level, and not least I have had very close contact with my German colleague on their case. According to the latest information we have received, there will be a first court hearing on Wednesday 25 October. It is in itself a welcome message, so that we at least know what comes next and can plan from it. Our starting point is that Ali Gharavi should be released, and that is how we work on the case. At the same time, the important question of principle as to how we should engage in Turkey in the future is raised. That, of course, was part of the discussion that we had yesterday at European level. I feel that there are many, like me, who represent countries that have been insisting for a long time on having the EU road open to Turkey. It is becoming more difficult and more difficult to defend this for our citizens if we see that democratic development is going in the very wrong direction in Turkey. That is why we must continue to draw up a strategy for how to act towards and with Turkey. We have so far felt that it is not for us to close the door. There are no negotiations at present, but they are on ice. However, we believe that it is up to Turkey to say that they do not want to seek this path. For us, it has been important to offer that opportunity. For a number of years, there were good results in terms of reform efforts, and slowly but surely we saw a way forward. But now it is too much of repression, too much of a divided society and too much of a violation of human rights for this to be an easy debate to take. We also come back to this in the context of the European Union, and I have every sympathy for the arguments presented here. As far as the refugee agreement is concerned, the EU's support for the refugees and, first and foremost, for UN agencies, not least UNHCR, UNICEF and others working on the ground to improve conditions for refugees is being provided. Turkey broadly lives up to the agreement we have with it. It should not be rejected, but they should have a recognition that they have actually received 3 million refugees, and that is not nothing. This will also be an important discussion in the future. Now we have to look forward to the trial date. As I said, we continue to use consular access and consider it important to continue dialogue, including clear criticism. That is how the European Union and we from the Swedish side can most influence Turkey.
i-42065b468541d352-241	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. Unfortunately, I believe that Turkey is not at present susceptible to appeals, but must be very clear and speak with power with a regime such as the extremely authoritarian regime that we are seeing today in Turkey. Nevertheless, I am pleased that the issue has been raised at ministerial level, that it has been given that status. Today, over 130 journalists are in prison awaiting trial. Turkey is estimated to be the country that holds the most journalists in prison. Mayors of at least 35 cities have been deposed and in some cases arrested. These are mainly cities in eastern Turkey and mayors of the left party HDP or their sister party DBP. On the night of 4 November 2016, 12 MEPs from the left-wing party of HDP were arrested. Among the arrested were party leaders Selahattin Demirta ș and Figen Yüksekda Since the attempted coup on 15 July 2016, more than 6 000 members of the party have been arrested and 2 000 have been imprisoned. This, together with the eight imprisoned human rights activists from Amnesty International, makes the situation in Turkey alarming, to say the least. I therefore hope that Sweden will continue to intensify its efforts to ensure that the detainees, human rights activists and journalists are released as soon as possible. We in the Left Party are doing our best to exert pressure. We already have a sponsor system for parliamentarians from the Left Party of the HDP. I also hope that the government will intensify its efforts to persuade Turkey to respect fundamental human rights and to end the persecution of the free media, the Kurdish population and oppositionists. Finally, I also hope that the government will make further efforts to release Ali Gharavi and the other Amnesty human rights activists as soon as possible, in order to fight for human rights can never be a crime.
i-42065b468541d352-245	Madam President, I would like I thank Lotta Johnsson Fornarve very much, because it is important that we work tirelessly on the case of Gharavi. Of course, we will examine the possibility of insisting on attending the hearing on 25 October. We continue to be committed to Turkey. It is important for the opposition and the progressive and reformist forces in Turkey to see that there is a door open. It is also important to encourage those who fight so hard in Turkey to defend human rights, the principles of the rule of law and democracy. We will need continued engagement and dialogue in many arenas, at many levels and with a wide range of actors. There we will be active in the light of the upheavals in Turkey. It will continue to be a high priority for the government. Thank you for the debate.
i-42065b468541d352-248	Madam President, I would like Maria Malmer Stenergard has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to make it easier and cheap for the municipalities to carry out beach feeding, how I see the possibility for the state to take overall responsibility for the beach erosion issue, and which authority is currently primarily responsible for beach erosion problems and how coordination works with the other authorities concerned. The background to the questions is the problems with beach erosion that can be seen in several places in Sweden and especially for coastal municipalities. Local selfgovernment means that municipalities and county councils handle local and regional matters of general interest. The municipalities therefore have a central role to play in their plans to prevent and manage beach erosion. The municipalities are responsible for community planning and, according to PBL, are responsible for, among other things, locating new buildings on land that is suitable for the risk of accidents, flooding and erosion. Much is already being done to strengthen work on beach erosion. The role of the state is primarily to be responsible for research, coordination and knowledge transfer in support of other actors such as municipalities, industry and individuals. In this way, the work of other municipalities is both facilitated and cheap. On the question of the possible overall responsibility of the State for the problem of beach erosion and the authority which currently has the primary responsibility for the problem of beach erosion, I should like to mention in particular the State Geotechnical Institute, SGI. SGI has a national coordination responsibility for beach erosion. The responsibility is to coordinate many expert authorities, not to have all the skills themselves. SGI should, according to its instructions, contribute to reducing the risk of beach erosion. This means, among other things, that SGI assists other authorities with expert reports on beach erosion issues, develops knowledge in the area and coordinates the interests of different actors. SGI is responsible for an agency network involving nine authorities. The network shall be a contact and collaboration body and assist SGI by, among other things, identifying common issues and evaluating the need for coordination. The picture we have is that this coordination works well. Cooperation between authorities also takes place in various specific projects. As an example of SGI's knowledge-raising efforts, the work on erosion mapping and SGI developing and testing a methodology to map the vulnerability of erosion in coastal areas, along watercourses and lakes. This vulnerability mapping will serve as a basis for municipalities in their work on outline plans and detailed plans. The agency also produces a guide on nature-adapted erosion protection and participates in research projects that have bearings on beach erosion. This includes research on naturalized erosion protection in fairways as well as research on ethical aspects of rising sea levels. Sweden's geological survey, SGU, also works with beach erosion. According to its instructions, SGU is responsible for issues related to rock, soil and groundwater and works actively with both mapping and analysis of beach conditions and erosion. As an example of SGU's activities, the Skånestrand project was completed in 2016 after four years of work. Together with the municipalities concerned, SGU has carried out a survey of both land and coastal strip along Skåne's coast to produce geological information about soil species and erosion propensity. The information is available in a map viewer and provides a good basis for further work on, among other things, planning of erosion protection. The County Administrative Board, as the regional representative of the state, must also provide the knowledge base for the planning of the municipality as well as for the preparation of individual actors for, for example, government decisions on building or measures against erosion. The County Administrative Board shall also examine municipalities' detailed plans to ensure that health and safety requirements are met. I would also like to mention in particular the ongoing work on climate adaptation. The Government appointed an investigation in 2015 to review, among other things, the division of responsibilities regarding climate adaptation measures. The final report of the investigation is under preparation. There is a great risk that beach erosion may worsen with the change in the climate. During the term of office, the Government will develop a national climate adaptation strategy to strengthen the long-term work and coordination of climate adaptation.
i-42065b468541d352-262	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Sweden has a long and beautiful coast, and we should be happy and grateful for that. It is a source of recreation, tourism and important revenues. But beach erosion is becoming more common along our coasts. The coastline is constantly changing. When the sea breaks down and removes the sand from the beach, the beach shrinks, and the coastline drifts inland. For coastal municipalities, beach erosion is a serious problem. Great values are at risk of being lost. It affects individual landowners. It also affects opportunities for recreation and risks income from tourism, among other things. Skåne is hard hit, but the problems are also visible in municipalities in Blekinge, Småland and Halland, to name a few. In some places the situation is acute, as on the coast of Åhus, as the Minister well knows. The sea is eating itself further into it, and property is under threat. When the shelters are destroyed, large parts of the buildings are soon in danger of being submerged. This obviously has direct consequences for the residents, but also for water and sewage systems, for other infrastructure and for the area as a whole. There are several ways to mitigate the effects of beach erosion. Perhaps the most sustainable and environmentally friendly is beach feed, which involves laying sands taken from the sea on an eroded coastline. Sands soaked at sea are thus returned in a cycle without causing major damage or other repercussions. The method is common in the rest of Europe and North America, but it is unusual in Sweden. One explanation is that the regulatory framework for beach feed is complex and difficult. In particular, it concerns the dual environmental testing of both the environmental code and the continental shelf law, which in practice makes it impossible or severely hampers appropriate measures. The legislation is designed to ensure that different authorities and courts deal with different parts of the application. In addition, different stakeholders often make different assessments. After many and very long tours, the municipality of Ystad has been granted permission to line the beach. It has taken years, and they have suffered unnecessary costs. This is not sustainable. Management needs to be considerably simplified. Another example is Ängelholm Municipality, which wants to line the beach to protect and preserve both the beaches and the infrastructure behind the beaches. More municipalities will need to apply. But more and more of the coast is washed out into the sea while waiting for various governmental and judicial trials. Madam President, I would like We shall be careful of our nature, on land, by water and in water. That is why we need to make it easier for those who want to take responsibility. We must constantly strive to make the entire Swedish Government considerably simpler. This is the background to my interpellation. In his reply, the Minister states, among other things, that the municipalities have a great responsibility when planning for new settlements. I fully agree, but that does not solve the problems of existing settlements. This applies, for example, to the houses on Äspet which are only a dike from being washed out into the Baltic Sea. In his reply, the Minister also points to municipal self-government. The problem with that is that the municipalities do not in principle own the issue. They can take the initiative for beach feed but are then completely in the hands of an inefficient condition process.
i-42065b468541d352-276	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Beach erosion is something that has been discussed for a long time. You always get the same answer when beach erosion is discussed, and that's that SGI has the overall responsibility for the right facts lying on the table. That is good, because without these facts it is difficult to take the right action. The problem with constantly referring to SGI's investigations and results is that they are constantly changing, as time passes. When municipalities with beach erosion ask what to do, they get the answer that SGI is the authority with the overall responsibility for producing the data. But in the end, it is the municipalities that stand with black elephants in hand and ask: What should we do then? As my colleague Maria Malmer Stenergard has said before, a lot of different legislation comes in and makes it difficult for the municipalities to do what they have to do for the beaches that are vulnerable. The majority are located in the southern parts of Sve Rige : Skåne, Blekinge, Småland and Halland. They're the ones who've been hit a lot. As has already been said, we are probably in complete agreement with regard to the existing settlements. When building, remember not to place the buildings on the shoreline when there is a risk of beach erosion. But we have the existing buildings here and now, and then we have to do something. The answer is always the same: SGI has the responsibility for coordination. But, Madam President, it does not help the municipalities in that situation. They face the need to do something right now, right here and right now. They say, "What are we gonna do?" And do we have to do that? Often the legislation is problematic in this regard. Of course, there is also the cost of doing something. There are different ways to apply. However, as legislation changes in this respect, it becomes difficult for municipalities to obtain compensation. We heard earlier about Ystad's municipality, for example, which has lined the beach. It's cost them 30 million over three years. They have picked up sand, which we are grateful for allowing them to do, to make a beach feed of the beaches of Löderup's Löderup bath. In addition, Ystad Municipality will pay SEK 30 million for this. My question to the Government is: is there any possibility for municipalities to receive any state aid for this? Sometimes we talk more about injuries that have happened where nothing has been done, like race and scrambling. But beach erosion is something that goes on all the time. Can these municipalities in Skåne, Småland, Blekinge and Halland get any opportunity for financial support from the state to be able to handle the cost of trying to restore the beaches, Sweden's country, to what they have been so that the sea does not win over land?
i-42065b468541d352-284	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking you for the opportunity to discuss s s tr spirit-rosion and, not least, for the opportunity to put this in a wider context. The changes in climate will affect Sweden's long, fantastically beautiful but also very important coastline in a clear way. We at the national level need to pay more attention to these effects and what they mean to different actors. It is about municipalities but also about individuals who can end up in difficult situations. Unfortunately, this is a discussion that has been silent and still for far too many years. What needs to be done first is pretty basic things. That is why we, from the government, have said that we need to first work on a climate adaptation strategy that looks at fundamental responsibilities in climate adaptation work in Sweden. No questions should be left between chairs, but the division of responsibilities should be clear. That's the foundation. When it comes to beach erosion, there are several methods that are relevant. Beach feeding is one of these, and it is possible for municipalities to get permission for beach feeding. The environmental requirements for beach feed are very high, especially in the part about taking up sand. To this end, you must apply for authorisation under a specific legislation. However, if we theoretically said that there would have been a single piece of legislation, the requirements for careful investigation of the environmental effects of sand suction would still not have been reduced. The case mentioned here is Ystad. What has happened is that Ystad has twice gone up to the government with an application and been rejected because there were factual flaws in the data describing the environmental effects of the sand sucking. No matter what legislation is involved, the requirement that the whole thing be carefully documented must be the same. Governments of different colours rejected the application, and there is no reason to question the handling. It'll take a long time. In order to help municipalities in the future to be able to make factual assessments of the environmental impact of sand sucking, what was said here is the most important thing: accessibility to knowledge. Then the mappings that government agencies do, and have done more of in recent years, are incredibly important. The municipalities will then have basic material. They do not have to start from scratch at each survey, but there is data available. Some steps have been taken in the collection of knowledge and information, and this will greatly facilitate work in the future. The applications for the future will therefore be simpler. I would also like to point out that there are other methods than sand feed to do this. There is an exciting innovation work in progress where both SGU and SGI are involved in developing new methods. But also Region Skåne takes a big responsibility as a affected region. A project is under way to test new methods for natural and ecosystem-based adaptation methods in the coastal zone. The goal is to find cost-effective but also ecologically well-functioning methods to protect coastal zones long-term in the changing climate where sea levels rise. I have great hopes that these new technologies will be important in the future.
i-42065b468541d352-290	Madam President, I would like The work on climate adaptation, which the Minister mentions in his response, is important for us to be able to identify risks and vulnerabilities. The Minister believes that the state, through research, coordination and knowledge transfer, facilitates and frustrates the work of municipalities, for example. This is, of course, in the longer term, and it is important and good. The climate issue is urgent, so this is important work. At the same time, however, we must have a sustainable system for those individuals and municipalities who have already been affected and who are struggling with the problem here and now. Most often, municipalities themselves bear the burden and responsibility for protecting and restoring their beaches. Just like my colleague Anders Hansson, it is associated with large costs to carry out beach feeding, from the production of data to the purely technical handling. But then the municipalities will also pay for the sand itself. Sand from the bottom of the sea is a state natural resource under the Law on the Continental Shelf, and the State is therefore entitled to compensation for the sand being returned. This entails considerable costs for the affected municipalities. The sand that is sucked up and returned to the beaches is part of a cycle where the same sand is washed out at sea again and again and then taken back regularly. Paying compensation for the sand each time may not seem entirely reasonable if it has been assessed that the beach feed is environmentally justified, as has been done in these cases. So there is no withdrawal of resources from nature, but just a transfer. Therefore, I think that the right of the state to claim compensation for sand should be reviewed by the municipalities that carry out shore feed from the state seabed. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this. Madam President, I would like I would like to come back to the issue of the dual authorisation tests, which I have already discussed. The basis to be developed by the municipalities is extensive, and I have a great understanding that it is perhaps not simply to do this either, that one must complement and so on. However, it is not easier to run the process in two different instances, so I still see a great need for simplification. If a municipality eventually succeeds after a long process in the environmental court there manage to get its permission to shoreline, the permit may still fall after a review by the government regarding the law on the continental shelf. Here we should be able to simplify and streamline. I would therefore like to see the regulatory framework reviewed in this part too in order to reduce the administrative burden. That is why my question is: does the Minister think that the current system is effective, or is she prepared to review the regulations so that we can have simpler and cheaper trials?
i-42065b468541d352-297	Madam President, I would like We often talk about the climate adaptation investigation. It is, as the Minister says, a major investigation into this. We agree on that. The problem with the whole of this investigation is that it does not take a position on the issue that the municipalities are actually most concerned with, namely the issue of financing. How is all this to be paid for? It is a matter of concern when the investigation in general gives Boverket more authority. But this often applies to existing buildings, not the beaches and how to handle them. We still lack answers on how to pay the affected municipalities. Maria Malmer Stenergard addresses precisely the cost of collecting sand at sea at shore feed. You pay for every piece of sand you take. It's actually kind of weird. In Ystad, for example, the sand is taken from a sand bank at Sandhammaren, which is about half in Swedish waters and half in Danish. If you buy the sand from Denmark it is taken from the same revel, and then Sweden pays for it. There would need to be some kind of coordination there, in terms of legislation, so that it can be easier for us to take sand on Swedish territorial waters than to buy it cheaper from Denmark without the test that I think both the Government and I want to be there. Is the Government receptive to talking with Denmark to see if it is possible to coordinate legislation? Finally, I would like to ask about the critical point: what is the funding for the municipalities, what is lacking in the climate adaptation investigation?
i-42065b468541d352-302	Madam President, I would like Yeah, we're talking to Denmark about sand sucking. I will not go into details, but I can say that we come from very different starting points when it comes to the view of sand sucking. I am not tempted to draw inspiration from Danish legislation. I hope that Anders Hansson and I can agree on that. The distribution of funding in climate adaptation is an extremely large and complex issue. It is true that the Climate Adjustment Study has not provided any clear answers to this so far. We have not received clear proposals on the table in those parts. It is simply an issue on which we will have to work more in the future. The government is prepared to take a certain amount of government responsibility for climate adaptation measures that are too large for an individual municipality to cope with or that are outside a municipality's influence. We have also shown this through the effort we will make in Göta River. It is a question that has been on the table for a long time. Several governments have left it lying like a hot potato. But this government has stated that someone must take responsibility for the Göta River. We cannot point to any of the municipalities concerned, but the state will go in and make a substantial contribution to ensure that the Göta river is safe. That's where we move in principle. The state is prepared to go in to some extent, in selected cases, and take part in the responsibility. I imagine that we should look further at what other cases, what other phenomena we have around the country, where it is relevant for the state to enter. But we'll do it with caution. We should not do so to such an extent that it creates a passivity in the municipalities, so that instead of working actively, the municipalities are waiting for the state to come and solve the problem for them. It must still be clear that it is a mainly municipal responsibility. And certainly beach erosion can be such a case. I hope that we will be able to talk across block borders – it is not a particular ideological issue but more a practical one – and look at where the limits of the state's responsibility should be. How should the state act to encourage responsibility, innovation and economically efficient work? How do we take responsibility that does not create passivity, so that we do not get municipalities that sit like birdhouses waiting for us to come? It's not a simple question. We have a lot of these parts ahead of us. As I said in my previous speech, climate adaptation issues are still immature. We have an investigation that has begun to deal with these issues. We have a lot of investigative work and political discussion ahead of us. The government will begin that journey by clarifying the division of responsibilities between different levels of society. We have also started by taking responsibility for safety in Göta River and thus moved forward the positions of what the state and government should and can do.
i-42065b468541d352-310	Madam President, I would like I want to finish where I started, with Sweden having a fantastic coast. It is an important source of relaxation but also of tourism and income. We have to take care of it. It is becoming increasingly apparent, as the sea eats further and further into our coasts, that we need a sustainable policy to protect our beaches, our accommodation and our infrastructure. As the Minister points out, we need sustainable rules on how to build in the future, so that we become less vulnerable. We also need to invest in research and innovation. I think that the Minister highlights interesting projects on how to achieve more cost-effective and sustainable protection of our coastline. While doing so, however, we must support those municipalities that want to take responsibility and protect our beaches and the residents. It is not easy for them to do so today. There I see great potential. On the one hand, the regulations can be simpler, so that permit management does not take forever, and on the other hand we can perhaps help the municipalities financially. You have to look at how, but for example by not charging for sand that is still moved around in a cycle. I think we will have reason to come back to these questions. I would like to thank the Minister for a good debate and look forward to further debates on this and other environmental issues.
i-42065b468541d352-314	Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by repeating the importance of talking about climate adaptation here in Parliament. When I was a municipal politician, I lacked discussion on the national arena on climate adaptation. I believe that many local politicians around the country still do so and feel quite lonely on these issues. I would therefore like to conclude by thanking you for the opportunity to discuss climate adaptation and beach erosion in Sweden. Of course, it is also wonderful to hear my home beach mentioned in this Chamber. It's an important place for me. I agree that the Swedish coast is important – for biodiversity, for nature, for tourism and for the quality of life in Sweden. There are many of us who love our coast, and we must work together to protect it. We must take very seriously the issues of rising sea levels and increasing pressure that come with climate change.
i-42065b468541d352-317	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Ewa Thalén on her position as Vice-President. I'm glad to see you in that place. Thanks also for previous good cooperation here in Parliament! I would also like to thank Mrs Cecilie-Toftby for the interpellation about how I and the government intend to invest in the Gothenburg train line – Borås. This is basically the same question that Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby asked me a few months ago, and my answer today is exactly the same as it was then. On 31 August 2017, the Finnish Transport Administration submitted its proposal for a new national traffic law-crossing plan for the period 2018 – 2029 to the Government. In its plan proposal, the Swedish Transport Agency proposes that the route Gothenburg – Landvetter – Borås should be a so-called pointed shortcoming. This is a concept that the Swedish Transport Administration uses to alert the Government that the route is likely to need to be handled in connection with the forthcoming revision of the national plan. The Finnish Transport Agency states that if the Government agrees with the proposal, it will prioritise the development of an in-depth basis so that there will be more knowledge about the shortcomings and possible measures at the next planning round. Mölnlycke – Bollebygd has, as you know, been discontinued due to a big deal. The Swedish Transport Administration's proposal for a national plan has now been made for a broad consultation and will be prepared in the usual way within the Government Office. What the final plan will look like, the government will decide on in the spring of 2018, and I therefore cannot today comment on individual objects.
i-42065b468541d352-321	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth for his answer, which unfortunately does not say much. He is quite right that I asked the same question a month ago, but it was a written question. This is an interpellation. I think the Swedish people should be told how Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth argues for his non-answer. So now he has the opportunity to clarify himself. As I said, the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal for a national plan for the transport system 2018 – 2029 has recently been submitted for consultation. Unfortunately, the Swedish Transport Administration has left out the railway initiatives on the section Borås – Gothenburg with the stage start Mölnlycke– Landvetter– Bollebygd which the Alliance initiated. This is unfortunate because it risks hitting the Gothenburg region and southern Älvsborg very hard. In order for jobs and businesses to grow, a good infrastructure is needed, I think we all agree on that. The labour commuting between Borås and Gothenburg is the country's second largest commuting route. Each year there are 9 1⁄2 million commuting trips. Every day 1,400 buses pass Delsjömotet. The whole of Sweden will live with the same opportunities for work, entrepreneurship and good welfare. That is why priority should be given to this route. The reaction to Trafikverket's proposal from politicians, organisations and companies in West Sweden was quite crushing. Constant disaster, says the West Swedish Chamber of Commerce. Regardless of political colour, descriptions are heard such as: distressing, strange logic, the proposal is substandard, remarkable and pervasive. Gothenburg has again fallen into an ironing class when it comes to infrastructure investments. The word 'catastrophic' is also mentioned from a political point of view. The list of upset quotes from business and politicians can be made long. We in the West also understand that resources are limited and that priorities are needed. But it seems very strange that Trafikverket's plan deletes almost spade-ready projects. It is also clear that the Social Democrats are now having a huge betrayal debate ahead of them. In December 2013, the current Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson visited Borås when she promised: 中 That promise was not conditional. That was a very clear and unconditional promise.
i-42065b468541d352-328	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby, for the interpellation! I think everyone knows that the Finnish Transport Administration is an authority that puts forward its proposals on the basis of the framework they have. The government has not taken a stand, but we are now in a position where we eagerly look forward to the referrals. The county planners from all over the country will meet on 25 October to talk about regional priorities. We will have a national hearing with the various stakeholders of industry. I am currently going country and country round to collect views for the government's position next spring. Not long ago I was in West Sweden, and I have been there for two rounds. I have, of course, even taken the train between Borås and Gothenburg, so I am well informed by regional politicians, the West Swedish Chamber of Commerce and business representatives about the strong commitment to both the route between Gothenburg and Borås, as well as the port of Gothenburg and other urgent infrastructure efforts. What is important from my political point of view is that, unlike the previous alliance government, I have 100 billion more to deal with. This government has chosen to prioritise infrastructure investments by increasing the framework for these investments. Now it is 622.5 billion plus 90 billion in congestion charges, co-financing and other things. A total of EUR 712.5 billion is available. Of course, it is not enough in relation to the wishes that exist. They exceed, as usual, wide existing frames. That's how it's been all these years. But there is no doubt that we now have a government that puts investment first. It is noticeable because, unlike when we had an alliance government, it is now being invested in housing, in education and in things that build the country strongly. But, of course, all proposals should be thoroughly prepared in the usual order. My predecessor had the ambition that the framework for infrastructure investment should be established by agreement with the bourgeois parties. Unfortunately, that was not the case. The bourgeois parties did not want to stand up for that negotiation. During this process, however, I have said that I would be happy to reach out to discuss both the alliance parties and the business community on the necessary priorities that we will have to make in the future. It is, of course, about doing things that are good for the Gothenburg region and West Sweden, but also what is nationally important. I also think that the port is a good example of something that is not only important for the region, but also good for Sweden, Norway and northern Europe. I'm going to listen to all the referrals. I intend to have a proper discussion about different funding options and different solutions to the challenges that exist. I also note that, in this context, the Moderates have given some different answers. The issue of high-speed trains is also part of the route we are talking about. I would like to recall that Anders Borg said as late as 2007 that we have overinvested in railways. He was then the country's finance minister. A little later he said that if you bet on the East Link and a high speed track it would be a robust unprofitable. Then they changed foot in Almedalen. Fredrik Reinfeldt then presented the construction of Sweden and said that it would now have a journey time of two hours between Stockholm and Gothenburg with high-speed trains. Then they land in the current management with Ulf Kristersson. In Ekot, he said no to high-speed trains: We're talking about hundreds of billions of dollars. In your recent lawsuit, you said that this is an example of a very unprofitable infrastructure project. My question back is: What do the Moderates think after the discussion? Are you for or against a project like this?
i-42065b468541d352-338	Madam President, I would like Thank Tomas for letting me tell you about the fantastic voice we have had this weekend with a lot of new good suggestions for how to make Sweden even better. When it comes to infrastructure and rail, we were clear that we are opening up alternative funding opportunities, that we want to invest in our main roads and that Gothenburg – Borås is an important initiative. I want to go back to my question to Tomas Eneroth. Tackling and identified shortages is the response of Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth to 1 million West Swedes and companies. What, then, does an identified flaw mean? According to Trafikverket, it should be interpreted as meaning that Gothenburg – Landvetter – Borås should be a so-called identified deficiency. This is a concept that the Swedish Transport Administration uses to alert the Government that it is likely to need to be dealt with in connection with future revisions of national plans. Then Magdalena Andersson and Tomas Eneroth have travelled this route. Magdalena Andersson left in 2013. After her trip, she issued a promise that by 2030 there will be a new railway between Borås and Gothenburg. On 3 March 2015, the Finnish Transport Administration submitted an action study describing the situation on this route, the needs and what should be done. Does the government really need another reply from the Finnish Transport Administration? According to Trafikverket itself, the planning for Mölnlycke – Landvetter – Bollebygd is soon completed; this can begin shortly if the government makes a decision and money is granted. But then we are once again at the heart of the matter: Is the political will of the Red-Green Government? Since 2013, positive news from the Red-Green Government has been cheap for us in West Sweden. I myself have been a municipal politician in Borås before I entered the Riksdag. I have been involved in discussing and planning for a new railway between Borås and Gothenburg. All Sjuhärad municipalities together with the Gothenburg region have been involved in this issue for almost 20 years. To believe that we are now experiencing expressions such as, Madam President, marked lack, as a positive message, Madam President, is to seriously underestimate the indignation and frustration that exists in us. I understand that I will not receive any more concrete information from Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. However, I would like to give him the opportunity to explain once again how much substance was in the promise made by the current Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, who actually has a crucial word when money is to be granted, pronounced e 2013. What are those words worth today?
i-42065b468541d352-343	Madam President, I would like Unlike during the time of the alliance government, when I often went to West Sweden as a political spokesperson, there is now quite strong growth. It's being invested and built. Large infrastructure investments have been agreed on a regional basis. There's enough bets in West Sweden. There is a significant difference compared to the years when the Alliance ruled. During eight years of government, no major building plans were reached for the Gothenburg – Borås section. Then I want to correct Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby. It is not that I am saying that the government's answer is that of recapitulative and denouncing deficiencies. That's Trafikverket's answer. As a member of the Swedish Parliament, one must be able to distinguish between the government's proposals and the government's policies. The Agency makes proposals independently. Should I at this point act as Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby thinks I would probably end up with the Constitutional Committee quite quickly, given the low bar that the Moderates have laid for KU notifications. In addition, I would immediately make a mistake if I desavoued all the bodies that seriously take forward proper referrals. In fact, I have respect for all the organisations that now produce referrals on the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal – whether it's about routes in West Sweden or northern Sweden, whether it's about shipping or aviation. For me, it is important to proceed thoroughly, because I also have 100 billion more at my disposal this time, when the government is now investing as much as we do on infrastructure. I'm not gonna ignore the referrals. On the contrary, I intend to continue to travel around the country and have good dialogue with local and regional politicians and business representatives. I feel that I have had a very good dialogue, not least with West Swedish politicians. But I am not going to anticipate the consultation bodies but will listen carefully and then do what is the tough task for us as politicians: to make the right priorities. We will prioritise what brings national benefits and is most important for Sweden. Can we then find better or further funding opportunities? I've already said that I'm prepared to turn all the stones around. But the message that I now received that the Moderates are opening up for alternative financing measures was actually news to me. I understand from the current party leader that it has not been done before. I am a little curious to hear how Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby thinks that action should be taken to broaden funding opportunities. This, of course, affects the public-financial framework and the fiscal framework. But if the Moderates have good solutions for financing models, I think it is important that we listen. I believe that the infrastructure investments we are talking about in the future are so important for Sweden and so strategically important that it is good if we can find broad agreements. Although the government itself has the decision in the national plan, my whole way of working is to ensure that more people are involved in the process, precisely to ensure that there is a broad consensus. Let us have discussions! Therefore, I am particularly curious to hear how the Moderates are now opening up for complementary financing solutions.
i-42065b468541d352-347	Madam President, I would like It is good that Sweden is doing well. It is also good that there are regional initiatives in West Sweden, where we have moderate alliance governance. As the Minister says, the government will take a position on the Swedish Transport Administration's investigation. It's good to do it thoroughly. I expect that we will not receive any more empty electoral promises from socialist representatives who travel around the country. But still: Why did a priority like Borås – Gothenburg disappear? Trafikverket does not act in a vacuum. It perceives signals and moves from politics and must relate to the mission given by the government. This is what they themselves say: In the directive that the government went out with, only two streets were spaced, and there was not Borås-Gothenburg. What remains is the consolation prize – pointed out deficiency. But what's it worth? I would like to refer once again to what the Swedish Transport Administration has said: Despite the fact that the route between Borås and Gothenburg is pointed out as a shortcoming, there is no answer to whether and when it can start to be built. It is a matter for politics. I think the Red-Green Government should start taking responsibility for its promises. If you've given them, you've given them. Of course it is about funding, and I assume that Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth will have contact with our representatives in the Transport Committee and discuss the issue. The fact that we have a functioning infrastructure is important not only for the 9 1⁄2 million commuting trips and the 930 000 people living in West Sweden, but also for entrepreneurship, growth, jobs and welfare. Magdalena Andersson's promise that this will be completed by 2030 is increasingly distant. To conclude, I would like to ask: does Minister Tomas see the need for a modern railway in West Sweden, and will the Minister for Infrastructure work to make this – preferably during our lifetime – a reality?
i-42065b468541d352-352	Madam President, I would like I do see the need for greater investment in rail. I note that the Transport Agency's proposal is 75% rail investment. The reason is simple. We're underinvested. For a very long time, we had a government that gave priority to tax cuts for private consumption rather than investment in what builds the country big, including infrastructure but also housing and education. It is clear that I would like to see more rail being built, and there will be a lot more railway being built. As far as electoral promises are concerned, I think Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby should also be a little careful. Fredrik Reinfeldt, who was still prime minister and party leader for the Moderates, promised a Swedish construction with high-speed trains that would go between Stockholm and Gothenburg in two hours. It didn't take long in opposition for the new moderate leadership to give a completely different message. Obviously, it is not only in the area of migration policy and labour law but also in the area of infrastructure policy that the Moderates are now turning 180 degrees. I have invited myself to the Transport Committee to meet with the whole committee and, of course, to speak bilaterally with the representatives of the alliance parties in particular. I do not intend to have a dialogue with the Swedish Democrats in this context. Although we may feel a little different – it is in the nature of things that Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby in this situation wants to dramatise the Trafikverket proposal – I still think that the policy and the long-term investments we face are a little too important to just become a short-term party-tactic debate in the face of an election movement. I think it is important that we can find a national handshake for long-term infrastructure investments, and I very much hope that we will be able to do this across party boundaries.
i-42065b468541d352-355	Madam President, I would like Magnus Oscarsson has asked me what I intend to do to ensure that infrastructure projects, such as roads and railways, take more account of arable land and water protection areas. Magnus Oscarsson asked the same question earlier this year to the then Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson. The answer is still valid, and I would therefore like to repeat it. In general, infrastructure projects almost always mean that difficult trade-offs must be made between different interests, both individual and general. Agriculture and water protection are two of the many different public interests that may be affected by the development of road or rail. It is clear that the Environmental Code's consideration and management chapters are to be applied to the examination of matters under both the Road Act and the Railway Construction Act. This means, among other things, that a location should be chosen that is appropriate in view of the fact that the purpose can be achieved with the minimum intrusion and inconvenience to human health and the environment without undue cost. Magnus Oscarsson's question is raised against the background of the Swedish Transport Administration's ongoing planning of E22, the part Jämjö – Lösen. As the responsible minister, I cannot comment on the ongoing work of the Swedish Transport Administration on an individual matter.
i-42065b468541d352-358	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer! The use of farmland for building or asphalting means that fertile land disappears and cannot be recreated. In fact, in Sweden arable land disappears as large as three to four football fields every day. It is arable land that can never be used again. Roads built over agricultural land take part of our potential for food production. In 2016 I was part of a group that worked out a food strategy. We were seven parties that got along. Before the summer, we made decisions in this House. Several of me think that it is a good food strategy that is important for our country. One of the main points and central to the strategy is that we are now talking from a political point of view about developing agriculture and not about dismantling what has been customary from a political point of view before. The focus is on increasing production. It's supposed to be more profitable. It is important to strengthen competitiveness and increase food self-sufficiency. However, increased food production requires that companies have access to productive arable land. My question to the Minister is: What does it mean for the government that the parliament decided on a food strategy? Does that mean that the Minister is telling the state works for which the Minister is responsible that we have now taken a decision on a food strategy in this House and that they must relate to this? If so, what are the consequences?
i-42065b468541d352-363	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson, for your work on food strategy! I am very pleased that we had broad support for the food strategy. It is important for Sweden and for a growing food industry. We also welcome the fact that food exports are increasing. In that part, I come in as Minister of Infrastructure. Should food exports be able to increase and should we be able to ensure that more people have the opportunity to take it of the Swedish whether we are talking about cereals, meat products or other things, we must have good communications in the country. We must ensure that ports are able to fulfil their mission, that we have airports and other freight routes that can strengthen exports and Swedish competitiveness. Everyone realises that this is true at any time when new infrastructure is being built. I could imagine that there is a strong common desire from all parties for more infrastructure to be built. However, it is clear that the Environmental Code states that according to both the Road Act and the Railway Construction Act, the respective provisions of the Environmental Code should be taken into account. It is clear that the authorities must have that starting point when interpreting. They cannot be based on what is said in general terms; they must be based on the legislation we have. In this case, as Minister of State, I cannot anticipate a possible future government review of the road map for the development of E22 between Jämjö and Lösen. If an appeal is made, it will end up on my table in the government. It would be unfortunate if I spoke in advance of this, although I understand that Magnus thinks that would have been a point. I'll have to wait to make a statement about the individual object. On the other hand, there is no doubt that it is important now that we are making major infrastructure investments in the future, because we are doing so, that at every opportunity we start from and take into account the legislation we have and make the difficult trade-offs that it entails. This applies whether it is productive arable land, fantastic forests at home in Kronoberg County or other interests that exist. It is precisely the balance between interests that is difficult. Here is a preparation of the Swedish Government's proposals that are ongoing in the Government Office. It is rather after that preparation that it can be said more clearly whether there is a possibility to make changes to the environmental code's 3 Chapter.
i-42065b468541d352-369	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer, although of course I want more. The specific case that the Minister is dealing with concerns the E22 and a road drawn between Jämjö and Lösen in Blekinge. The planned rescheduling of the E22 is a distance of about 15 kilometres, of which 8 kilometres are on the best arable land in the region. It's class ten out of ten possible. About 100 hectares of arable land are affected and are planned to be coated with asphalt instead of giving full production of potatoes, wheat or anything else you can plant there. I am pleased that the Minister's reply refers to the environmental code. It says, just as the minister was in on, the following in Chapter 3. §4: a useful agricultural land may be used for settlements or facilities only if it is necessary to satisfy essential social interests and this need cannot be satisfied in a generally satisfactory way by the use of other land. ..................................................... In this case, there are alternatives to build roads over forest land and low-production land. This would mean an extension of about half a kilometre, while at the same time a stop could be saved. Nevertheless, the Finnish Transport Administration does not seem to consider that an alternative route would provide for the need for modal shift in a way that is satisfactory from a public point of view in the sense of the environmental code. It is then legitimate to ask when, Minister, the provision of Chapter 3 of the Environmental Code should ever be. Section 4 may be applied. Does the Minister think that the environmental code should be followed? What does the minister have to say to all the victims around the area?
i-42065b468541d352-374	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson! Of course, as Minister of State, I think that the authorities should comply with the legislation we have. We have the order that, in this particular case, it is at first the Finnish Transport Agency that has to decide whether to satisfy essential social interests. Then it may be tried in court. In the end, it could actually end up on the government's and my table. That is why I cannot speak in this context. I know the E22 well. I've driven that route. As a small-timer you often go down to beautiful Blekinge. I also know that there is a strong regional commitment to investment in the E22. Ma n knows that it is a very important stage for the business community to tie Blekinge together. It is clear that all concerned recognise the difficult balance that always exists between urgent infrastructure projects linking the county and at the same time how routes can sometimes affect and even use productive arable land. That possibility exists today. But then there should be good reason for it. The agency has done its work. The question is now not on the government's table. Nor can I now give an opinion on this in advance in the event of a judicial review. On the other hand, I am pleased, and I think that is the most important thing in this context, that there are resources for investment in new infrastructure. If the food strategy is to succeed and if we are to have a vibrant countryside throughout the country, we must be able to make major investments in infrastructure. Sweden has been underinvesting for a long time. Now we have 100 billion more than in the previous national plan to spend infrastructure on both rail and road. In this way we build Sweden stronger. We are strengthening the ability to compete. We are strengthening export opportunities. We link the country together, and we also make sure that we invest in a way that enables us to cope better with climate change. That is why I now go around the country and the country listening to the authorities and regional and local interests. I have, of course, met politicians and stakeholders from Blekinge. I will have hearings and meet both LRF and other stakeholders to generally get views on the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal. But again, with regard to the specific project, I cannot comment. However, I take it for granted that the authorities are complying with the existing legislation and, as I said, I am pleased that we now have 100 billion more to invest in infrastructure than we had during the time of the alliance government.
i-42065b468541d352-381	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the debate. I believe that decisions taken by Parliament must be followed. We decided on the government proposal A food strategy for Sweden – more jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country. It clearly states that the government considers that it is unsatisfactory that the legislation is not applied as intended and that it needs to be ensured that the land is taken into account in spatial planning. ..................................................... It is quite clear to me as a simple Member: it is unsatisfactory, and respect for agricultural land needs to be ensured. I find it interesting that you yourself as a minister have gone that way, and you will also meet stakeholders. I think it is important for the Minister to stop at this place in order to gain knowledge. I was there in the spring and saw what a road would mean for those affected. It's very serious. That is why, as I said, when you tell me that the government has now set aside so much money and given what I just said about ensuring that agricultural land needs to be secured, it can be a few million more expensive if you can actually ensure that agricultural land is there for the future. So what do these words, as you yourself have said in your bill, mean?
i-42065b468541d352-386	Madam President, I would like The words testify to a clear direction of will and indicate the direction in which the government wants to change the legislation. In this case, however, the legislation must be amended. Magnus Oscarsson also knows that the authorities cannot apply a law based on intentions, but must apply the law that actually exists. So far, the environmental code has not changed. When such a proposal comes, I take it that the Christian Democrats are prepared to support such a change, and that is, of course, urgent. In the same way, it is important that there is a regional agreement in Blekinge about the priorities you want to make. For me, as Minister of Infrastructure, it is of course important in the further work on the National Infrastructure Plan to catch signals where regions agree on urgent projects. I intend to reward common priorities before projects where there is no full backing. So it is clear that it is an important part of the consultation procedure and in the round trip I am currently making to listen to various signals from regional representatives. I understand that the Christian Democrats in Blekinge in this case are not as concerned that the current route of the Swedish Transport Administration should be the one that applies, but rather that one would like to see another.
i-42065b468541d352-389	Madam President, I would like Mr Wallmark has asked me what measures I have taken to inform the Swedish people and the opposition about the safety deficiencies in the Swedish Transport Agency since my admission in order to ensure that a complete picture is conveyed. Furthermore, Mr Wallmark has asked me how I ensure that events similar to those that have occurred in the Swedish Transport Agency do not happen again in the future. Let me first stress that what happened at the Transport Agency, when the authority's then management decided to waive the applicable security legislation, is, of course, serious. Like Hans Wallmark, I am anxious that as full a picture as possible of the safety deficiencies in the Swedish Transport Agency can be communicated to the Swedish people and to the opposition. Already a week after I took office as Minister of State, the Government decided that an investigator will review the entire course of events from the time the Swedish Transport Agency initiated the process of purchasing the IT operation. This is a lengthy process that began already during the time of the alliance government. At the same government meeting, the Government also decided that the Swedish Transport Agency itself should identify the safety-worthy tasks that have been handled by non-safety-tested personnel and the extent to which this management has been in accordance with the applicable regulations. I hope, of course, that these two missions will provide answers to many of the questions that we all ask ourselves. Both assignments must be reported to the Ministry of Industry by 31 January 2018. With regard to information management in the Government Office, I have great hopes that the review of the Constitutional Committee will provide answers and lessons that can be useful for the operation. The Government Office naturally assists in this process by answering the committee's questions to the best of its ability. As regards Mr Wallmark's second question – how to ensure that something similar does not happen in the future – a number of measures have been taken. Let me give you a few examples: A study was set up in March this year to identify the need for preventive measures in relation to outsourcing of security-sensitive activities. The investigation is part of the important work to modernise and strengthen the Security Act. A memorandum containing proposals on restrictions on the ability of government authorities to outsource and transfer security sensitive activities will be submitted to you by 30 October. In June this year, all monitoring authorities were tasked with analysing and assessing the security of information in their own operations. A new national strategy for the development and strengthening of information and cyber security in Sweden was presented in June this year. In August this year, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency was tasked with providing coordinated and secure government IT operations. In July this year, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency was asked to propose a management model for protected IT spaces. There is a great need to develop the information security of Swedish authorities. With what happened, the Swedish Transport Agency, and the public Sweden as a whole, have been given a great deal of thought in terms of how information that is security sensitive or for other reasons confidential can be handled. There is an opportunity in it that I hope we can take advantage of. These are issues that deserve attention.
i-42065b468541d352-396	Madam President, I would like In addition to congratulating the President on sitting at the platform, of course, I would also like to congratulate the new Minister for Infrastructure. This is the first time we have met in an interpellation debate. I'm glad to see Tomas Eneroth take on his new assignment. In part, he is now allowed to do so to clean up after what some other colleagues and party colleagues have done before him. This interpellation debate is not so much about burdening his shoulders as highlighting some of the responsibilities that rest on the shoulders of others. Madam President, I would like Let us agree on the seriousness. It is a security breach that we are talking about. That is something that has so far demanded the resignation of two ministers, the dismissal of a Director-General and the dismissal of a State Secretary. So this is something that is serious, big and basically very complex. I am therefore struck by something that I wish the Minister for Infrastructure to take with him. Throughout this process, even after Tomas Eneroth had been appointed Minister of State, I think it has been a tumbling, and it has been poor and unclear with information to the Swedish people, to the Swedish Parliament and to the opposition. I believe that it has been torn, torn down and drawn to obtain information, especially from the reviewing media and in some sense from individual Members of Parliament who have raised questions. Fortunately, two ministers were forced to resign. As a result, several questions were never answered because it was specifically referred to the absence of these ministers and thus unable to answer the questions. Madam President, I would like I fully share what the Government says about the fact that there is now a KU review. I am pleased that the government intends to be open with information. Of course, everything else would have been strange. There is no reason to even imply that this would be a ralcative, but that is how it works. However, there is reason to remind the government and its members that a KU review is not an embargo. It is no obstacle and no barrier to telling you how it is and answering questions from the media or individual ministers. The KU review is important in itself, but there are other processes, not least the media's open scrutiny, which is important in itself. As a defence spokesperson for the Moderates, I think all of this shows the security policy hole that has opened up with the breakdown and what could have been done. From my point of view, I find it embarrassing that there have been data from autumn 2015 – at least two ministers, Ygeman and Hultqvist, knew about this in February or March 2016, and the Prime Minister had knowledge of this in January 2017 – about what has actually been done and what has not been done. I shall be very honest, Madam President. These are complex and difficult issues. I think that for many Swedes this is a lot of technicalities. It is difficult to understand us elected politicians who are discussing this. It is easier to relate to lottery tickets that have been sold on credit and for which it is then required that Kronofogden redeem the debts. It is something you can relate to, and it is something you can understand. Despite this complexity, I believe that the government, which is responsible, has a special duty to inform and explain. Nevertheless, I must advise the Minister for Infrastructure that this government – Tomas Eneroth is part of it – can do more to inform and explain to the Swedish people, to the Swedish parliament and to the opposition.
i-42065b468541d352-404	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Wallmark for the interpellation and discussion. Of course, the government should be open with information, and I think the government has been. The priority is, of course, the KU review. It's incredibly important. It goes back a long way. This means that the KU, like the special investigator Thomas Bull, will also review the time when the alliance government ruled. Let me just give you an example of why I think it's important. The four regulations written to the Transport Agency in 2011 – 2014, when we had a bourgeois alliance government, do not mention the word security at outsourcing on one occasion. It was only when there was a change of government and it became a Social Democratic government that the new title Information Security could be read under the new regulation letter 2015: The Swedish Transport Agency will in the work of the 2015 risk and safety analysis pay particular attention to and analyse information security in those parts of the business and in the technical systems that are necessary for the agency to be able to carry out its work. This work shall also take into account and analyse information security within the Authority's remit. The Authority shall provide an assessment of the information security and measures taken. Nevertheless, I would like to say that there was a proper awakening in connection with the change of government. And I think it is important that the review carried out by the KU, but also by the Council of Justice on behalf of the Government by the Swedish Transport Agency, provides a deeper understanding of the mechanisms that led to the outsourcing of important activities without ensuring which competence existed to determine whether this was right or not. That's why I really mean what I've said even in interviews and as I said in the interpellation response: In addition to what happened at the Swedish Transport Agency – and it was extremely serious – there's something for all of us to learn in this. With regard to the security holes that exist not only in the authorities, but also in municipalities or organisations, we must have a completely different vigilance from that we have had in the past. That is also why the government is taking and has taken a number of initiatives in these areas. I myself chose to immediately appoint the review by the Justice Council Thomas Bull, and it should be completed already in January – not for it to be careless through but to ensure that there is a good basis for the KU going into a more intense stage. It is important to have that question highlighted. The agency has, of course, a special task in developing how it has handled information sensitive data, and I have ensured that I will receive information on a regular basis. I shall, of course, in special dialogue with the Director-General and Chairman of the Transport Agency, ensure that adequate measures have been taken. One can judge the seriousness of the matter by listing who has left his mission or not — that is true. It is part of the political dynamic. However, I believe that both Hans Wallmark and I believe that the most important thing is to assess what potential risks could actually result from deficiencies in information security for Sweden as a nation. It remains to be seen what conclusions the KU draws from the examination of the actions of both the previous government and the present government. I have full confidence that the KU will make wise judgements because during this parliamentary term we have had a KU which has worked very well and which has been able to put party political strife aside in favour of what are joint assessments from Parliament's point of view. I do believe that this was an unserious act on the part of the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats in the discussion of censure, but we can come back to that in another change of line.
i-42065b468541d352-412	Madam President, I would like Let me start with what we agree on. I believe that there is a need for a Government regime that is characterised by increased security thinking and by institutions with officials who are not clueless. This applies to the whole scale; I would perhaps even like to point out that this applies not only to the Swedish Government but also to private Sweden. Both public and private Sweden have every reason to raise its threshold against various forms of intrusion and against the threats and risks that exist. There was a consensus between the Government and me, Madam President. What we do not agree on is that if you now look back on what has happened, both during the time that Minister Eneroth has been a minister and during the time he has been a group leader in the Riksdag, I do not think that one can be impressed by the way in which the Social Democrats handle information management towards the Swedish people, the Swedish parliament and the opposition. I even think that one would gain part of one's argument in terms of security thinking if one admitted that it has been a grumbling and a fumbling – and that there has also been a failure to announce what is really going on. There are now different parallel processes, Madam President. This is, on the one hand, a KU review, which is quite reasonable and which actually applies both to previous governments and to the current one, and, on the other hand, to the political scrutiny that is taking place. It is done through, for example, the review media and individual members' questions. There is still a great deal more to be done there. Declarations of censure are part of highlighting the lack of political responsibility that I believe has been shown by this government, Madam President. In its reply, the Government of Eneroth stated that it has now given a mandate to the Swedish Transport Agency to identify for itself what safety-worthy tasks have been handled by non-safety-tested personnel and to what extent this management has been in accordance with the current regulations. That is very good, but what I also think one should do is – perhaps in a slightly self-critical spirit – ask the question what the government and the Government Office as a whole could have done. Reference is also made to the strategy presented in June. I think a very strategic conclusion that can be drawn is that the Government Office and the Council of State Committee could have acted much better. I find it sad that our Social Democratic Prime Minister was one of the last to find out about the security breach that has occurred. I would also like to go into the department for what we can agree on. What I just said may not be agreed on, but what I am about to say I think we can agree on. It is that we would need stronger sanctions from different types of regulators when they review what authorities can do, such as Säpo and the Swedish Armed Forces. We have also seen other examples of authorities that have been sloppy on the margins, if we put it that way. There should be clear means of sanctioning the maintenance of the safety thinking of the authorities. I can also welcome the Government's efforts, together with our sister parties in the Nordic countries, to raise this kind of issue within the framework of the Nordic Council and Nordic cooperation. I am among those who believe that this, although we have been through these months in Sweden with the Swedish Transport Agency, are challenges we share with our Nordic friends. Ultimately, this will be about objectives, means and method, and there are other things to be desired by the government – although I started my speech in a more conciliatory tone.
i-42065b468541d352-420	Madam President, I would like It is quite true, as Hans Wallmark says: There are things we can really agree on. I know that there is a solid interest in security issues with Hans Wallmark and the Moderates. There we often find a consensus in securing what is national interest, namely to ensure that the relevant authorities have the right resources and opportunities to make the best efforts to strengthen Swedish security. Not least our defence agreements show signs of this. Then there is certainly improvement potential in terms of information management by both the authorities and the Government Offices. Since I have a long time in Parliament behind me, I would like to remind you of the Nuon affair. Despite the fact that it was going on for a very long time, I do not think that either the Prime Minister or even the Minister for Finance said they were informed about this billion-dollar deal. The review there also revealed obvious shortcomings. There are advantages to information structures where everyone is responsible for their own, and there are also disadvantages. I believe that the KU will show and highlight in a good way how the information in both the Government Office and between authorities has worked, and so we will have to draw common conclusions. What I resist, and what I think was an unserious act, is the use of the motion of censure tool. I have 23 years in the Riksdag behind me, and I have never experienced such casual use of Parliament's sharpest instruments in the way that the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats now chose to do. Normally, however, they want to ensure that a KU review is carried out or that authorities otherwise provide evidence, but this did not take long. As early as this spring, there was a discussion of the motion of censure on the question of what tax proposals the government was going to put forward, and now there was another discussion on this. That does not impress me as an experienced parliamentarian. I can understand the party political interest in having a discussion about the government's responsibility. I am concerned about that myself, and have been in the moments I have been in opposition, but one must be very careful with what is Parliament's sharpest weapon if we are to have confidence in the institutions we usually venerate in solemn speeches. That is why I think it is important that, now after the turbulence that has been – after the vote of censure on Peter Hultqvist, where he received support to remain in the government – we wait for the KU's review, ensure that it takes place carefully and draw the right conclusions on what this means for public Sweden. I do not believe that these are issues that benefit from becoming victims of hard party polemics, but rather I believe that these are issues where we need to get together in what are Swedish and common interests. Mr Wallmark is quite right in one thing, and that is that this is not just a matter of information management by the authorities. It concerns municipalities, and it concerns the private business sector. There may be in the defence industry or in other actors a knowledge and awareness of the new risks that the information society has brought about, but I am not entirely sure that this exists throughout the business community. That is why we have a common interest in systematically reviewing and analysing the efforts we can make. This should be done with respect for privacy legislation, of course, but we should nevertheless ensure that we do not casually outsource important information so that non-safety-rated staff can access it. The review by the Justice Council Thomas Bull will already be able to provide us with important information on how the authorities use competence in January. Not all authorities can always have all the skills – then you have to ensure that you use advice from Säpo, MSB or other actors to be able to make the right decision in Authority Sweden. To ensure that this happens within the authorities is, I think, one of the most important tasks of the government now.
i-42065b468541d352-428	Madam President, I would like I appreciate the tone we have on such difficult and complex issues. I may perhaps find it interesting that the constitutional deviation of the State Council on censure is one of Parliament's tools. The Government noted that our use of this tool did not impress him. I must return this by saying that unfortunately I am not impressed by the government's hands. The government has avoided informing the Swedish people, the Riksdag and the opposition about the security breach. There has been an inability to tell, Madam President, which has led to the tearing and tearing out of information. I think the government should benefit from self-critical consideration of this. I also think it is important to distinguish between the different types of scrutiny in this context. The KU's review is now taking place, which I think is a good thing. I share the view of the Government that it is a good thing that both the former and the present government are being examined. But there is also a political review that needs to be carried out. You will be subjected to this for the 2018 elections. It is about how you have handled this security breach and about what I would like to say is the inability to inform the Swedish people, the Riksdag and the opposition. In addition, it will ultimately be about the central crisis management we have. Do we have a government office and a prime minister who understands and sees the collective threats that exist? Is it reasonable, Madam President, for the Prime Minister to be one of the last – the opposition was, of course, even later – to be informed of the security risk that exists? There you have a self-critical lesson to do, the pleasant tone of defiance.
i-42065b468541d352-433	Madam President, I would like To quote almost Hans Wallmark, I can say that we do not always impress each other. This is in the nature of things when it comes to opposition and government. However, there is a common understanding and interest in what we have before us, which is a great joint effort to ensure that we get an improved safety culture throughout Sweden. Of course, there are times when you should tell and inform about everything. But Hans Wallmark, as a defence policy expert with long experience in security policy, defence policy and foreign policy, knows that there are also times when you absolutely should not tell us everything you know. This also lies in showing leadership and acting. Of course, when it comes to emergency preparedness, it is only in a sharp position that one really knows about the ability to practice and to absorb information has produced the right results. In any case, I can see that it worked relatively well in the harsh situation that prevailed in Sweden in connection with the attack on Drottninggatan. The action took place quickly – not least the police acted in a very good way. Of course, it is possible to draw conclusions from this, and it shows that practice makes perfect. Therefore, the government has practiced in a completely different way from what we have previously done in public Sweden. Even the Riksdag has practiced, which I thought was important. This has, of course, been due to sad circumstances and to the fact that we are living in a more uncertain environment, where security policy threats may be greater than in a long time. This means a little more challenging demands on both the opposition and the government, knowing how the outside world views Sweden, to discuss how best to protect vital national interests, not least in terms of information security. This discussion must be able to be conducted in a way that allows you to create intimacy while avoiding harming Swedish interests.
