i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-2	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for approval of the draft decision of the Committee on Defence, except in the part covered by reservation 4 by the Moderates, the Centre Party and the Christian Democrats, to which I also call for approval. Mr President, I would like to In recent years there has been a sharp increase in the illegal use of explosives, particularly hand grenades. On several occasions, hand grenades have been used by criminal individuals and groups in attacks, often in public places where there is a high risk that the public will be affected. We remember, for example, all the eight-year-old boy in Bishopsgården in Gothenburg who was killed when a hand grenade was thrown into an apartment last August. It is relatively easy, Mr President, to find hand grenades on the black market. According to statistics from the National Operations Department of the Police Authority, the number of cases where hand grenades have been seized has increased in just the last three years. The large number of hand grenades also makes Sweden different from other comparable countries. It is in itself a good thing that the government is now proposing to tighten the penalties for breaches of the authorisation requirement for explosives and that it is also harmonised with the legislation applicable to weapons offences. However, the proposals that are now being put forward, Mr President, are unfortunately inadequate. In its referral to this bill, the police authorities point to the fact that the penalty of up to one year's imprisonment, which is proposed to be the minimum penalty for serious violations of the permit requirement for hand grenades and other military explosives, is not sufficient and limits the possibilities for the police to intervene. Instead, if the minimum penalty for breaching the permit requirement were to be set at two years, the police could use coercive measures, such as the collection of electronic communications data. Moreover, Mr President, detention would almost become mandatory for this type of crime. It is therefore gratifying, Mr President, that the Committee on Defence, particularly as a result of a follow-up motion by the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats, has decided unanimously to propose an announcement to the government that a minimum penalty of just two years should now be investigated. There is also reason, Mr President, to review the legislation on the possession and use of war material by individuals. This is the reservation of the Moderates, the Center and the Christian Democrats. We are simply proposing to break out the handling of war material that is completely devoid of legal civilian use and criminalise it. Hand grenades are a clear example of a product that is only made for military purposes and has no civilian use. In addition, hand grenades can cause great damage even without intention, as several of the illegal hand grenades that exist in Sweden are both old and unstable. Therefore, according to the proposal of the Political Authority, there should be a review of the possibility of introducing a special penal code that makes possession and use of war material manufactured for the purpose of harming or killing individuals prohibited for private individuals. That, Mr President, is an attitude that we share. In this context, it is also important – let me conclude with that, Mr President – to take into account and deal with the bordering issues that exist between civilian and military use so that products that have a clear civilian use and do not pose a problem from a criminal point of view are not banned.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-11	Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I only apply for reservation 1. In our reservation 1, we have a bill to tighten the penalty for gross violation of the permit requirement for flammable and explosive goods. Unfortunately, our bill does not get a majority. Secondly, we have supported a liberal motion for a declaration to the government on such a penalty. It is therefore a question of tightening up the minimum penalty for serious infringements of the obligation to authorise flammable and explosive goods to two years. It provides the possibility for the police to use other intelligence tools, and it may be important in carrying out operations against those handling this type of material in an illegal manner. The background to the fact that we in this House agree on this is gang violence in recent years. These are shootings almost every day, creating insecurity in our residential areas – that's the least you can say. The use of automatic carbines is increasingly common. In recent times, then, hand grenades are also used in our residential areas, more or less regularly. It is good that we in this House now agree to tighten up the Government's proposal in the bill for a minimum penalty of one year for gross violation of this law. We agree on a minimum sentence of two years. We think that is very good. It would also be reasonable to classify hand grenades as weapons and not as explosives. They are both, but they are made as weapons and used as weapons. So that would be the correct classification.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-16	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for our reservation 4 in today's report to be approved. These are issues on which it is important that we have a constructive approach. It is also important that we find long-term approaches and clear guidelines. It is also a matter of legislation that meets the challenges of the day, but also of the future, as developments sometimes go the wrong way. A deliberate offence in the case of explosives renders six months. It is positive that the government has proposed increases in penalties and that they work on the issues. The risk that explosives could be used for criminal purposes must be taken into account. It is also about the degree of danger and the extent of the illegal possession. Sometimes there is no responsibility. As criminals use this type of explosives, and this is increasing, it is important to do what can be done to combat it. These goods are at least as dangerous as firearms. The effect that a hand grenade could have on an open area in a densely populated area is extremely serious. It is important that this should be treated equally in our application. It is good that the government is proposing higher penalties for offences against the authorisation requirement for explosives and that the legislation is harmonised with the legislation applicable to weapons offences. However, I share the view that the government could have gone much further and that there is reason to push further. In the opinion of the Political Authority, we see that the problem is highlighted that the proposed punitive measure is not sufficient and limits the police's ability to intervene. If, instead, the minimum penalty were to be two years, as we have heard, the police would be able to collect data on electronic communications in the intelligence activities of law enforcement authorities. That would be the right step to take. I would like to thank and welcome the fact that a united committee, and also the additional party, supports our three parties' motion to further investigate the minimum penalty for up to two years in prison. There is also a need to review legislation on the possession and use by private individuals of war material and hand grenades manufactured solely for military purposes, have no civil use and can really do great damage. We believe that the government should investigate the introduction of a special penal code, which prohibits individuals from possessing and using war material manufactured for the purpose of harming or killing people. I would also like to stress the importance of taking account of the problem of the demarcation between civilian and military use.
i-BrUQsZBU8Cm65Had27X2Uq	Mr President, I would like to I am going to concentrate my speech on our motion for a resolution on limiting the use of fireworks and, in view of the approval of the Left Party's Amendment No 6, I would like to call for the use of fireworks to be restricted. Rocket attacks, facial injuries, burned-down schools and terrified animals are some of the results of last year's New Year's celebrations in Sweden. At Möllevångstorget in Malmö there was an almost chaotic situation in connection with the New Year celebrations in 2017, according to several news sources. Rockets were directed at people, houses and cars. But the situation in Malmö is far from unique, without alarm if fireworks attacks came in from different locations around the country. Among other things, fireworks were lit in a bus in Gothenburg. In Borås, a four - year - old girl was shot at by fireworks. In Gävle the police received several alarms about serious events with fireworks during the New Year's weekend; among other things, a rocket was fired inside a store. Of course, fireworks can also be a great joy and great pleasure to some people. The Left Party therefore does not want to ban fireworks, but there is clearly a need for better supervision and regulation of the use of fireworks. Some of the negative consequences that fireworks can bring are that the high bangs can be perceived as very frightening for both humans and animals. We know that fireworks cause a great deal of suffering in animals. Especially dogs and horses can be extremely stressed by the high bangs. When it is not possible to predict when the shooting will take place, it is of course particularly difficult to protect yourself and take precautions, such as travelling away or temporarily moving animals in connection with celebration. For example, for people with dementia and people, especially children, who have fled war situations and in many cases suffer from post-traumatic stress syndrome, fireworks can cause great concern and great discomfort. Many others, too, are disturbed by fireworks and experience discomfort when fired near homes. Mr President, I would like to We know that people are seriously injured and even dying because of fireworks. According to the police and MSB, the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, about 100 people are so seriously injured every year by fireworks that they need to go to an emergency room. More than 20 of these have such serious injuries that they need to be hospitalized for treatment. One of these was Tranåsbon Johann, who got a rocket in his face in connection with the New Year's celebrations in central Tranås, which led him to visit hospitals and sew his nose together with a large number of stitches, according to SVT Jönköping. It was an accident that could have ended even worse if the rocket play had exploded something earlier. The most common injuries from fireworks are burns and wounds. Damages to the hands and fingers are common as well as injuries to the head, where especially the eyes are exposed. Another problem is all the fires caused by fireworks. According to the police and MSB, the number of fire interventions during the New Year is doubled compared to other days during the Christmas and New Year holidays. Fireworks account for a large proportion of this increase. The link between fire interventions caused by fireworks on New Year's Eve and time is clear. At the twelve and the hour after, most bets are made on fires caused by fireworks. The chemicals involved are a burden on the environment. It is also a question of spreading toxic substances in nature. Mr President, I would like to In other words, there are many reasons for regulating the use of fireworks – environmental, personal, animal welfare and so on. Among other things, it is a question of limiting use to certain designated places and times, and of regulating who is allowed to sell and buy fireworks and when this should be allowed to happen. It is good that in recent years there has been a tightening up of the use, import and sale of fireworks. It is also good that MSB is carrying out various forms of information on the risks of fireworks, but we believe that unfortunately it is not enough but that more measures are needed. Several municipalities have tried to impose stricter restrictions on the use of fireworks, including Växjö, Nynäshamn, Mörbylånga and Strängnäs, but have not supported it in the legislation. It must be possible for municipalities to make such decisions. The current legislation is clearly not sufficient. There is therefore a need to review the legislation in order to improve supervision, strengthen regulation on the use of fireworks and increase compliance with the legislation. Stronger legislation on the use of fireworks is long awaited by many and would bring great relief to both vulnerable people and animals around the country. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-33	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Defence, which deals with the strengthening of penalties for offences against the authorisation requirement for explosives. Unfortunately, it is a problem that is increasingly evident. The use of, for example, hand grenades among criminals in Sweden is, according to reports from the police, unprecedented in the world among countries that are not at war. The use of hand grenades among criminals has increased by 170 per cent in 2015 – 2016, according to the same report from the police. Let me give just one example. In the summer of 2015 there were several grenade attacks in Malmö's inner city. Several cars were completely destroyed by a grenade that exploded outside Malmö City's office for individual and family care. This is something that has moved into Sweden and must be combated. It's about giving the police the tools to do something about it. That is also the reason for the reservation that the Christian Democrats have with the Moderates and the Center Party, where we believe there is reason to review legislation on the possession and use of war material by individuals. Mr President, I would like to Hand grenades are made for a single purpose, namely to be used in war. It is something that has unfortunately moved into Swedish territory. Last year the police received over 50 cases concerning the hand grenades in Sweden. Hand grenades cause a lot of damage. In line with the opinion of the Political Authority, we believe that it should be examined whether a specific criminal code which prohibits the private possession and use of war material made to harm and kill people should be introduced. Mr President, I would like to With these words, I would like to endorse reservations 3, 4 and 5.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-37	Mr President, I would like to As has been pointed out by previous speakers, the debate is about increased penalties for infringements of the authorisation requirement for explosives. It contains many parts. There are explosives that are weapons-like and unfortunately as dangerous as firearms. Unfortunately, the presence of explosives in criminal circles has increased. With this in mind and since the penalties for weapons offences have been raised, the government proposes to tighten the penalties for serious violations of the authorisation requirement for explosives. The Government's proposal includes raising the minimum penalty for gross violation of the permit requirement from six months' imprisonment to one year's imprisonment. In addition, the Government proposes to introduce a specific scale of penalties for offences which are considered to be particularly serious. The sentence shall be imprisonment for a minimum of three and a maximum of six years. Certain changes shall also be made to the circumstances to be taken into account when assessing whether a criminal offence is to be considered as serious. Mr President, I would like to The committee welcomes the fact that the government is taking steps to curb the increasing presence of explosives in criminal circles, including the possession and use of hand grenades for criminal purposes. That is why the committee also supports the government's proposal to tighten up penalties. In addition, the committee believes that the government should investigate the possibility of raising the minimum penalty for serious violations of the permit requirement to two years' imprisonment, for which the government has also flagged. It is also important and positive in this context that the government will proceed with a proposal to increase the minimum penalty both for serious weapons offences and for breaches of the authorisation requirement for explosives to two years in prison. With regard to the issue of the possession and use of war material – in the motions it is a lot about vests – the committee notes that the introduction of a special penal code prohibiting the possession and use of war material by private individuals has not been included in the investigation mission on which the bill was based. The Committee feels that the use of fireworks is a matter of great personal responsibility in terms of both own and others' safety and well-being. Indeed, it has been shown that there have been problems with firecrackers especially the days before New Year's Eve, and perhaps even efte r. I have animals myself – a dog and two cats – so I know about the problem of having animals. Of course, people also suffer, as previous speakers have mentioned. However, the committee believes that there is scope for limiting and intervening, if necessary, within the existing framework and legislation. We are following the issue, and it is important to realise that there are problems that need to be addressed so that no one, animals or humans, needs to be harmed. Mr President, I would like to In view of the above, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-44	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing breaches of the authorisation requirement for explosives. The use of weapons such as hand grenades and the like has increased in recent years, and it has become increasingly a problem for the police. In addition to the examples already mentioned, a hand grenade was thrown at a police car in Tumba in 2015 and left over 100 holes in the police car. The fact that none of the police were injured in the attack must be seen more as a happy coincidence than anything else. Moreover, the use of grenades among criminals seems to have increased, as has also been noted in the past, from ten cases in 2015 to 27 last year. In the light of this, the government has come forward with proposals for a penalty to mark the seriousness of this type of crime and to enable the police to give it more priority. In the end, the committee agreed to propose a minimum sentence of two years. We have had some discussions on the length of penalties, but in the end we have agreed that priority must be given to this issue. It is positive that it is now being done. The decision will allow the police to arrest suspects and to use different types of signal detection to access that type of activity and thus stop it before someone is seriously injured. The report also deals with proposals to limit the use of fireworks. The use of fireworks must be done with care, but there is an existing regulatory framework in place where it is possible for municipalities to set restrictions on where and how fireworks are to be used. My assessment is that the current regulatory framework is working in an acceptable way at present. Not all problems can be resolved. Ultimately, there is also a personal responsibility. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-52	Mr President, I would like to We are debating today's report A provision of the law on the reception of asylum seekers and others. I'm gonna keep it short. I shall begin by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation 2 in the report to be approved. The Swedish democrats are generally in favour of the bill. We welcome the introduction of the possibility of recourse to the Police Authority to enforce decisions quickly, if necessary, against persons who have lost their right to stay in asylum accommodation. The Finnish Immigration Service has informed that many of the people who are no longer entitled to assistance do not leave their places of residence on their own. This applies in particular to those who have lost their right to assistance as a result of a final decision on expulsion. However, it also happens that people who are no longer entitled to assistance because they have been granted a residence permit and have been assigned to the municipality do not voluntarily leave the accommodation. Rejection and expulsion decisions shall be followed. You have to respect a decision. In this proposal, the Government assesses that the government's expenditure will be reduced as a result of the cessation of the use of housing resources. The police are already suffering from a shortage of resources and staff. This proposal will entail additional work and costs for the Police Authority. The government has made it clear that it has been difficult to assess the extent of the additional work, but the government rightly comes to the conclusion that increased costs are limited. That's a conclusion that the police department is questioning. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats therefore believe that the government does not take sufficient account of the increased costs and workload that these extra tasks will result in for the Police Authority. It is therefore our view that the government should, as soon as possible, preferably in future amending budgets, transfer resources from the Migration Agency to the Police Authority.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-57	Mr President, I would like to The rule of hand which we are debating today is a consequence of the amendments to the law on the reception of asylum seekers, abbreviated LMA, introduced on 1 June 2016. I would first like to say a few words about the link between these two. The aim of the amendment to the LMA was to increase incentives for participation in the execution of expulsion cases, to free up housing sites and to reduce the cost of foreign aid to the state. The bill was based on the migration agreement between the government and the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats. It is no secret that the Left Party is not in favour of this agreement because it is based on a false statement of reality and undermines the right to asylum and the rule of law. The Left Party, like the other parties in this House, believes that anyone who is refused their asylum application should respect the decision. Decisions on expulsion must of course be followed. It is an important part of the legal order, as is the fact that decisions are taken legally and on a proper basis. The withdrawal of aid for those who do not comply with these decisions can therefore be considered reasonable at first sight. However, the Left Party questioned whether this change of law would have the effects that the government said it wanted. Even in cases where there is no basis for asylum, people flee from terrible and uncertain conditions. To think that the suspension of aid would be enough to make these people want to return is a little naive. There is a lot of solid, documented experience about what kind of return work works, not least from the Swedish Red Cross, which has been working on this since the Second World War. These experiences have been consistently ignored by the government. Our assessment when the proposal was presented was that the change in the law would result in more people living as undocumented people in Sweden and that the situation for people who were already very vulnerable would be even more difficult. Some costs are reduced as the right to assistance and housing is lost for the group in question, but we see that other costs arise as a result of the vulnerable's living situation. Costs are charged to municipalities, non-profit organisations and the local community. Mr President, I would like to We can already see that a great deal points to the fact that we were right in our assessment. The Swedish Red Cross has done a current situation analysis of the consequences of the change in LMA so far. Attention is drawn to increased concern and vulnerability among those affected by the amendment and to the fact that an increasing number of asylum seekers with rejection have contacted the Red Cross for support and assistance. It is about the need for help with basic things such as food, health and housing. The Advisory Board also highlights several cases where people have been evicted even though they have done everything they could to participate in expulsions or expulsions. The Red Cross's experiences strengthen that image. More than 50% of the people the Red Cross has met say that they do not understand why the right to assistance has ceased and that they have not received a written decision that the aid has ceased. Nor have they been informed of the possibility of appeal, and this is central. The bill of hands-on means that the Migration Agency should be able to request the Police Authority to provide the necessary assistance to execute a decision to leave their place in a facility. The aim of the proposal is to more quickly evict people from an accommodation they do not have the right to remain in. However, the proposal makes the legal framework for persons who, according to the decision of the migration authorities, are to leave the country completely different from that for all other groups in society. It sends unfortunate signals that asylum seekers are a special group that requires special measures and has weaker rights. Both the Swedish Law Council and the Swedish Bar Association strongly criticise the bill from the point of view of legal certainty. In summary, the Swedish Law Council believes that the proposal for the hand-off of the Police Authority when a foreigner is to leave his residence can be questioned from the point of view of legal certainty. It is clear that a further assessment in this regard is required. ..................................................... There are rules to protect the individual in the enforcement code. If responsibility for evictions is transferred to the Police Authority, there are no corresponding provisions. The police's decision cannot be objected or appealed. They also do not include any obligation to state reasons, so that those who consider the police's decision to be incorrect or disproportionate are referred to a subsequent complaint by the JO. Mr President, I would like to The Police Authority is also critical of the proposal, partly because it would impose a greater workload on the Agency, which is already under great pressure. We all know that. The Left Party agrees with the criticism of the Political Authority and asks itself to impose additional burdens on the Authority at this stage, in addition to tasks that there are good reasons to allow other actors to deal with. The absence of a description and analysis of Sweden's obligations in relation to international convention obligations is also criticised by the Swedish Law Council and the Swedish Bar Association. They believe that the proposals may be in direct violation of Sweden's obligations under international law and that Article 8 of the ECHR, which states the right to respect for home, private life, family life and more, has not been taken into account. The concept of "home" should be interpreted in the light of actual circumstances and entirely regardless of whether the accommodation is allowed or not. According to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, any person at risk of eviction must have the right to be examined whether the measure is both proportionate and reasonable in relation to the purpose. The Left Party fully agrees with this. The Bar also points out that a transfer to the Police Authority would be incompatible with the European Convention's requirements for remedies and the right to object to decisions. These principles are important in the rule of law. They mean that both parties in a process should be given the opportunity to oppose the opposing party's arguments and take note of the grounds. All in all, Mr President, this bill has so many shortcomings – serious ones for the rule of law – that the Left Party cannot support it. We therefore request that the proposal be rejected and that reservation 1 be approved.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-73	Mr President, I would like to This case concerns a provision on the reception of asylum seekers in the Act on the Reception of Asylum Seekers. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. Since June 2016, we have provisions in the LMA that say that the right to assistance ends when a expulsion decision has become final and a possible deadline for voluntary departure has expired. Aided housing also includes accommodation in construction housing. The LMA rules apply to adults without children. Sometimes, however, the individual does not want to move out of the accommodation. But it's a dwelling ma n no longer has the right to. Anyone who loses his right to assistance in the form of accommodation may have his or her case brought before a court, but the decision applies immediately. However, the Court of Justice may suspend the decision. The proposed handrail clause means that once the Migration Agency has done what it could to get the individual to leave the accommodation, or if there are special reasons for the police's participation, the Migration Agency may request assistance from the police for the eviction part – nothing else, just the eviction part. The handrail can only be used when there are special circumstances. The provision also applies to families with children who have been granted a residence permit and a municipality placement. I can understand that another breakup can be frightening, but staying in the facility is not an option. Now it is time to really start their new life in Sweden, and that means getting out in Swedish society, to get their own accommodation and opportunities for schooling, language studies, education and work. This cannot always be offered in all places, especially in all the places where we currently have small asylum accommodations. Integration into society is best done in ordinary housing. Our new Swedes need to be spread throughout the country. That is because it is the best integration. Asylum homes are for those who are waiting to have their case tried. When we received many asylum seekers for a short time, many and various asylum homes were procured, both in cities and in small villages. Now that the flow of refugees to Sweden has decreased, it is quite natural that the Migration Agency should reduce its costs. In this is to reduce the number of residential units, first the temporary and procured dwellings. The goal is for most of them to be directed by the Finnish Immigration Service itself. That the procedure goes directly between the Migration Agency and the police, I think, is the best thing. Involving the Enforcement Authority, which sometimes also takes hands-on assistance, prolongs the entire process. I have great faith that the police force has both expertise and expertise to help with the eviction process. With regard to the resources for the handrail, it is impossible to predict how large they need to be and how many cases will be considered for eviction. It can also spread throughout the country. We, from the government, will follow this closely. If the costs are too high, we must try to correct them, through additional resources to the police. But we don't give extra money until we know if the extra costs are high. The statement that there are people who have not got decisions in their hands and who are completely unacceptable to this, let us take a closer look at it. I think the vast majority of people have got their decisions in hand. Sometimes, though, you may not really want to understand the decision you have made.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-85	Mr President, I would like to Since 1 January 2013, Member States in the EU will have to provide the public with easy access to certain information on organic operators under control. Access should be consumer-friendly so that the public can easily orient themselves and find the information they are looking for. There are today six companies that are approved to certify organic production in Sweden. Together, they now control about 5 000 different organic operators. According to the proposal in the bill for the publication of information on organic operators submitted by the government, the government does not want these operators to be included in a national register. Instead, consumers are expected to turn to the six different certification companies' websites and search for the information themselves. Several of the certification companies have already begun to integrate and reprogram their databases in order to be able to publish data on public operators. There would therefore be considerable scope for transferring data from certification companies to a common register of a national authority. This has been done in some European countries, such as the Czech Republic. Thus, a single national register would not create any additional regulatory problem for individual organic producers. Mr President, I would like to Allowing all information on organic operators to be spread across several different registers impairs consumer friendliness, compared with the fact that all data would be collected in a register provided by an authority. It goes completely against the basic objectives of EU law. The idea is that it should be consumer-friendly and easy for the consumer to find the information you want. A single register could also give foreign customers better opportunities to orient themselves among Swedish producers. That is why the Center Party and the Christian Democrats are calling for a rejection of the government proposal. Instead, we would like to ask the government to appoint an authority to establish and maintain a common national register for the publication of ecological operators. I would therefore like to support this reservation.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-93	Mr President, I would like to We are now dealing with the Committee on Environment and Agriculture's report 2016/ 17:MJU18 Publication of information on organic operators. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for the reservation to be rejected. Sweden is often accused of going much further than the EU requires. In this respect, the Government makes no demands beyond the minimum requirements of the Regulation. It is also worth noting that the Law Council has not had any comments. In the case of control bodies, the most important thing is that there is a follow-up of how they carry out their tasks. Both Swedac and the Swedish Food Administration check that the control bodies perform their duties. One advantage of the agencies publishing the data is that they update their lists every day. For an interested consumer, it is also quite easy to learn which certification institute applies because they are numbered from 01 to 07.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-100	Mr President, I would like to The world is not quite the same, as we are used to seeing it. That's good. It is good that developments do not stand still. If the world had been the same, it would have been an indication that we are standing still, that we are not moving forward – which we must do. But the world does not look as we wish. And that's not good. We live in a time when previous truths are being put on hold and questioned. New theses appear and claim our truths but are actually fake news. Fact resistance has taken an iron grip on our existence, and it affects us all – all over the world. It affects our ability to benefit from each other's strengths. Instead, abandoning good cooperation leads to weakness. When mistrust of established values and standards grows strong, it not only takes the bad and the not working in the case. Even much of the good is broken and lost. Trust and cooperation, which are so well expressed through free trade, are under pressure at the moment. Nationalists and isolationists on the right hand side make common cause in unholy alliance and hook arms with the fundamentally trade-sceptic and against the market economy utterly distrustful left. The dark forces – black and red – have taken several steps forward. In this, all of us friends of freedom have a challenge to face. We need to talk about this in today's trade debate. Mr President, I would like to When dark forces do what they can to delay, complicate and shoot down free trade agreements between open and tolerant countries in the world, it is time to reflect on the benefits that free movement has made for people's everyday lives. It has created flows of goods and services across man-made borders. It has increased the prosperity of the world and raised the poor to self-sufficient middle class. Now they can plan their lives over time and also have the ability to realize their plans. That is what trade has done in the world and for the world. Last Saturday it was Earth Hour, this strange invention where the Western world in misplaced benevolence conceals itself for no benefit to those in other parts of the world who just yearn for more light, more enlightenment and warmth and more opportunities. The world does not need more of empty symbolic acts, but more of active action. More open free trade would be a blessing for the world's darkest corners. What could a trade hour do to improve the world? Imagine an hour, a day, a week or perhaps a whole year, in which we are freed from expensive tariffs, restrictive standards and trade quotas, without discriminatory taxes and protectionist currents! A trade hour all year round would make the world feel so much better. Mr President, I would like to New concepts meet us in battle currents. Five years ago no one had heard of TTIP, CETA, TPP, Brexit or Trump. Five years ago these concepts were completely unknown. Today they are realities, evil as good. We see that world trade today is at a very strange stage. For a few years now, world trade has been declining, at a time when the world needs more trade and action, and we need it better than ever. Trade is in many ways a tool for development, not least for the economies of less developed countries. By acting, the economies are growing, and the citizens of developing countries are given greater opportunities to influence their future. Here, the patterns of the new era, with increased e-commerce, play a major role. For Sweden and Europe, this is particularly important, as 80% of growth is now taking place outside Europe. In fact, the fact that a product is exported from Sweden does not mean that it is only Swedish. As much as 40% of exports from manufacturing have actually been produced in other countries. Exports are dependent on imports, and therefore increased world free trade is a priority as it develops skills across borders. It is therefore far too limited in trade policy to focus solely on exports. I have said this before and hopefully will not have to say it so often in the future, but Sweden does not need an export strategy but a comprehensive trade strategy that takes into account both exports and imports as part of a developed trade. Protectionism is probably one of the darkest forces walking through the world today. It is one of the biggest threats to a well-functioning world trade. Since 2008, protectionism in the world has increased. The fight against protectionism and for greater free trade is and must be Sweden's most important mission in trade policy. In a trade-dependent country like Sweden, domestic growth is threatened if markets are closed and established trading partners are increasingly withdrawing from external competition. If trade is the universal language of the world, protectionism is almost like its gag – not much is said, and no business is done. Here we have challenges. We see that Britain wants to leave the European Union. This will affect Sweden, whatever form the resolution will take. Sweden has the United Kingdom as one of its main trading partners, especially in trade in services. The National Board of Trade has made a number of scenarios to see how things will go if some things fall out and others don't fall out. In all these examples it turns out that it will be to the detriment of Sweden. That is why the Swedish Government has a major task in ensuring that these negotiations will move in a direction that preserves as much as possible of free trade and ensures that there are as little negative consequences as possible. This is a pressure that the Swedish Government is going to put on the European Union and its negotiators. But we also see that the Swedish government has problems in the area of trade. I have great respect for Sweden's Minister for Trade Ann Linde. She has a difficult mission, and she works half-time on it and is EU Minister for the rest of the time. But the government constellation is built so that there is an environmental party that does what they can to put green sticks in the wheel – to slow down, investigate and make sure that we put a lot of less pressing factors into various investigations to simply slow down, prevent and stall. The government support party in the Riksdag is the Left Party. It is basically a trade sceptic. It is fundamentally against a market economy. I am not surprised that in the Left Party you do what you can and raise your voices to stop one free trade agreement after another and so on. It's not surprising, because it's in the basic ideology. However, it is a difficult task for a government to build its government base on the support of as weak a source of windfall at the slightest sneeze. Mr President, I would like to Sweden must work to reduce tariffs and other barriers to trade. We must work for more bi- and plurilateral trade agreements and functional dispute resolution mechanisms in the world. We must continue to stimulate entrepreneurship among cosmopolitans and develop trade export opportunities. We must also ensure that we stimulate the export of Swedish welfare services. We must counter protectionism and be a clear voice for global free trade. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a small voice, but even a small voice can sound in a large room. It is a question of putting things right, and it is a question of articulating clearly. It's about saying what we really stand for. With this, I would like to endorse reservations 1 and 13.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-119	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. The year 2016 and the beginning of 2017 have been an eventful time, especially when it comes to things that affect international trade. What, then, has happened? Well, TTIP, Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, seems to have stopped, and CETA, Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, has been voted through in the European Parliament. Donald Trump became President of the United States, and one of the first things he did was to leave the TPP, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, and Britain voted for Brexit and is now preparing to leave the EU. Prime Minister Theresa May has apparently stated that she is prepared for a harsh Brexit, and today she is triggering Article 50. All these events, of course, affect Sweden directly and indirectly, as we are an export-dependent country benefiting from free trade. But why does this affect Sweden? Well, with the US going to be outside the TPP agreement, they are missing out on a major free trade agreement that is likely to benefit China instead. Both Australia and New Zealand have made it clear that they want China with them now that the United States has withdrawn. Deterioration or reduction of trade in the United States also results in a deterioration of trade in Sweden, as the United States was Sweden's third largest export country in 2016 with a share equivalent to 7.4 per cent of Sweden's total exports. The UK is our fifth largest importing country and our sixth largest exporting country and thus an important trading partner for Sweden. Brexit is and will be devastating for Sweden's imports and exports unless the EU negotiates a mutual free trade agreement with the UK. Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May has released an action plan – I have it here – called The United Kingdom's exit from, and new partnership with, the European Union. It contains 12 objectives for exiting the EU. In the Action Plan, the Mays government is clear that it wants to be transparent in the process. Former EU legislation shall apply. The aim is to strengthen cooperation within the UK and with Ireland. They want regulated immigration. EU citizens and British citizens working and studying within the Union should be able to continue doing so without complications. It does not want to restrict mobility altogether. They want to protect the rights of British workers. It wants to work towards a free trade agreement with the EU and to establish free trade agreements with new countries. The UK will also be a leader in business and innovation development. It wants to continue working with the EU in the area of legal certainty and terrorism. They want to leave the EU in a calm and secure way without harming any party. In the light of these objectives, we see no problem in meeting the demands, nor do we see any attempt being made to remove the raisins from the cake. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Government has had a clear position vis-à-vis the UK: it does not accept a harsh Brexit. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has said that Britain should not be allowed to pick the raisins out of the cake. The EU's tone has been even tougher – it clearly wants to make sure that those who break free from the EU's shackles are punished. The Swedish Democrats have always taken Brexit seriously and was therefore the first party to exercise about how to handle a Brexit. According to the motion, we believe that a trade agreement with the EU should be concluded urgently. This is important for Swedish industry but also for European trade as a whole. It would provide more credibility for the EU while facilitating investment both in Sweden and in the UK by enabling companies to plan their future operations. Sweden's opinion is that Sweden should be a driving force within the EU to bring about a new trade agreement between the EU and the UK.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-129	Mr President, I would like to Trade policy has become increasingly interesting over the past year. It has moved from being part of economic policy to increasingly being part of our countries' foreign policy. I think it is a good thing if Sweden keeps up with these developments and sees that the trade policy decisions we make also have a major impact on our foreign policy. There are two events going on that make me think it is such a development we are seeing. One is the trade debate between China, the EU and the US in relation to the overproduction of steel in the world. After China's huge investments, there is currently overproduction of steel, and someone has to cut back. The EU and the US have therefore not wanted to grant China market economy status within the framework of the WTO and, at the same time, China has dumped its overproduction of steel on the European and American markets. As a result, the US has responded with high tariffs and the EU with increased duties, albeit at a significantly lower level. The second event is the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States, which means a major reversal of US trade policy. We do not know exactly what it will look like yet, but the President's criticism of the NAFTA agreement and the TPP agreement has been clear. What does this mean for Sweden? Precisely what that means is, of course, difficult to guess, but we have to deal with our trade policy as being also part of foreign policy. If the Socialist and environmental party government wants a feminist foreign policy, it must also have a feminist trade policy. Unfortunately, today we see a government that does not. It is more focused on increasing Sweden's exports at all costs than ensuring our important voice in the world. The result is a policy that is not connected and where one hand does not know – or wants to know – what the other hand does. Let me give you a few examples. In February, the Prime Minister and Trade Minister travelled with a delegation to the Iran of the dictatorship. Iran has not really made any democratic progress since the 1979 revolution, but, following the agreement to close Iran's nuclear programme, it has opened up its market, instead of facing sanctions from the outside world. Despite increased openness to trade, it is clear that we are an authoritarian dictatorship. According to Amnesty, in 2015 alone, at least 977 executions were carried out. Those most affected by the regime's abuse and repression are ethnic and religious minorities, LGBTQ groups, trade unionists and supporters of opposition groups. Many people who live in Sweden have fled from the Iran of dictatorship in recent decades. Some have been refused asylum, such as Hamid Aryan — although he belongs to the Christian minority. I wonder what all the Swedish citizens who have fled Iran think about the government's approach to this dictatorship. Mr President, I would like to Since last year in the Philippines, President Rodrigo Duterte has been in control. He has made a choice to reduce crime, but his methods are not within the bounds of the law. Through extrajudicial executions, he has killed over 5,000 people suspected of being criminals. The police have turned into a death squad, and vigilante guards have been paid to kill suspected drug dealers. At the same time, the opposition has been threatened; among other things, opposition politician Leila de Lima, who criticised Mr Duterte and his methods, has been threatened with life and has been forced to resign as President of the Commission on Human Rights. What does Sweden do? Yes, the alliance government decided to close the Swedish Embassy in Manila in 2008. It was a decision we from the Left Party regretted. The serious human rights situation, the Filipinos living in Sweden and the growing number of Swedes visiting the Philippines are good reasons why Sweden should have a permanent presence in Manila, and on 7 November 2016, the government opened a new Swedish Embassy in the island kingdom. In the same week, however, the arms manufacturer Saab also opened a new office in the same district in Manila. When the Minister of Economic Affairs visited the Philippines at the opening ceremony, Saab was one of the companies included in the delegation. The Philippines is also one of the 26 priority countries in the Government's export strategy, and Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg, like other representatives of the Swedish Government, has on several occasions argued that trade in and investment in these repressive and undemocratic states is necessary to promote development in the countries. This seems to apply, according to the government's approach, even when trade consists of arms exports. Until 2028, the Philippines wants to buy 12 new fighter planes. This is a multi-billion dollar deal that many weapons manufacturers compete for, of which Saab is one. Saab now markets a wide range of weapons systems in the Philippines, including coastal surveillance systems and submarines as well as land-based systems. In Filipino media, Sweden's ambassador has highlighted the possibilities for Saab to sell submarines to the country. At the same time, he praised Dutertes's tax reforms and stressed that the widespread violations of human rights do not deter Swedish companies from doing business with the country. Mr President, I would like to After decades of war and long negotiations, the Colombian government and Farc have agreed to lay down their weapons, after more than 50 years of conflict. Peace finally seems to have come to Colombia, which means that there is peace throughout South America. The Swedish government has promised SEK 950 million over a five-year period to the peace work in Colombia. At the same time, Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg signed an agreement on defence cooperation with the Colombian Government on 13 March this year. The agreement has raised criticism, not least because Saab has focused on Colombia as the next market for JAS 39 Gripen. Colombia doesn't need any more guns. In 2016, alone, over a hundred murdered human rights activists were reported in the country. What Colombia needs is a long-term peace process in which the number of weapons in the country is greatly reduced. In addition to this, neither of us has forgotten the Saudi affair and everything flatters the government gave that dictatorship for it to continue trading with Sweden. Has the Swedish Government done nothing good? It has strengthened relations with Tunisia – the only country that has come out of the Arab Spring as a new democracy. That's been a good thing. However, Swedish trade policy would need more such examples, and unfortunately the government's export strategy has locked the government in its mind on which countries should be prioritised. For us in the Left Party, this priority is remarkable, because at the same time there are a number of democratic countries that are expected to have high growth in the coming years, such as Ghana, Peru, Mozambique, Chile and Zambia. The problem with the government's priorities is not just that some countries are dictatorships. Several of the countries also build their economies on oil exports. Pointing out oily dictatorships is problematic from two points of view. One aspect is that their economies are unsustainable, since oil and fossil fuels are the fuels of the last century. They have a difficult way to go even now, when the price of oil is low, and they will get it even tougher when the world changes and lives up to its climate ambitions. The second aspect is that Swedish trade strengthens dictatorial rule and ensures that current order can continue. This means that Sweden's export strategy will possibly export products, but it will hardly export democratic ideas. The question is whether the export strategy really lives up to the government's ambitions for a feminist foreign policy. Mr President, I would like to The Treaty of Lisbon has moved the power over the negotiation of trade agreements from the government to the EU. The Left Party is critical of the content of several of the negotiations that the EU is now conducting and of the way in which they are conducted. Transparency is too poor, and the EU is pursuing a line that will give large companies greater power and the opportunity to sue states. The Left Party is therefore opposed to the TTIP agreement with the United States, which currently seems to be deep in the freezer. The TISA service trade agreement is in danger of continuing the imbalance in the world, between rich states in the North and poorer states in the South. The Left Party is the only party in the Swedish Parliament that intends to vote against the CETA agreement with Canada, on which the Riksdag will vote this autumn. This is not because we would think it is wrong to trade with Canada. Instead, it is because we see how to strengthen the power of big business to influence our legislation and regulations and to ensure that they can sue those states that do something other than what these companies want. This moves power from democratic assemblies, such as the Riksdag, to big business lobbyists and lawyers. This is a development that we in the Left Party cannot support. The Left Party has six reservations, but for time winning, I only ask for the approval of reservation 7.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-152	Mr President, I would like to That's how we got to hear it at the end – big business is the big problem for the world! Big business is the threat. Would Håkan Svenneling like to see fewer large companies? Does Håkan Svenneling think it is good that big companies are shrinking? What is so dangerous about large companies? Large companies are companies that have worked well and provided jobs for millions of people. Why is big business such a terrible thing? The Left continues to say no to increased free trade and better opportunities for Swedish competitiveness, which is something that the CETA agreement between the EU and Canada will give us. The Left Party was against Nafta. You were against the EU. You are against the TTIP agreement. Now you are against the CETA agreement with Canada. But the fact remains: Increased free trade is what will continue to increase our country's ability to influence and assert ourselves internationally and improve Swedish companies' ability to create jobs in Sweden. The CETA agreement is basically one of the most modern and forward-looking free trade agreements negotiated, and it reinforces ties across the Atlantic even more. Canada and the EU; the EU and Canada. This is not about any warlike, malicious dictatorships. There are no exploitations. This is about perhaps the most peaceful and well-developed countries in the Western world, which in many respects show great humanity when it comes to migration movements on both sides of the Atlantic. Why, Håkan Svenneling, do you want to postpone such an agreement, which can bring benefits to the world?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-159	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Rothenberg for the question. Let us begin with the question of big business and why it is problematic for them to dictate the conditions of politics around the world. Large companies in many cases have larger economies than many countries in the world. Large companies make sure to promote their interests, which are not the environment, human rights or consumer rights. It's about their products selling better, so they'll make more money. The fact that these big companies are so big and strong that they can use their power against the countries of the world is something that worries me. I think Mr Rothenberg has the wrong image of the Left Party's trade policy. The Left is not against free trade, but we are very much in favour of free trade. But we are in favour of free and fair trade, and it is in this area that I think many parties in the Swedish Parliament are going away. It is not seen that trade does not automatically lead to democracy or to fair conditions. Nor does it see the imbalances that exist between different parts of the world and how free trade sometimes reinforces those imbalances. When I was younger and joined the Young Left, which is the Young League of the Left Party, I read a book on trade and trade policy. In it was a picture of two airplanes. One was a small propeller plane; the other was a great jumbo jet. The two planes had a level playing field, but it will always take different lengths of time for them to reach their destination. The rules of the game are not fair, regardless of whether you have a level playing field. The conditions are not fair, because the jumbo jet will always be faster than the propeller plane. That is also true of the countries of the world. That is why we must constantly emphasise that Sweden's voice in trade policy should be more like our voice in foreign policy. We must protect a fair and fair world, in which we stand up for human rights.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-167	Mr President, I would like to Small planes can't grow bigger. I agree. But small companies can grow bigger. They can grow by gaining access to larger markets and the opportunity to sell more of what they have to offer. This is the dynamism of the market economy, and free trade is the most important tool of the market economy. Håkan Svenneling says that the Left Party is in favour of free trade. For a number of years I have been able to read the Left Party's motions on trade policy, and I can say that it is a cavalcade of saltomorphic piruettes. It twists, distorts, misinterprets and distrusts everything that has to do with the development of trade and interprets it into the negative. That is exactly what the Left Party is doing now, when the free trade agreement between the EU and Canada is to be put on hold. The National Board of Trade is the government's trading authority. It has worked since 1637 and is one of Sweden's oldest authorities. The National Board of Trade has carried out an analysis of the potential effects of CETA on the environment, human and animal health and democratic decision-making. Let me read you a few examples. The National Board of Trade considers that CETA does not restrict Sweden's right to regulate to any major or significant extent. It is considered that the protection granted to investors is largely already covered by Swedish law and the ECHR. The National Board of Trade also considers that there is no risk of a cooling effect on EU legislation. In addition, the new EU tariff quotas for beef are not considered to be of direct importance.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-173	Mr President, I would like to I would say that we are absolutely in favour of more markets being opened up to Swedish companies and to companies in general. I think there are great advantages to the fact that we do not have a lot of customs duties between Sweden and Canada. The problem is that the 1,600-page CETA agreement is very little about reducing tariffs, nor is it on this point that the agreement has received criticism. The criticism is, instead, about the other parts, where power is transferred from democratic assemblies to large corporations in a way that we do not like. The thing is, we're right in our salt morphals. Indeed, it shows this, as when Romania was sued by a Canadian mining company for wanting to impose environmental requirements on the operation of the mine and demands that the mine should not destroy an old village. The Canadian company is claiming damages corresponding to the entire health care budget of Romania. The case of Moorburg, which is about Vattenfall's lawsuit by the German state, or actually Hamburg's municipality, shows how Swedish state companies use this type of dispute resolution mechanisms to ensure that they get their environmental conditions passed as they want. Otherwise, they threaten to sue the German state for incredibly large sums of money. This shows how dangerous it is when you walk alongside the ordinary legal system. It also shows why we should instead be able to stay within the legal systems of democratic countries. The National Board of Trade, just as Hans Rothenberg was concerned, has analysed the risks of the CETA agreement. It was done during the summer, when everyone was on vacation, and it was done very quickly, by sending out to a few. Among other things, they sent to Uppsala University, whose head of staff has represented Vattenfall in the disputes with Germany. This shows how the National Board of Trade has confused the cards and cannot distinguish whether it is an academy or a company's interests that give answers. This opinion has since been fully adopted, which I think is detrimental to Swedish democracy.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-180	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate you on your work. I would like to start my speech in the same way that I start every morning, with a cup of coffee. It is a beverage that can be said to be a prerequisite for the Swedish labour market and its strong coffee tradition. For me and many with me it also stands for something else, because every time I see a cup of coffee I see peace, freedom and the value of our country standing strong and keeping its borders open to the outside world. For us as humans to develop, we need to meet other people. For new ideas to be formed, influences must be allowed to come from many different directions. For our prosperity to work, commodities must be able to move freely across continents. For our business community to develop, entrepreneurs must be able to come to our country to realize themselves and their business plans. Mr President, I would like to This week the Treaty of Rome turned 60 years and with it the foundation of the European Union, which is still, 60 years later, the main peace project of all time. For most of us born after the signing of the Treaty of Rome, war is something foreign. For us, it is not in our imagination that the coffee tap was once closed to our country. We have heard of distress, and we have heard of the joy of the return of the first boats of goods after the terrible end of World War II. If you haven't experienced it yourself, ask an elderly relative. If you do not have an elderly relative, ask an elderly person. If you do not find an elderly person, you may ask my family who once left war and oppression. Mr President, I would like to Trade is a question of freedom as much as a question of growth. When weapons are silenced, people meet and develop themselves in the encounter with other people. Services and goods are changed voluntarily, today in a global market as peace spreads around the world. For a liberal, there are few things that are finer. In the long term, developments are moving in the right direction, while we are now facing a liberal backlash in our environment, which threatens this very freedom. It is threatened by the left as well as by the right, by the critics of globalisation, protectionists and populist nationalists. The government wants to close borders and punish the nourishing flight. And the Swedish Democrats want to leave the EU and betray the peaceful community that has guaranteed our coffee for over 60 years. How do reducing meetings solve our future challenges? Yeah, it's hard to understand. But trade is freedom, Mr President, and freedom must be defended. Freedom of movement in the EU labour market is one of the cornerstones of the Union. Unfortunately, major challenges remain. In particular, it concerns the cross-border movement of services between Member States. Estimates show that if Member States were to fully implement the legislation already in place to increase the mobility of services, the EU's GDP could rise by over SEK 2 000 billion. Steps must now be taken to bring the Member States together behind this ambition and to fully create a single market for services. I would therefore like to support the Liberals' reservation 15 on the Services Directive. Free trade is the foundation of our prosperity in Sweden and in the industrialised countries, Mr President. Free trade leads to a more efficient management of resources and faster dissemination of technology. This is how we spread energy-efficient solutions for the benefit of both people and the climate. We are now facing the next generation of green free trade, where we have a duty to dismantle trade barriers in terms of climate-friendly goods and services. Notwithstanding President Trumps's intentions, Mr President, the government must assume its responsibilities and continue to push for an ambitious transatlantic trade agreement between the EU and the US. At the same time, we need to nurture and ratify the CETA agreement between Canada and the EU. Equally important are the ongoing trade talks with Singapore and Ghana. Every free trade agreement that is concluded benefits Swedish companies, but it primarily benefits the world's poor. It is worrying that the government's support party, the Left Party, is attacking most of these very trade agreements. We see it in the European Parliament both from the Left Party and from the Green Party. In conclusion, for time winning, I only ask for reservation 1 and, as I did before, reservation 15.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-191	Mr President, I would like to Last week – it feels like it was yesterday, because time passes fast when you have fun here in Parliament – we in the Committee on Economic Affairs had a debate on nutrition issues. I mentioned there the fact that in the government one hand does not know what the other is doing and took the example of welfare companies, particularly in health care. On the one hand, Ilmar Reepalu is allowed to propose a profit limit in healthcare and care companies, and on the other hand Minister Wikström goes abroad to market Swedish care together with Swecare. It may seem a little strange. Obviously, in some strange way, you want to limit the area of health care companies while at the same time you think it's great to export this. But it is a policy that is not connected in any way. Swedfund is a state-owned company, because it is merged with various stakeholders and financed with venture capital. But it is the state that stands for it as an aid agency, you might say, through venture capital. This is where we want to create sustainable business. One example is the company Scandinavian Care, which has built up cancer centers in different places in the world. For ten years eight cancer centers have been opened in Egypt and Ghana. Then one can itself question whether Swedish state venture capital should end up in non-democratic countries. It is, of course, a question of building up democratic organisations in these countries. The question is – and I am throwing it out quite openly – whether the Swedish state capital should be used there. Trade for aid, as it were. It is precisely aid for self-help that we think a lot of aid money should be about, and that is precisely about trade and exports. If we continue in the field of Swedish actors in welfare services, we know that they are internationally high class and that in many ways they are groundbreaking. New medical technology, innovation and new treatment methods can contribute to positive health development both locally and globally. And it provides employment, tax revenues and sufficient evidence to make new medical achievements in these Swedish companies. As a result of various freedom of choice reforms in Sweden, there are companies today, thankfully, whose services meet a great demand abroad. But, Mr President, one problem that is horizontal for these companies is the possibility of using the domestic market as a reference for procurement abroad. The many political constraints that have been built up in this sector in Sweden have limited the opportunities for them to make real export efforts, whether Minister Wikström or Damberg is involved or not. Welfare services must in some way be seen as as self-evident as exporting cars, and have been doing for many years, or steel or whatever it may be. The mechanisms of global competition are the same regardless of what we deal with. There is a great potential for Swedish welfare to contribute to the rest of the world. The development of digitalisation in most industries is progressing at a raging pace. Digitalisation shortens lead times and simplifies business in many ways. At the same time, we know that new complications arise. Steps relating to accessibility, security and law are in many cases faced with drastic changes, which place completely new demands on businesses. In some areas, healthcare has come a long way with digitalisation. There is television advertising that through an app in your mobile phone you can get direct contact with a doctor. That's great. You don't even have to go to the health center. I was in Greenland a couple of years ago. There they have developed a fantastic system to reach people living inaccessible in Greenlandic countryside via satellite telephones. While we have come a long way with digitalisation in some areas, we have fallen behind others. For example, faxes are still used in health and social services. Therefore, perhaps we should not suggest that we are role models in everything. By facilitating and supporting the export of healthcare services, Swedish companies are able to establish themselves in other countries, which contributes to the return and thereby tax revenue in Sweden. These revenues can be used to strengthen public welfare and health care and, not least, to move forward in digitalisation and the development of new services and treatments. Mr President, I would like to We know that small and medium-sized enterprises grow the most and provide the most jobs. It is not something that says that we should not be able to develop it even through better trade and export efforts. But all business starts locally. Therefore, export advisory services should also be locally and regionally available. Business Sweden has developed a network of export advisory services across the country. I hope that many small and medium-sized enterprises will benefit so that they can get out into the world with both health and care products and services. We also have a potential to attract foreign patients to Sweden for specialist care. We can help to increase the knowledge of Swedish healthcare by doctors seeing Sweden as an attractive, exciting and good country to work and live in. Of course, health business operators advocate this, but we should all share this view and see this potential.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-206	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Globalisation means that the economies of the world's countries are becoming increasingly intertwined. For a small export-dependent country like Sweden, it is important. Exports are a cornerstone of our economy and create growth, jobs and increased prosperity. When it comes to reaching the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020, Sweden's exports play a key role. The news is characterized by Trump and Brexit. What's gonna happen? Trump wants to take the United States on a more protectionist path. He's not interested in free trade. He wants American companies to trade American. The UK is now negotiating its withdrawal from the EU. There is great concern about what this will lead to for Swedish companies. The UK is today Sweden's fourth largest trading partner. Many Swedes are concerned about what is happening in the world around us. At the same time, Sweden is doing well. 150 000 more people have a job to go to since the change of government. Long-term unemployment is one of the lowest in the EU. We have 70 000 more training places. In addition, direct investment from abroad is increasing. Today, exports amount to almost half of Sweden's GDP. Many export companies are doing well, but a major challenge is to get more SMEs to step out. This is one of the priorities of the Government's export strategy. The problem with Swedish exports is that we are dependent on exports to the countries in our neighbourhood. 70% of Swedish exports go to the EU. At the same time, we see that 80% of the expected growth in the world economy will take place outside Europe. That is why we need to work towards reaching the emerging markets there. Only 10% of Swedish companies export, but there is enormous potential for small and medium-sized enterprises to dare and want to take the step out. The opportunities are great, but action is needed. Thanks to technological development and internationalisation, even a small company with the right product can sell its product or service on the international market. Since many of the new jobs are being created in SMEs, it is important that they also increase their exports. Studies indicate that SMEs starting to export also increase the number of employees. Sweden is a small market, and in order for Swedish companies to grow and employ, they need more customers worldwide. The Nordic countries and Europe will continue to be important markets, but more companies will also need to reach the growing markets in Asia, Africa and South America. When more Swedish companies are given the opportunity to export to growing economies, more jobs will be created in Sweden. In the export strategy, there are 22 concrete actions identified that the government is now working on. It is not just a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. We must not forget the big export companies in Sweden and their opportunity to win not least the big business in a global arena. It also means a lot to the Swedish economy. An important part of the export strategy is that companies that want to go out into the world should know where to turn locally. The previous speaker referred to the regional export centres. This proposal has now become a reality. There are six regional export centres around Sweden, and more are in the pipeline. The government has also made decisions to strengthen its presence in important markets. We have reopened the Consulate General in New York, and we are opening new embassies in Tunisia, the Philippines and Peru. Business Sweden also opens offices abroad in Singapore and Tehran. Mr President, I would like to There are over 150 Swedish companies represented in Canada, and many are successful. Around 21 000 people are employed throughout Sweden thanks to exports to Canada. To this figure may be added a little more than 13 000 people employed in Canadian companies in Sweden. However, exports from Sweden to Canada decreased by 23 per cent between 2006 and 2015. CETA is therefore an important free trade agreement for Sweden, not least given that the US is now turning inwards. The CETA agreement is the most ambitious, modern and comprehensive agreement that either party has ever concluded. The agreement is broad and profound. It covers, inter alia, customs, services, investment, trade procedures, public procurement, intellectual property protection, employment, environment and sustainable development. The agreement leads to the dismantling of some 99% of EU-Canada tariffs. The EU and Canada are given increased access to each other's services and investment markets. The CETA agreement will be subject to parliamentary approval for ratification. The Government will submit a proposal to the Riksdag in autumn 2017. As an export-oriented country, Sweden has great interests in promoting free and fair trade. The government is therefore working to remove barriers to trade while at the same time standing up for the environment, employees' interests and human and animal health. Trade agreements shall respect democratic decisions taken. The government is doing this in all trade agreements. Sweden should be a strong voice for free and fair trade. But just as strongly our voice will sound for the values that characterise our Swedish model: democracy, freedom, equality and justice. Trade with new parts of the world presents both challenges and opportunities. I am convinced that the international debate on trade and investment needs to be deepened and also about distribution. If the profits of globalisation end up with a few people, it is no wonder that it is called into question and leads to protectionist forces gaining a hearing. The elections in the United States were partly about this. The growth generated by globalisation must be distributed more fairly. The competitiveness of the Nordic countries shows from an international perspective that openness can be reconciled with security and equal distribution.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-226	Mr President, I would like to Trade policy is one of the areas where the Moderates and the Social Democrats are closest. We have a traditional, rather classic, sensible and practical view of trade – it enriches. I would like to point to Anna Wallén's statement on distribution. Trade is the best distributional policy action one can carry out countries and people-to-people in the world. However, there are a few things in which we differ. I am thinking of the export of welfare services. The government talks about this sometimes, not in big words, but it says welfare services from time to time. This is one of the most undiscovered and untapped opportunities for Sweden and Swedish companies – to be able to go on export. If we look at the statistics on trade between the UK and Sweden, we see that it is precisely the trade in services that stands out. It is considerably larger than the trade in goods. In order for Swedish companies engaged in welfare services to be able to export, one thing is needed: references from a home market that works. But that's exactly what it's not doing in Sweden. Together with the Left Party, the government and the Social Democrats have taken action to limit opportunities for welfare service companies. How do Anna Wallén and the Social Democrats believe that Swedish welfare exports will increase if they are not allowed to sell at home?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-231	Mr President, I would like to I take the first few words to heart. The Moderate Hans Rothenberg called a Social Democrat practical and sensible. That's good – we need to praise each other sometimes too. When it comes to opportunities for Swedish welfare companies to go to export, I think it is absolutely important. Several of the free trade agreements we are negotiating, including CETA, open up the possibility to participate in public procurement, which is important. Mr Rothenberg also says that we have a home market for welfare companies that do not work. I can absolutely agree with that, Mr President. It is about people who are going to use the services of welfare companies not being entitled to certain parts. We have examples of children who do not receive the help and support they need at school because welfare companies prioritise profits rather than providing the support to which children and young people are entitled. The government wants to limit profits in welfare. We think that the tax money should be used for what they are meant to go to, namely those who need care and the young people who go to school. We think that is important. We do not want to ban these companies from existing in Sweden, as the Alliance often wants to suggest. In a debate we had last week, there was also a lot of focus on this, and it made it sound like there is no way for these companies to operate. Is Hans Rothenberg completely satisfied with how it sees the welfare sector in Sweden, with the private welfare companies?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-237	Mr President, I would like to That was one of the most expected answers I could get to my question. The Social Democrats never admit that they are counter-productive, but they put a trap, they stop and they make it more difficult. At the same time, it is said that it is still possible to conduct welfare activities privately. But it's a lot harder. It's actually easier to do it abroad. Therefore, it would be interesting if the Swedish Minister for Trade and the Government took seriously advantage of the ambitions and opportunities that Swedish welfare companies have to be able to go on export. One thing that concerns me about the Social Democrats is their friends in the government and support for the government. It is not the open, tolerant and permissive attitude of the Green Party and, above all, the Left Party. The left side is the third brake wheel on the vehicle that Stefan Löfven is trying to drive at steering speed forward. We heard this earlier in the post from Left Party Håkan Svenneling. He even distrusts the National Board of Trade's analysis of the CETA agreements. To blame that it is holiday time when you are doing a survey and that you are short of time you may be able to do, but it is not the same as the quality of the report being poor. I have been looking at the assignments that the National Board of Trade has received from the government since 2007. Something happened at the turn of the year 2014/ 2015. From earlier offensive missions looking at opportunities, the defensive mission is characterized by the Green Party's and Left Party's critical attitude to trade. I have a special question: How does it feel to have such friends to rule Sweden with?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-242	Mr President, I would like to This debate is important. I have just explained the government's relationship with free trade and the opportunities that Swedish companies have to go on export and so on. And so you go in and drop to a lower level, but when Hans Rothenberg does, I like to catch on. You asked how it feels with such friends, Hans Rothenberg, but perhaps we should look out at your side of the Chamber and think about the friends who are in the Alliance, if there is any alliance at all. These are new bids, and there are discussions in the newspapers about who does what and so on. I think Hans Rothenberg will be more concerned about his so-called friends in the Alliance and the discussions that are taking place in his own party right now. He should focus more on it and be less concerned about government cooperation.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-244	Mr President, I would like to As the representative of the Left Party in this debate, I do not feel like Anna Wallén's friend, but rather as the blowtorch on the government that I want to be in the opposition party that we are, even if we agree on the common budget and stand behind it together. Mr President, I would like to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström said in the 2015 Declaration on Foreign Policy that a feminist foreign policy is now being shaped with the aim of combating discrimination against women, improving women's conditions and contributing to peace and development. "A feminist foreign policy will permeate the work of the entire foreign administration and aims to strengthen women's rights, increase women's access to resources and increase women's representation." ..................................................... Iran is undoubtedly one of the hardest and most authoritarian dictatorships of our time. Human rights violations are numerous, extensive and systematic. The oppression of women is systematic and permeates all parts of Iranian society. In 2015 alone, at least 977 executions were carried out, according to Amnesty. The World Trade Union Confederation ranks in its 2016 Global Rights Index the situation in a total of 141 countries. Latin America is still the continent where the violence against trade unionists is at its worst, and Colombia is once again tops the list of most murders of trade unionists. The question I am considering is the efforts made by the government in these countries, in particular arms exports to Colombia, but also trade with Iran. How does this really rhyme with the foreign policy declaration? Is this Sweden's trade policy? Is this a feminist trade policy?
i-JU2ZVtPPZVbVJJmGxTp36v	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your question, Håkan Svenneling! I often get this question from people when I travel in Sweden. There has been a lot of attention about the government's various trips to Iran. My answer then and now is that the government thinks it is extremely important that we have a dialogue with these countries. It is above all a question of trade creating and building bridges between people. Instead of isolating Iran completely, as has been done for a long time, we see an opportunity for us in Sweden, which has a feminist government, to be there to discuss these issues. All the meetings held by the government and other representatives in Iran have highlighted human rights issues and women's rights. We also believe that Swedish companies with a Swedish corporate culture can contribute to this work. One small step along the way is that there is currently a photo exhibition in Iran called Swedish Dads. I don't know if Håkan Svenneling knows about it. The exhibition describes Swedish fathers who are at home and on parental leave to show the great equality that Sweden has in relation to many other countries.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-252	Mr President, I would like to I think it is a good thing that the government wants to engage in dialogue with different countries. I think it's an important way to work for a positive development in the world. But it is also about the way in which this dialogue is conducted. There I think the government deserves some criticism. You can certainly engage in feminist politics. But a lot has been about symbolic politics – showing up with a female delegation when Iran shows up with a male delegation. That's nice. But the question is why you should appear at all on the Iranian playing field and why you should accept their invitation and go to a dictatorship instead of having a dialogue in an international arena. I believe that it is fundamentally thought that trade should create democratic rights. The problem is that it is very rarely that we have seen such clear results of trade. The clearest example of this is China. It has always been said that China will become more democratic and better at human rights the more we deal with them. And we are trading more than ever with China. At the same time, however, we see China's development going in the wrong direction. There is talk in China of China building a new Chinese wall. It simply builds a wall digitally against the outside world to monitor its citizens. I really wonder how one thinks about Swedish trade policy, and how it can be feminist and contribute to positive development. I am very concerned that the situation of supporting Iran's dictatorship and other types of dictatorships is being put in place by maintaining trade and by maintaining the existing order, thereby preventing women from gaining stronger rights in these countries. Then I think, unfortunately, that fine photographic exhibitions will make too small an impression in relation to the money that we are channeling into the Iranian dictatorship.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-257	Mr President, I would like to I can say that I and Håkan Svenneling have slightly different views on how we should behave when it comes to trade policy. But I stand by what I said in my first reply, namely that I think it is important that we build bridges through trade and that we have talks with Iran. One might think it was symbolic politics that we went to Iran with a completely female delegation. But I still think it is very important to show what Swedish society looks like. Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. We have a lot of women in leading positions – half of the government consists of women and so on. I think it is important to show off when we start working with a country where women have almost no rights. Håkan Svenneling has previously criticised other parts, including trade delegations. I had hoped that he would bring it up a little today. There I think that Håkan Svenneling has some reasonable criticism of the need for more transparency as to who participates in the government's trade delegations and what the purpose is for the Swedish companies participating in the trade delegations that travel to different countries. There are great opportunities, and there is a great deal of competence among our Swedish companies. However, I think it is important to increase transparency and show which are part of these trade delegations and what kind of business they are there to promote.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-260	Mr President, I would like to Both Prime Minister Stefan Löfven and Minister for Enterprise Mikael Damberg have been hard on the UK in the media. On the other hand, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson stressed yesterday that it is important that we oppose protectionism. As I said in my speech, the United Kingdom has presented an action plan to leave Europe in a reciprocal way. Then my question to the Social Democrats is: is the government prepared to accommodate Britain in order not to create protectionism and not to harm European trade?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-262	Mr President, I would like to I thank Johan Nissinen for the question. I and the government believe that Britain's withdrawal from the EU is an extremely difficult issue. It is today that the UK is submitting its formal request for withdrawal from the EU, and the negotiations are about to begin. It has never happened before in the history of the European Union that a country has left the Union. It is extremely important for Sweden to have good relations with the UK. As I said in my speech, Britain is Sweden's fourth largest trading partner today. We have many Swedish companies in the UK, and many Swedes live there. We have said that we really want to be involved in supporting the UK to get as good an agreement as possible with the European Union. But it is also difficult to give them a too good agreement, because it would send signals to other EU countries: look how good Britain was doing. We can also leave the EU and take the raisins out of the cake. I cannot therefore say exactly where we are going to land, but I can assure Johan Nissinen that the government is struggling to have good relations with the UK, which is very important for Sweden.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-267	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased to hear that the Social Democrats nevertheless have such an open attitude that we should try to do this as well as possible. But from what the action plan itself shows, I cannot see that they are picking some raisins out of the cake if you meet their demands, but it is quite reciprocal from both sides. I therefore believe that it will be a fair deal for both. I therefore hope that this can be met almost 100% and that it is accepted that it is indeed the voters in the UK who have chosen to leave the European Union. Democracy is still at the core. And we as democrats must respect that.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-269	Mr President, I would like to We must absolutely respect the decision made by the United Kingdom and relate to it. The negotiations will begin today. What I see as major challenges is that Britain's exit negotiations must be completed within two years and that, in parallel, a free trade agreement should be negotiated with the EU. Normal free trade negotiations can take five to six years. I therefore see it as a huge challenge for all of this to be able to meet in such a short time. But I also keep my fingers crossed to make it as good as possible for everyone involved.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-271	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is dependent on trade with other countries. Almost half of Sweden's GDP comes from Swedish exports. About 1 million people in our country work in companies that export goods or services. From the fact that we have mainly exported goods, services exports have become increasingly important, and the rate of increase is very high. Today, about 70% of our exports are goods exports, and the remaining 30% are service exports. The most important goods in exports last year were workshop goods, such as machinery, electronics, telecommunications and road vehicles. Medicines and products derived from raw materials, such as iron, steel, paper and oil products, are also important export goods for Sweden. In the service area, it is business services, telecommunications, data and information services, which dominate closely followed by travel, i.e. tourism within Sweden or through Swedish travel and tourism companies. Nor should we forget that we are good in the field of intellectual property. It is a large Swedish export product. Foreign companies pay to use Swedish rights, patents and licenses. The largest share of exports goes to EU countries. Last year Germany peaked as the single largest recipient country. Then came Norway and the United States. Germany is also top in terms of our exports of services followed by Norway and the Netherlands. We are not just dependent on exports. We also need to import. Our goods-exporting companies need materials and parts to produce their products that are then exported. They also need to buy business services such as marketing, research and development. We also import goods and services for Swedish consumption. We all know that some of these imports – and exports – worldwide are questionable. There's some junk being shipped that we wouldn't have to trade with. Some goods are also being shipped that we ourselves could consume more environmentally and economically in our country. International trade is important to us today for jobs and livelihoods. But international trade is also important in other respects. Unfortunately, history has shown how already rich countries have enriched themselves at the expense of other countries. Scrapping-free companies use inadequate legislation in other countries to make money or their size to exert pressure on countries in various decision-making processes. It's not okay, of course. The world's resources need to be distributed and used more fairly. Today's not fair. International trade therefore needs to be regulated. The starting point must be that trade should support democratic development and long-term ecological, social and economic sustainability and safeguard fair resource and environmental space. Only it can secure peace and prosperity in the world. International trade also enables new services and products that can help solve poverty and environmental and climate threats to be exploited by more people. Negotiations have been under way for a number of years on how to ease exports and imports of green goods and services. Unfortunately, these negotiations have now stood still for a while. It is important that they get new momentum and that the government is active on this issue. I am pleased that the committee shares the view that fair and free trade does not stand against each other, but must go hand in hand and be followed together. I am also pleased that the government promised in its foreign policy declaration that Sweden will take a leading role in the implementation of the UN's global goals for sustainable development. We have also heard the Government stress the importance of standing up for the environment, human and animal health and the interests of workers and that trade agreements should respect democratically-adopted decisions. In committee, we have also noted that fair trade has been given a more prominent role in the European Commission's new trade strategy. That is a step in the right direction. More steps need to be taken. The government's orientation in trade policy, export promotion and investment promotion and export strategy responds to the committee's expectations. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-284	Madam President, I would like I believe that the CETA agreement with Canada is bad because large companies will be able to sue states. It focuses to a very large extent on regulatory cooperation and not so much on tariff reductions. It risks reducing the protection of the environment, climate and consumers in the future, which should be a core issue for the Green Party. It also has a negative listing of services, which, if simplified, means that liberalisation and liberalisation become the norm and not the exception. It will make it more difficult to take back profits in welfare or if, in future, we no longer want to operate rail traffic as if it were a market. When the European Parliament voted on the CETA agreement with Canada, the four members of the Green Party voted against the agreement. Parliamentarian Max Andersson has said: After reading the agreement, it is clear that CETA risks limiting our political room for manoeuvre when it comes to protecting the environment, consumers and trade union rights. In Sweden, however, the tone has been different. Here, the Green Party has been in favour of the CETA agreement. The party leader Gustav Fridolin has, among other things, defended the CETA agreement in a change of line here in Parliament with Jonas Sjöstedt in January. The environmental party's foreign policy spokesperson Pernilla Stålhammar has also said: The environmental party is behind the CETA agreement. Someone who has not been in favour of the CETA agreement is the Member of Parliament Carl Schlyter. He's the next speaker here next. He has said: renegotiate if you want to call yourself red-green. It cannot be easy to be an environmentalist voter or a Member of Parliament. Except that you have changed all your views before the elections to the directly opposite after the elections, it does not seem quite clear what the Green Party thinks on certain issues. What does the Green Party think about the CETA agreement?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-289	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Svenneling, for that question! There is great concern among our members and several people who are active in the Green Movement that certain elements of the agreement should make it more difficult to protect the environment and democratically made decisions. You have to take these concerns seriously. So does the government. The Green Party, together with the other government party Social Democrats, has therefore decided to give the National Board of Trade a new mandate to carry out in-depth impact assessments of the effects of the agreement in a wide range of areas, in particular the areas that our own members and all other critics of the agreement have pointed out as worrying. That report shall be presented by 1 May at the latest. I am waiting with great interest to receive it. In anticipation of it, I do not really see any reason to give any clearer information than that I want to see that basis first. Then I would like to make more comments.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-292	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Board of Trade has recently been commissioned to review the risks associated with CETA. What the mission has been criticised for is that it will not do any consultation or to a greater extent ask the environmental movement and other non-profit movements what they think. When you read the assignment, you see that it is very focused on the state authorities and what the state should do. Now it seems that the Kommerskollegium has opened up a little. Among other things, representatives of the environmental movement have been invited to a discussion. But it is very unclear how the environmental movement can influence the review that the National Board of Trade does. I would like an answer to why you let the National Board of Trade get the assignment instead of doing what you usually do in Sweden when the government submits proposals, v i amends our laws and so on, then you have a real consultation where everyone who wants to be for or against or think something can say theirs. The government will then have a better basis for presenting a proposal this autumn. I am also thinking about the great concern that Jonas Eriksson describes. What do you know, Jonas? How much concern do you feel about the CETA agreement? Do you feel so much concern that if the review by the National Board of Trade concludes that it is negative for the environment, animal health or consumers, is a serious enough concern to say no to the CETA agreement?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-296	Madam President, I would like There were many questions in the speech. You started by mentioning, Håkan Svenneling, that you usually send for a referral. Pre-negotiated contracts are not usually sent for referrals. This government has not done so, and it has not done so in the past. Instead, it tries to engage in dialogue with different actors throughout the process during the negotiation process when negotiating this type of agreement. The mission given to the National Board of Trade takes this seriously. They have been tasked with analysing the CETA agreement on investment protection provisions including the court settlement, public procurement, environmental and health issues, trade in services and fora for regulatory cooperation. It will analyse the provisions on investment protection and the impact of the court settlement on Swedish legislation, Swedish policy space, Swedish levels of protection and, in particular, the possibility of introducing strict legislation on renewable energy, natural and environmental considerations in mining operations, chemicals, privacy issues and animal welfare without requiring compensation from investors. In addition, the possibility of establishing or maintaining monopolies and other utilities will be analysed. It is only a quarter of the mission that I am now reading. I have great confidence that the National Board of Trade will handle in a very good and professional way the views that come in, among other things, from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Chemicals Agency, the Swedish State Energy Agency, the National Agricultural Agency, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, the Swedish Medical Products Agency, the Swedish Procurement Authority, the Swedish Competition Authority, the Swedish Food Administration and other relevant authorities. Once we have received these documents, we can also consider what possible measures need to be taken to secure what is important for us in Sweden.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-300	Madam President, I would like I asked a question in a previous change of line to Anna Wallén of the Social Democrats: How does it feel to have such friends? I think that the last line shift showed so clearly, more clearly than I could ever describe myself, how it bursts into the government base. Jonas Eriksson gave a nice speech. A lot of what he says I can do. It was a description of what the situation is like, and a pretty good description. Some things I can't do. It is only to be noted that it is the poor countries of the world that have the highest tariffs. It is the poor countries that would benefit best from free trade. I think that the Green Party should take note and push harder. But the environmental party in parliament and the environmental party in the world are sometimes two different parties. Perhaps we will have a look at it in the next post. I choose to focus on Jonas Eriksson, Group Leader for the Environmental Party in the Riksdag. You're the original Green Party in this debate. The Green Party chooses protectionism over prosperity, openness and trade in the European Parliament. When the CETA agreement with Canada was voted on in February, the four members of the Green Party voted 'no', and unfortunately this was not the first time. We just heard a discussion between Svenneling and Eriksson about Kommerskollegium and whether they will investigate and find out what it really is like. The EU and Canada – two friendly powers in the world – want more free trade. And the Green Party and the Left Party are doing everything they can to complicate, investigate and delay. Why are you so sceptical about the CETA agreement and the National Board of Trade?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-304	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry I was on my way from the pulpit, Hans Rothenberg! Of course, I want a change of line with you, and I am pleased that we have largely a common understanding of trade policy. Protectionism is not something the Green Party stands for, nor nationalism. We are really in favour of open borders and that people should be able to move globally, work and seek out other cultures and enjoy and exchange them. I can also be clear that we have confidence in Swedish authorities and works. However, we are not prepared to buy the pig in the bag. It goes without saying that we must objectively review all types of agreements that we enter into as a state or for that matter as individuals, but now it is the Swedish parliament and the government's work we are talking about. It is extremely important to prepare various decisions. There is also a legal requirement for this. For my part, I am pleased that we have the Green Party in the government, which takes the processing requirement seriously and ensures that we make decisions on sound evidence.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-308	Madam President, I would like It's good to have your feet on, Jonas Eriksson. It's good to have evidence. Since 2007, the National Board of Trade has been commissioned by the Government to investigate Swedish business interests in relation to Canada and to review economic relations with Canada. In addition, they have been tasked with preparing the start of negotiations with Canada. These are offensive missions. Since 2014, as I have mentioned before, it has been a much more sceptical line. This should look at the implications for animal health and democratic decision-making. So has the National Board of Trade. I have great respect for the National Board of Trade reports even if they are produced during holiday time. I have great respect for their conclusions, which are based on competence and quality since 1642. This is a free trade agreement that has been mangled many times in the shadow of the transatlantic partnership TTIP with the United States, and it is one of the best free trade agreements ever. The only thing I can be sceptical about is the new dispute settlement mechanism, which is no better than the old one – ISDS. However, despite the fact that this agreement has been negotiated and will come to a decision in Parliament in the autumn, you still want to continue to investigate and risk a nail. You want to continue to find loopholes and little flaws in the corners. I understand that you in the Left Party want to dig deep into this puddle. You are against big business, you are against a market economy and you are against free trade. But I think that the Green Party should at some point also put its foot down and say: now it is done. Let's make a decision about CETA. Now we stand up for our government, and now we stand up for Sweden.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-313	Madam President, I would like One of the conclusions drawn by the National Board of Trade in its report, which was made in the summer of last year, was the need for further analysis. That's what you say yourself at the National Board of Trade: Time has been too short, and you have only been able to do an overall analysis. The analysis was positive as far as the agreement was concerned. It was estimated that Sweden's ability to make democratic decisions would not be affected or changed. Ownership would not change to any extent. There were lots of chill effects that you could not see any great risk of either. But the National Board of Trade stressed that it was a general analysis, and it was said itself that there was a need for in-depth analysis. We take this seriously, and we have also ensured that such analyses are under way. I don't know if Hans is able to answer this, but I think I can see a difference between ISDS and ICS. What you said a little surprises me. It is more about the form of how to resolve disputes and not what to argue about. The more important thing is really what you can argue about. It's the first step. Should you be able to sue at all or not to sue? Then the question is, where is the lawsuit going to take place, and how is it going to happen? In fact, I think there is much more to discuss, but that does not allow the time in this shift.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-316	Madam President, I would like Trade policy is the title of what we are talking about today. But trade policy has become something else. I believe that in principle all parties could agree that trade and free trade have benefited Sweden historically. But what is commerce today? It used to be customs duties, quotas and quantitative limits. What we are talking about today is something quite different. There are some remaining duties for both Canada and the United States, and there are some protectionist features left in some legislations. For example, they are strict with other countries when they try to participate in procurement. But most of the new agreements are something completely new – something quite different. That is why I do not understand Mr Rothenberg's concern about analysing this fundamentally. Look at the 65 bilateral investment agreements we have before! They're 8, 12 and 20 pages. I think there's a 30-page deal. Principles were agreed: we want to trade with each other, and if there is discrimination, we should take it to court. But now we are talking about agreements of 1 600 or 2 000 pages that will regulate in detail how municipalities, county councils and states can or cannot regulate their activities. It is something completely different from previous free trade. This is not free trade. This is detailed trade, which may benefit some or others. I fully agree with the committee's assessment of my motion on impact assessments: we are going to study this carefully. The question is not whether there are differences of opinion in the Green Party. The question is whether there are differences of opinion in the Moderates. Some people don't want to know what they're doing, and others want to know what they're doing. What, then, are we talking about in concrete terms? There are some who say that this is so good and that there is no danger. But the National Board of Trade hasn't even answered all the questions. Which specific activities fall within the scope of the exemptions in Section B on market access and Section C on national treatment? How are the exceptions to be interpreted when it comes to liberalisation? For example, the Swedish National Board of Trade's analysis of the CETA agreement states that all service activities regulated at municipal, local and county level are outside of the commitments made by Sweden in CETA. However, this exception applies only to those activities which are currently non-conforming, that is, not in accordance with the agreement. They do not need to be included in Annex 1 on commitments and exemptions. But one can imagine that one makes a decision that reduces conformity with the agreement, for example at local level, and does not have a specific exception in annex 2 where one says that one wants to do things in the future that reduce competition. This is not guaranteed by the exemptions. There is no consensus here. We don't know. The local level is only explicitly excluded in the event that a measure at this level maintains an already divergent measure or implements a measure involving an even greater degree of liberalisation. The fact that the Moderates want to give a free pass to all liberalisations is nothing new. But social democrats, environmentalists and left-wing parties would like to know that if we wanted to do so, we could return railway maintenance to the government. We would like to know that if we want to introduce a regulation of profits in welfare, it is not impossible to do so by an agreement and anyone other than the Swedish Parliament can decide on it. We would like to know that, for example, a proposal on mining tax is possible without breaching the agreement. Is it unreasonable for us to want to ensure that we have that margin of regulation when there are doubts about the exemption of the agreement, which in part provides such possibilities but does not guarantee them, and how to interpret these articles? I think it goes without saying that a country should ensure that it has these possibilities before saying yes to the agreement. Would it be a disaster if the agreement were a little delayed? No. Even the calculations made by the Commission do not say that the CETA agreement would produce more than 0.03% in one-off but permanent effects on growth. 0.03% is actually a fairly positive and high figure, because it is based on the most ambitious implementation of the agreement. In addition, a method called CGE, which has been criticised for often overestimating its economic effects, has been used. In fact, I believe that it would ensure that we can maintain the democratic choices we make here in Parliament, to wait a few months for perhaps 0.03% growth. It's worth the wait. So impatient are not environmentalists, nor are others, I hope. Another example where it becomes problematic to know how to interpret the agreement is in terms of labour law and sustainable development. There is an opportunity to adopt measures that strengthen labour law and sustainable development, but they are conditional on general compliance with the agreement. And in general compliance with the agreement and according to the jurisdiction of the OECD, there is a problem, namely that the demands made should be legitimate. In a democracy, I think it should be the parliament that decides what is legitimate and what is not, but in this case, if there is a conflict, it is an arbitration panel that does so. Another doubt in the Kommerskollegium's analysis that we should deepen is that they say that there are general exceptions when it comes to school, healthcare and care at EU level – then Sweden has made a specific national exception for the school – but the problem is that the possibility of going to the arbitration court concerns commitments in Chapters B, C and D. This means that even if these sectors have adequate exceptions, the dispute settlement mechanism can still be used for them. Does no one here think it would be good to find out how to ensure protection? Yes, the committee proposed it, and I think that is the only reasonable position here. The number of arbitration procedures is increasing. In 2015, they set a record record of 70 new procedures. So far, although Sweden has many agreements with many countries, Madagascar, Armenia or others have not sued us. This may be because their companies may not have access to lawyers who cost $1,000 an hour to the same extent as companies in larger countries. But we have seen a tendency in recent years that more and more Western countries are now actually being sued. If TISA, TTIP and CETA are implemented, this does not mean that we add 3 agreements to 65, but the calculations show that it actually triples the chances of suing our country. Then it is good to ensure that what they can sue us for is limited to what is not the exception, where we have not tried by legal means and to enter everything right in all annexes? It is good to be able to ensure that those exceptions are real and cannot be undermined by legal proceedings. I think it is perfectly reasonable for us to find out before we make decisions here in Parliament. I thank the committee for their support for the proposals. The motion is rejected, but the idea has been accepted that we should know what we are doing before we sign such complex agreements.
i-XZgiLSU2yBNZHbGK9W2xZL	Madam President, I would like Will you vote against the CETA agreement in the Swedish Parliament, Carl Schlyter?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-332	Madam President, I would like I can't tell the future. I do not even know if the agreement will ever come to the Swedish Parliament. It will be ratified by all countries. The CETA agreement will apply provisionally to those parts over which the EU has competence even when the Canadian Parliament approves it. The rest will be treated here. That's exactly what I wanted, so everyone should feel safe with that answer. I have great doubts about this agreement. It's not a secret. I have read this quite carefully and been on the European Parliament's Trade Committee, and I recognise several problems with this agreement from previous trade agreements. So, yes, I'm skeptical. But how I am going to vote I cannot know today, because I do not know what the government's proposal on the matter is. So we will have to wait until it arrives.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-334	Madam President, I would like Alternative facts and fake news I mentioned in my introduction. That is precisely what the world is plagued by. There is a lack of trust in the world. That deficiency has built up scepticism against the values that have built our welfare. That is why we see Brexit, and that is why we see doubts between the USA and the Pacific as regards their trade agreements. That's why we see a lot of suspicions. This is not a good development in the world. It is not a good development when you want to turn around and turn on what is the good forces and see the dark in every detail. The man with the horns in his forehead, the goat's feet and the two-edged tail always looks in the details to find the problems. I have followed Carl Schlyter and his crusade to review and nail danger virtually all trade agreements that are under negotiation. From the day he entered the Parliament and we ended up in the EU Council together, we have met in corridors and changed words, thoughts and opinions about these agreements. I have never heard Carl Schlyter say anything good, something positive, about free trade agreements, least of all about agreements between the friendly country of Canada and the EU. What's said is always critical. For many years, Carl Schlyter has had the opportunity, with his own investigative service, to reflect on his own positions and to come up with an opinion, but even now Carl Schlyter does not know that he is really against this.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-338	Madam President, I would like I find it a little strange to call one's opponent in this Chamber a demon with horns on his forehead. I think it's a very bad fighting technique to do that. I would have liked you to have actually advocated your own ideals and met me on the subject, Mr Rothenberg. I asked: Can you guarantee that the exceptions that we have made in annex 1 and 2 are applicable in those municipalities that might want to change in an operation? Can you answer that instead of dazzling about the devil? And can you answer my question instead if the exceptions in Article 89(1) are working or not? Can you answer whether the exemption for labour law and sustainable development will apply as it is intended when it is conditional on the things in the OECD's previous practice that I am not alone in doubt about? Even if you think it's negative that you cave yourself down, I'll fully admit: Yes, I'm a nerd, and I'm proud of it. I like to cave into the details. I don't see that there's anything devilish about it, but it's just good. I want to know the effects of the decisions I make. That I cannot answer how I will vote is because I do not know what the bill will look like. That's not weird, is it? On the other hand, I think that you should respond instead to the arguments which are, in fact, concrete and correct and which I am not alone in. Hundreds of professors of international trade law have criticised the new agreements. Why don't you be a little curious? Why don't you read the details a little? It's exciting and interesting to know, isn't it? I would rather have an answer from you: How do you intend to resolve the built-in conflicts that a large number of scientists have pointed out? ( THIRD VICE TALMANN: Carl Schlyter's questions must be considered rhetorical because Mr Rothenberg has no more lines. )
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-343	Madam President, I would like You would almost like to share your time with Mr Rothenberg today; it is very interesting to follow this debate. It is also interesting, Madam President, to hear Carl Schlyter. I very much appreciate his deep dive into the CETA agreement, along with the Committee on Economic Affairs. It is interesting when we discuss details and also see what effect they can have. I can also understand Mr Rothenberg's concern that the party that is going to present the bill that he very much wants to say yes to actually moving its position today, from what Mrs Pernilla said in the February debate on foreign policy: Today both Jonas Eriksson and Carl Schlyter have made a clear position transfer and say: We do not know, we have not decided, we will think. We will read an impact assessment coming on 1 May. It is a rather large movement of positions, I would say, for a party which, on this issue, has gone and flown a bit like a wind flute. You don't really know where the Green Party stands. And after today, we probably know even less. I think that is positive in itself – you can actually imagine listening to the criticism of the CETA agreement that exists. I met one of Sweden's trade policy experts, and he said that it is in the details. That is where the problems and what needs to be considered are. That is why I appreciate Carl Schlyter's nerdy with regard to the various details; I think it is very important. I also think it is a good thing that an impact assessment is being carried out. I don't mind. However, I have criticism of the impact assessment that Jonas Eriksson talked about a lot, and who should speak – it is only government agencies. Carl Schlyter is himself run from the environmental movement. I wonder what it feels like when the environmental movement is not allowed to express its criticism of the CETA agreement.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-349	Madam President, I would like You brought up a few different things. First of all, I just want to make it clear that what the Green Party here in Parliament thinks about trade policy is what Jonas Eriksson says. He is ultimately responsible for politics. If someone else has a different shade, it is a personal addition to that basic attitude, because it is Jonas Eriksson who is responsible for our trade policy; there should be no doubt about that. So if you want to know what the Green Party thinks, it is Jonas Eriksson who answers. If Pernilla says one thing and I'm another, it's our personal touch on the opinion, and I think that's liberating. Are we going to start throwing at each other here because we're not all robots that repeat points of speech? The voters vote for us. There are even individual elections in Sweden in order for voters to get their personal touch, and I think that is only positive. Who wants to engage politically if, when you finally get elected to the finest parish in Sweden, a parrot should sit and repeat the points of speech? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I do not want to live in such a democracy! I just think that's healthy. Now I was losing my way on your second question, because I got so involved in the first one. You may not be completely ignorant, Håkan Svenneling, or perhaps you are, but I had a dialogue with the Minister for Trade in this Chamber, where I made the same point. This is a complex agreement of a new kind – although there is one in a similar style in Korea and it is being done in several other countries. It is therefore important that people with detailed knowledge – there are, fortunately, many nerds here in society, who have something to add – have an opportunity to record. The Minister of Commerce then said that we do not usually do that, but I do not think we usually approve investment agreements that are this extensive. Then maybe you can change what you usually do.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-354	Madam President, I would like Schlyter certainly cannot be accused of being a parrot in this House, but you are obviously a person who stands for your opinions and what you believe in. However, I get a little confused when the line is that what Jonas Eriksson says is what applies. One wonders what the many environmentalists who speak out in this debate think. You mentioned yourself and Pernilla Stålhammar, but we also have Max Andersson, who is in the European Parliament. What does what he says mean for the Green Party's views? And so there is your own party leader, Gustav Fridolin, who, during the party leader debate in January, defended CETA almost harder than anyone else has in this House. If it isn't Gustav Fridolin but Jonas Eriksson I should listen to? Is it his views that apply to the opinion of the Green Party? In fact, I do not really know what the Green Party thinks exactly, although I think I have received all the arguments. We don't usually do this, and we should do it differently. I think it is good that Mr Schlyter is lying on the Minister for Trade that we should do differently. I really think that we should do differently in Sweden precisely on the issue of the CETA agreement. We are so stuck in what Mr Schlyter himself raised in his opening speech: we are all fundamentally in favour of free trade. We all want to see trade; it has served Sweden well. But that must also happen on certain premises, and we are fundamentally changing these premises in Sweden right now. Then you also have to analyse it. The problem has been that we did not want that kind of factual debate in Sweden. Our debate is quite different from the debate in Germany, Austria, the United Kingdom or the Netherlands. I think that's very serious. Perhaps we are now getting a better debate in Sweden; I hope that will be the case. But we still see authorities in Sweden that produce pure pamphlets for one opinion and one truth.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-360	Madam President, I would like I don't know if I can help you, Håkan Svenneling, to be less confused. We have separate elections to the European Parliament, and Max Andersson is elected in that election. So what he's saying is what he went to elections on. We have a minister, Gustav Fridolin, who represents the government's line, and I don't think the difference is that big compared to what Jonas said. The government's line too, as the Social Democrats have said here, is that free trade is good and that we believe in this very much but want to ensure that the possibilities for regulation remain. I didn't hear Gustav's speech, but that's pretty much what the government says. I don't think it's that big a difference. You need to be thoughtful. If I add a more critical dimension, it is an opinion shared by many in the environmental movement, many in the Green Party and many in the European Green Party. It is no wonder that this opinion is also represented here in the Swedish Parliament. I know that you, like me, are worried about many parts of the agreements. We want to be sure that we in the Swedish Parliament do not make a mistake in voting on this, whether we vote yes or no, so that we know what we get and do not buy the pig in the bag. The problem with the agreements is that the bag is so large and the content so difficult. It would be good to glare a little bit on the bag and check what's inside so we know what we get in the bargain. I think that everyone here should do that, and that is actually what we are voting for today; that is what the committee has decided.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-364	Madam President, I would like I am not going to question Carl Schlyter's competence in this area, which far exceeds my own in terms of trade issues and trade agreements. Unfortunately, I have not had the opportunity to read every word of these agreements to the letter. Then I might have been able to respond to Carl Schlyter on a completely different level. But I still dare to ask how Carl Schlyter thinks about the scare tactics I feel he used in his previous speech in the speaker's chair. Carl Schlyter says: Trade agreements regulate Sweden's position on how we should relate to welfare companies or railway maintenance, whether we should continue to decide on it and so on. I don't think it's consistent with the truth. Carl Schlyter has been very keen to refer questions to other Members about exactly where a paragraph stands. We would be limited in being able to decide for ourselves whether welfare companies or railway maintenance, as Carl Schlyter mentioned here.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-368	Madam, take the lman! Thank you for asking. Perhaps I did a quick briefing in the speaker's chair because I wanted to make so much time. The agreement is structured in such a way that for the first time ever there is a negative list. In all previous trade agreements there has been a positive list, that is, if you want market access, you should explicitly write it. This is the first agreement where there is a negative list. Liberalisation is the principle on which it is based. If you don't want it in any area, you have to enter it. It's like an exception instead of a rule. Even if such an exception has been entered, the problem arises that it is not watertight. According to the tradition of the past, the activities falling within the scope of the derogations have not been clarified. They have been the subject of extensive academic debate. At times, within the framework of the WTO, a limited interpretation has been applied in which only public services which are considered to have a fundamental role in the exercise of state authority, such as police, are certainly covered. Such an interpretation would exclude a number of public services, such as health care and education, from the scope of this exception. However, there are alternative interpretations that have also varied over time. It is worth mentioning that Sweden has carried out a number of liberalisations over the last decade that allow public activities to operate in markets that also involve private and commercial operators. This applies, for example, to health care, school and care. The exceptions are formulated in such a way that they are watertight if there is no competition. If there is a competitive situation, it sometimes takes over. Since we have invited activities as we have done in Sweden, which in some cases is unique in the EU, there is the possibility that these exceptions do not cover those sectors.
i-2AM8FcRbqQRTyc5DGapcnu	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carl Schlyter, for that clarification! My supplementary question is then how negative is to be interpreted. Unfortunately, I feel like you're becoming like the people you hang out with. It is a saying that shows that you choose what you read and what facts you share. You can choose to read all trade agreements very critically. I'm sure Carl Schlyter has evidence of that. But you can also choose to read most positive things if you think that the opposite of trade in the world would mean so much more problems and more wars than we have seen so far. Nevertheless, the EU has regulated certain areas, and it should also be possible for Carl Schlyter to recognise that he has been in the European Parliament. Without a democratic assembly at that level, we would have had even worse conditions, not least for the peace work in Europe. Therefore, it becomes a bit like when you call for the wolf too many times, that the credibility of Carl Schlyter's argumentation becomes so negative that you finally can't take it to heart. I find that very boring. Among all the grains of suspicion, there are surely also grains of truth.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-377	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that reminder. My own self-image is that I always want to be positive-oriented and solution-oriented. But then I end up in the trade agreements, and then I get frustrated when I see that the same mistakes are being repeated in many of the trade agreements that are now under way. I take that criticism to heart. My basic view is that positive proposals should be made. There was someone here earlier who said that these agreements usually take years to come up with. But it is precisely because they are so complex and all-encompassing. Why not make it easier at the first step? Why not identify the 100 legislative proposals that unjustifiably hamper trade? Then you grab them and see what changes can be made in each country. Then we will abolish those duties. In Sweden it is completely uncontroversial to abolish customs duties. Some countries still want a duty of EUR 1 per litre of olive oil. There are contradictions in the EU, but here in Sweden we are quite in agreement. Anyone who cries for much often loses the whole paragraph. That is what we are actually doing with the new trade agreements. There's a problem. It's pretty healthy to read something with critical eyes. Then you discover more problems that can be addressed. It is a pity if you discover the problems too late. Then I fully agree with you that, within the framework of the work of the European Parliament, there were many new ideas and ideas. There is a much greater range, for both good and evil, than here in Parliament. But most of it was absolutely good. There are many modern trading ideas that we could bring home to the Swedish Parliament.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-383	Madam President, I would like It feels almost like the unit would come after the rock band today. But I guess that's the way it is. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 1 and 14. For 100 years between 1870 and 1970, Sweden, together with Japan, had the highest growth in the world. Both countries moved from poverty to prosperity, and in many ways through trade with other countries. This was made possible by investing and selling goods in other countries, but also by importing, among other things, raw materials, spare parts and machines that we needed. The international trade, functioning laws, rules and social institutions made Sweden a successful country. Half of all goods and services produced in our country are sold to other countries, and we import almost as much. This also makes Sweden one of the world's most export-dependent countries. Small countries like Sweden are more dependent on free trade than large countries to achieve prosperity. Our trade dependency is almost four times that of the United States. Therefore, there is also a great deal of agreement between the political parties in Sweden that free trade is important. Last November we were some representatives of the Committee on Economic Affairs who went to the United States to follow the last week before the presidential election. And there was no misunderstanding of Donald Trumps's message both to the American people and to the outside world. With his slogan, Make America Great Again, he drew forth as a whirlwind at various political meetings and in the mass media. At one of the meetings I myself had the opportunity to attend, he clearly stated that he would tear up and renegotiate trade agreements that were not beneficial enough for the United States. Already during his first week of work in the White House, Trump signed an order to leave negotiations on the TTP free trade agreement – an agreement involving a total of eleven Pacific countries. If it is an overall signal of how the US intends to manage its trade policy, it does not look bright for the EU's free trade agreement with the US. However, EU Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmström is cautiously positive and hopes that the negotiations can be resumed in due course, and we must certainly hope so. Another concern, as several have mentioned before, is, of course, Britain's withdrawal from the EU. Since the UK is one of Sweden's largest trading partners and many Swedish companies exist in the country, the matter becomes quite complicated. We will have to come back to this. Madam President, I would like The report also reads about the government's export strategy, but does not mention a single word about the importance of having competitive conditions for companies at home. If we are to be able to compete in a global market, we cannot, as the government is now doing, increase taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship, introduce mileage taxes at a distance and strike with a flight tax. All of this impairs the conditions for Swedish companies to be able to sell their goods and services on an international market. Finally, I would like to say that a great many people are still living in poverty. The UN expects 1.2 billion people to live on below $1.25 a day. To get away from poverty, free trade is a key to change. Although we should not turn a blind eye to the fact that there may also be a back door to cheap goods being produced in developing countries, we must make it easier for poor countries to sell goods to us in the richer part of the world. That is the only way companies in poor countries can compete with companies in the richer part, and that is how prosperity can be created.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-393	Madam President, I would like Today we are here to debate the energy that makes society's engines spin. The energy is the base plate in Swedish industry. It lights up our homes, even in the darkest hour. It runs operating rooms in hospitals and electric cars on the streets. Without security of energy supply, our society and our economy remain. Today we have to deal with a large number of exercises that deal with how energy can become cleaner and safer and how it can be used more effectively. Let me start in the clean and green. The climate challenge is one of the greatest threats to our world, as we know it today. The challenge is getting bigger and uphill steeper when the United States has now chosen a climate-denier as President. Fortunately, the discussions in Sweden are reversed. We have a broad consensus on the extent and consequences of the climate threat. Five parties agree that Sweden should have no net greenhouse gas emissions by 2045 at all. The same five-party group also agrees on strong measures in the field of energy to completely eliminate fossil fuels. I'm both happy and proud of that. But despite high ambitions, which will make Sweden the best in the class on the environment, it is important to remind us that in our country we account for just less than 1 per mil of the world's emissions. We can be the best in the class, but the whole class must perform if the grade is to be raised. This means that even if we are doing well, the climate challenge is global. This is just something that we solve with others. We often talk about the revolution in renewable energy that has thrown the playing field in recent years. But what we rarely talk about is that fossil energy as a proportion of the world's total energy consumption has steadily increased over the last 20 years. This means that although more people choose wind and solar power, the percentage of the world's consumption of emissions-heavy energy has increased. The explanation for this is simple. This is because there are some countries, including states in the United States and Germany, which, with political decisions, have chosen to put CO2-free nuclear power in a premature manner without having green alternatives ready. This has led to increased dependence on coal power and gas. We therefore believe that a shift in the energy system must take place in a controlled and thoughtful manner. The security of the system must never be jeopardised, and the less CO2 emissions, the better. That is why I am pleased that we have now established long-term rules of play for all of Sweden's major power teams, i.e. hydropower, nuclear power and new renewable energy. We have major investments in wind and solar power, while the tax on nuclear power is now abolished and the tax on hydropower is almost completely removed. We are making a transition with high environmental objectives without, with political decisions, closing nuclear reactors. However we do to get Sweden to be the best in the class, as I said, more countries need to step up and solve the climate challenge, because the climate challenge is global. One thing is for sure: If we are to solve the climate challenge globally, it is not done through more strategies, more coordinators or more collaboration. This is only done by the fact that environmental technologies continue to develop at a rapid pace and become both more efficient and cheaper. The only way to get more countries to do much more globally is if it becomes cheaper to buy in environmentally friendly technologies. Here Sweden has an extremely important role to play. We need to continue investing in high-quality energy research in all our major power teams if Sweden is to become the world leader in the environmental technology that we can then export to other countries. This future environmental technology will be created here. It can then benefit the whole world. However, we also need a better business environment so that technology companies not only want to start here but also want to stay here. There is a need for less regulation in business and lower taxes. In addition, as we heard in the previous debate, major efforts are needed for more free trade so that we get rid of customs duties and other restrictions on the export of environmental technologies. Only then can we have more trade and more exports of the technology needed to make climate-smart choices cheaper. To the export of green energy technologies shall be added the potential of direct exported, finished-roducated energy. The EU is now taking major and important steps towards a common energy market. This opens the doors significantly for Sweden to become a major exporter of renewable energy in Europe. This is good for a number of reasons. On the one hand, our competitiveness is strengthened, which creates the conditions for both jobs and growth in Sweden, and on the other hand creates opportunities for other EU countries to have access to energy that does not come from the East. The only reason why Russia can build Nord Stream, which many of us have had to criticise, is because 25% of the EU's energy use comes from natural gas. That is the only reason why Nord Stream is profitable. With a common energy market and energy union, the door opens for more countries to opt out of Russian gas in favour of, for example, Swedish hydropower. This is extremely positive for the whole of Europe, including from a security policy perspective. Security is a word that has come up at the top of the Swedish debate. We use it more and more. In our areas, security means knowing that the lights do not go out in the operating room or that the machines do not stop in the factory. Security of supply and electricity networks may not be the hipst issue to address, but it is vital that everything works. Yesterday, the Swedish National Audit Office visited the Committee on Economic Affairs to direct sharp criticism of the Swedish power grid and its analyses that form the basis for the dimensioning of the electricity grids. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the networks can be built more efficiently if Swedish power networks only work in another way. However, this is not the whole picture. The regulatory issue of network expansion has led to permit processes that can take up to ten years. We live today in a vulnerable world. Our networks can be subject to both conscious attacks and natural disasters. The networks can also reach a maximum capacity that means that new large companies, who want to establish themselves in Sweden, cannot do so due to the lack of energy. Therefore, there is also a need for a discussion on how to ensure the security of supply of energy, regardless of weather conditions, and how to create flexibility in permit processes and remove the current regulatory constraints that in various ways limit network capacity's ability to match demand. Despite major challenges regarding climate, security and efficiency, we are well on the way. But I am absolutely convinced that more moderate policy is also needed in the field of energy. A new Prime Minister is needed in Sweden if we are to take real responsibility for the energy issue. I therefore support the Alliance's reservation No 1 and the Moderate's reservation No 2.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-409	Madam President, I would like We are debating energy policy today. The report deals with motions and proposals arising from the general period of exercise. Some have happened since then; the Energy Commission has continued to work during this time and has made several proposals in its final report, which have not yet been launched. One of the most urgent proposals from the Energy Commission is to give nuclear power and hydropower more neutral rules of the electricity market. The phasing out of the one-sided criminal taxation that has been practised for a long time is already under way. This is something that is pleasing and that the Swedish Democrats have been pushing for a long time. Another important part of this is to broaden the investment rules and the agreed operating times of the nuclear nuclear nuclear nuclear waste fund fee. The Energy Commission's report considered that the investment rules should be extended in line with previous investigations. It should also be possible to broaden the investment rules in order to be able to invest in shares, for example. The assessment of these changes by the Agency of Experts, the Radiation Safety Authority, is that the contribution to the Nuclear Waste Fund could probably still be reduced to a lower level than the current level in order to balance the liabilities and assets of the fund if these changes are made. This is something that would further strengthen the competitiveness of nuclear power, providing more fair conditions of competition and strengthening the conditions for continued strong security of supply in the country. It is extremely important that this should now also become a reality for the next fee period. Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats' basic approach to energy policy is to promote an energy system that provides a long-term competitive and reliable energy supply for industry, welfare and citizens, not the other way round. The focus should be on enabling Sweden to maintain as high an international competitiveness and standard of living as possible, which also requires long-term rules of play for a sustainable electricity market. One of the basic problems with the electricity market remains subsidies and subsidies that distort competition, which, with some of the proposals from the Energy Commission, is now in danger of further strengthening and, in the long term, also overturning the objectives set for Swedish energy policy. A further 18 terawatt hours will be forced into an electricity market that is already characterised by very large surpluses of electrical energy. We are more or less forced to randomize it at under-prices to our neighbours, something that should be able to arouse a certain thought from numerators. According to basic market theory, too large a supply is pushing prices, as is the case with electric power. The politically created oversupply of electricity that the market has not requested has pushed prices to a non-sustainable level, which of course can be seen as beneficial for the time being. On the other hand, there is concern that no operator can invest in new capacity to replace old-age facilities or the like because there is no economic return on the capital needed to be invested. This has now gone so far that it also affects those plants that are already receiving additional compensation in addition to the price of electricity and that are now bleeding heavily financially, which has led to standing with the cap in hand to ask for additional subsidies and subsidies by political means. To date, the subsidy scheme has been camouflaged with electricity certification systems as a market-based support system. If you would now meet the requirements to keep the level of investment up when you have already built too much, the picture changes a lot. Then we have a politically regulated market in which politicians effectively turn up remuneration levels when the market price goes down in order to completely eliminate all forms of market functions and market forces. What will create even more far-reaching concerns is that the government now also intends to introduce the energy tax as an investment parameter for those who will build power generation, something that can only be done by those who are consumers and who do not form the basis for other power generators' investment decisions. We can once again stress that, in order to move towards a better functioning electricity market, it is necessary to start with the clean-up of all the distortions of competition that tend to govern the Swedish electricity market. Madam President, I would like A little less than a year ago, we debated in this House a report on the power reserve and its extension. In connection with the extension, the government also invested heavily in making the renewable in the procurement. In the debate, we were then able to hear representatives from the government parties stress that significant environmental requirements would be set in future procurement, which was part of increased climate ambitions and the work for a fossil-free Sweden. That was something that was communicated with a great deal of confidence in this House. What was the result? The results of the procurement were announced during the spring. No, i.e. zero, acceptable tenders for plants producing electricity from renewable energy sources were received in the tender for Swedish grids. This resulted in Karlshamnsverken winning the procurement over four years with oil burning in its condensing power plant. The Swedish democrats were then the only party that thought – and we continue to believe this – that it is not reasonable with this type of requirement, as energy policy should otherwise be used to make the power reserve redundant in the long term and since Sweden's power system is already exclusively fossil-free. These installations are also part of the EU ETS, which makes it even more backward. But it shows once again that the attitude of the government indicates a difficulty in acting crediblely on energy issues. With this, I would like to endorse Amendment No 3 in the report. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, we are content to ask for approval only for this reservation.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-424	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 1 by the Alliance and Amendment No 20 by the Center Party. Imagine how much is happening in the energy world! When we had this debate a year ago, there was no energy agreement. It writes political history in Sweden. But that's not really the most important thing. The most important thing is that history is written around the world every day. Even the most optimistic scenarios made five years ago have not been able to predict the future. They are being radically surpassed. Technology development is phenomenal. The prices of solar power and wind power are falling tremendously. No one thought we could build as cheaply as we do today. And progress continues. Not least, we must remove the tariffs on solar cells at European level. We could reduce those prices in Sweden and Europe quite substantially right away. It also creates great opportunities. If at some point in the future we can find ourselves in the situation that electricity ceases to be something we need to do because of climate change and other things are opening up completely new conditions. At the same time, the road must be as smooth as possible. We don't live in a society where we can take everything away and rebuild, like in Minecraft, Simcity or any other game that is usually very fun and interesting. We live in a reality where much has already been built, and then we have to use the systems we already have. For example, that people would get up in the middle of the night to turn on the dishwasher and the washing machine because it would be better for the electricity system is probably a utopia. People will not want to do things that are complicated and unwieldy. You want to do things that are easy and simple and also pays off. Then we must also find the structures for it. We must set the rules of the policy that make that possible. Maybe you don't have to go upstairs and turn on the dishwasher yourself. Someone else can do it for you-- a system can do it for you. The most important thing is usually not that the disk is clean right at midnight, because then you will not use it anyway. The important thing is that it is clean for breakfast, when to use it. Then it doesn't matter when the dishwasher is started. The important thing is when it's finished. Such smarter systems, which can be operated and controlled remotely, also create opportunities for completely new business models. They're the ones we need to get to. We need to create conditions. Representatives of the Alliance talk about regulatory issues, simplifications, business opportunities and business conditions. It is incredibly important for the green transition. We will not have a green transition unless we have the right conditions for companies. That is why it is so important that we help to create flexibility. Politics should not create the technical systems. We will stop discussing which technology is best, whether electric cars are the best or hydrogen cars are the best, or whether wind power is the best or hydropower is the best. We're going to give the conditions. We will provide the conditions for coping with the climate problem. And we're gonna set the targets for where we're going. Then there are things we need to make sure are in place. We need to make sure we have things with better governance. We must ensure that our electricity meters at home are able to do these things. That was something we highlighted in the Energy Commission of the Center Party. That is something that is included in the final report. It's something that's very important. It sounds like a crappy thing to talk about how our electrical meters look at home. But it's incredibly important to create those business opportunities. That is why I also choose to highlight the Center Party's reservation No 20 on energy efficiency and flexibility. Our energy system works like this: We use most electricity in the morning and in the afternoon. We use quite a lot during the day. We cannot dimension the system on the basis that we should always have maximum production. It becomes an oversized system, and it becomes an expensive system. This is also why we have a power reserve that allows you to take care of the highest peaks at a little less cost. But if we can cut those peaks and if we can make sure that the heat pump doesn't have to go between clocks. 5 p.m. and 5 p.m. 19 we can get a little less production, which is better. We will then optimise our system. We turn on the knobs that you would probably have screwed on if you had been able to build a new system from the beginning. We need to provide the conditions. But it's about more things. In order for us to get that system, we also need to protect the power we have. We must ensure that hydropower has the right conditions, so that it is possible to produce more when there is less wind, when the sun does not shine as much or when it is not so hot that cogeneration can be used to the extent that would be needed. Then you need to have an opportunity to produce more. Then we need to have a legal situation that works for both the small-scale and the large-scale. I am pleased with the energy agreement we have, in which we say that the law on hydropower should not be unduly administratively or economically burdensome for the individual. We see how hydropower plants that have produced renewable energy for centuries – first as mills and then as electricity producers – are now threatened by the ravages of government agencies around the country. It interprets the legislation zealously and in a different way from what was intended. That is totally unacceptable to us. It is therefore incredibly important that we get the new legislation in place, which is announced by the government and which we in the five-party group are to agree on. We will also deliver information about the electricity certification system, how we get more renewable power and how we continue the green transition and make Sweden a little more energy smart. That was a crucial part of the Center Party in order for there to be an agreement at all. In this work, it is important to find a way to manage both the investments that will be made and the investments that have been made. Perhaps the most enjoyable thing about participating in this debate is the situation this year compared to last year. Technology development is amazing. But it is now also five parties in the Swedish Parliament that agree on the main features of Swedish energy policy. It's historic. It's nice to have been on that trip, I think. Of course, there are details left. It always will. I look forward to our continuing to keep the debate alive, because there is much more in the energy sector than just electricity. On the whole, however, the situation is now quite different from that of a year ago. It is completely different in Swedish politics, but it is above all completely different in the world. In fact, we see world growth rising, but emissions are not increasing. It's historic. We must continue to do so. We must continue to put a price on emissions, including internationally. Then we need to review some international conventions, laws and rules. We need to ensure that we have a strong EU ETS, an emissions trading system that makes it equally expensive to release everywhere. I look forward to working on this in the coming year.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-439	Madam President, I would like We are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 14 on energy policy. You can read the budget proposal for 2017. It shows that the overall objective of energy policy is to ensure, in the short and long term, the availability of electricity and other energy on conditions that are competitive compared to the rest of the world. Energy policy aims to create conditions for efficient and sustainable energy use and a cost-effective Swedish energy supply with a low impact on health, the environment and climate and facilitate the transition to an ecologically sustainable society. It is believed that it promotes good economic and social development throughout Sweden. The whole of Sweden is missing many times, but that's another thing. It can also be said that everyone really wants a safe and secure electricity supply that can be trusted. So it is all over the party spectrum, regardless of party. As most people probably know, there is an energy agreement – it has been mentioned here a few times – between the government, the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats. That agreement, of course, is very much in the shape of this report. Madam President, I would like There are, of course, things that are good in this agreement and that the Left Party agrees with. It'll give you a ride in the right direction. This applies, for example, to the target of having 100% renewable electricity production by 2040. And this concerns the goal that Sweden should have 50 percent more efficient energy use in 2030 compared to 2005. It's good stuff. But then, in my opinion, with the objectives set out in the agreement, there will be strange conclusions. It is a position that I find difficult to reconcile with the renewable target. This is, of course, about nuclear power. How can one claim that the target is that by 2040 it will be 100% renewable when the nuclear issue is completely left to the market? This is simply not enough for my usual kind and positive view of goodwill. What's the plan? I am convinced that there are completely different views on what will happen among those who have signed this. The world's energy consumption is constantly increasing. In both Europe and the rest of the world, the need for energy will increase over the next few decades. Increasing energy consumption is linked to the development of the world's population. By 2050, the population is estimated to be somewhere between 9 and 10 billion people – it is people who will demand their fair share of the earth's wealth and wealth. It is coal, oil and gas that dominate production today. But that development is not sustainable. The Left Party wants Sweden instead to be a forerunner in the transition to a renewable energy system. Sweden should be a country that takes responsibility for future generations. Investments in the Swedish energy system are an important and necessary part of the environmental and climate transition in Sweden. Sweden will be at the forefront of research on renewable energy and energy efficiency. New technologies and innovations are essential to achieve the 100% renewable energy target in Sweden by 2040. Collaboration between companies, individuals and in clusters, universities, research institutes and public authorities is of the utmost importance for a business that is not only driven by short-term profit motives. This work will need to be intensified and deepened. The Left Party is in favour of increased energy research and initiatives that can benefit the development of renewable natural resources: solar, wind, water, biogas and various bioproducts from the forest. We have the knowledge in a number of areas. We have the technology. And we know that doing nothing is more expensive than doing something. The bill should be paid, but the question is by whom. Climate change is a fact that affects everyone. Investments in renewable electricity generation are essential to achieve the goal of an ecologically sustainable society. To then push the production of biofuels out into the sparsely populated areas or at least to places where the raw material is located should be natural and a goal for everyone. The Left Party naturally welcomes the extension of the electricity certification system for an additional 18 terawatt hours by 2030. Madam President, I would like Energy efficiency is an important component of a sustainable energy supply, and investments in energy efficiency have also proved to be a very profitable business. In spite of this, energy efficiency rarely takes place on its own, but most of the time investments are required. These are counteracted by the focus on short-term profitability and by higher priority for investment in core business and fierce competition in the global export-related industry market. Therefore, financial incentives are needed especially for industry. Here we are pleased to note the collaboration that SSAB, LKAB and Vattenfall have initiated with the goal of fossil-free steel production, and although this would lead to major energy needs, our industry has environmental and climate benefits that affect most people in the international market. But it is in fact expected that electricity will come from renewable sources and that it will be competitive in the outside world. The Left Party has four reservations in the report, but with regard to agreed rules and time savings, I only call for reservations 5 and 11.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-452	Madam President, I would like I agree very much with the speech by the Left Party here. It's pretty easy to talk visions, it's pretty easy to talk ideology, but it's another thing to present proposals that put ideology into practice. Now the Left Party has chosen to remain outside and not be part of the five-party agreement that has taken responsibility and been pragmatic and practical. They have chosen to stand by the side of, and then it is quite easy to pronounce great, fine words and visions. However, if you read on the Left Party website you get a different picture than that the energy supply would be safe, long-term and safe. It states very clearly that the Left Party wants to phase out nuclear power as soon as possible. In previous debates, I asked Birger Lahti how quickly it is as soon as possible but has not received an answer. That is why I would like a clear answer today: how quickly will the Left Party phase out nuclear power if you can decide?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-456	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia Fölster, for the question! If you had read more material from the Left Party, you would have seen that we also say that we should not compete the industry from Sweden through a deficit of energy. We say that we do not want uncertainty in the energy market that would compete out of the basic industry. When's as fast as possible? It is clear that we do not want there to be a shortage of electrical energy in Sweden, but as we expand the renewable energy and that we have something that keeps the power balance in check, we think it will be wrong that only the market can take care of whether we should have nuclear power left or not. There would have been other ways of giving nuclear power a chance to survive. It was certainly the case that they had problems with the investments for this thing called independent hard cooling, but to completely remove the tax and have no incentive for new construction does not agree with the Left Party as a sound and good energy policy. Letting the market handle it is like backing into the future. I have a question for Sofia Fölster: You said that you should not have energy where a hold from the east is included. Don't the Moderates find it embarrassing that the Russians are building a nuclear power plant in Finland? Isn't that a hold from the East on the energy? You don't say a word about the Russians building in Pyhäjoki. Isn't that a problem?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-460	Madam President, I would like What I find most embarrassing is that the government is not harder against Nord Stream, which poses a major security policy threat to Sweden. But if I am going to come back to why I asked for a reply to Birger Lahti's speech, it was because I want an answer when the Left Party wants to phase out nuclear power. Now Birger Lahti continues with visions. They want the cake and eat it, that is to say they want security of supply for the industry, but at the same time they want to phase out nuclear power. It does not make sense, and then you must also be able to answer the question how you want to do this, especially when Birger Lahti also says that he does not want the market to run. This means that politics should govern, and Birger Lahti stands here as the representative of the Left Party. That means, of course, that you must think that politics should have an opinion on how to phase out nuclear power and at what rate. I therefore repeat my question: could I get a year, a date or at least a rough hip when you want to phase out nuclear power?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-464	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia, once again! She did not answer my question either, but I will come back to that. I said that I think we should phase out nuclear energy as soon as we have expanded renewable energy to cover the need, without our industry being out of competition. That's the answer. I do not have a date, but clearly it is the political means that will speed up the expansion of renewables, and then we can phase this out. Perhaps it would have been said that the thermal power tax that was removed does not apply to new constructions. Now we're gonna get through a bit. There are many political incentives that can be put in place to prevent it without simply allowing the market to manage the new construction of nuclear power. Sofia Fölster takes up Nord Stream. We are against Nord Stream for climate and environmental reasons. Sofia Fölster talks very warmly about trade, and gas is also trade. It is Eastern states that become dependent on trade from the West, Germany. It is also trade that will take place through that gas pipeline. You're turning a blind eye to a few things. Sofia Fölster did not answer the question of the Russian construction of a nuclear reactor in Pyhäjoki, where the Russians will build and have the service. Apparently, it's not a problem. Sofia Fölster did not answer the question of why you do not react to their construction.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-469	Madam President, I would like I think it is worth pointing out that energy policy is one of the cornerstones of a functioning society. I therefore think it should be crowded in this House when we discuss these issues. Security of energy supply is a prerequisite for prosperity – a prerequisite for our hospitals to be able to function 24 hours a day, a prerequisite for our schools to be kept warm for students even in winter and a prerequisite for Swedish industry to remain competitive in a globalised world. For the Liberals, climate is the most important guiding principle of energy policy. It is urgent to reduce CO2 emissions at a global level, and we know that the global energy sector is one of the biggest villains in the drama. The second important principle of our energy policy is security of supply. Our hospitals, schools and industries must be able to trust that electricity is available every day of the year, even in cold January. The objective of Swedish energy policy, and above all at European and global level, should therefore be 100% carbon-free in the first place. That, in our view, is the only relevant objective. We see renewable energy as a great means of achieving cheap and environmentally friendly electricity generation but not as an end in itself. Instead, the aim should be to protect the nearly 100% fossil-free electricity system that Sweden currently has. Swedish energy policy should therefore focus on those sectors where we have high emissions, such as transport, process industry and agriculture, and not on, as the government does, obsessively turning an electricity system that is already emission-free. Madam President, I would like Liberals are not behind the Energy Agreement. We believe that the agreement provides for large subsidies to weather-dependent electricity production, entailing significant socio-economic costs without providing any benefit to the climate. Supply-side incentives are proposed at the same time as introducing a target to significantly reduce energy supply. The overall socio-economic impact of the proposals can be significant. The extension of the electricity certification system and the aid for offshore wind provide support for new electricity generation despite the fact that the electricity market is already so saturated that no new investments are profitable. Liberals welcome all forms of emission-free electricity generation, but it will be built when needed and on a market-based basis. It has become clear in recent weeks that the Liberals have been right. Sweden is facing a new energy crisis where the big power companies warn that new electricity certificates can knock out both hydro power and nuclear power faster than we thought. Madam President, I would like There are also some sparkles in the energy agreement that I would like to mention; the proposed tax reductions. Liberals were the first party to push the issue of the abolition of the nuclear impact tax, and we therefore welcome the fact that the impact tax is now being phased out. The reduction of the property tax on hydro power is also a good thing. Efficiency and new investments are needed for what is the crown jewel in our Swedish energy mix. The strange situation now arises that the state should facilitate the renovation of hydroelectric power stations through the abolition of property taxes, while allowing new electricity generation to compete, including hydroelectric power, through powerful subsidies. Liberals are also doubtful about the energy agreement because it contains wordings about the future of nuclear power that are so difficult to understand that even those who are behind the agreement do not agree on the meaning. In the energy sector, uncertainty about the interpretation of the Energy Agreement continues to flourish. Half the industry is convinced that the target of 100% renewable means that nuclear power will be shut down. What the Social Democrats think is generally unclear. The environmental partners seem very happy for each closed reactor is obvious. I don't think the Moderates share that view. Madam President, I would like There are great advantages to increasing the interconnection of electricity networks in the Nordic countries and in Europe. Overall, this leads to lower costs and better environmental performance. By exporting climate-smart electricity to our European neighbours, among other things, we can contribute to a climate transition while contributing to the energy security of those countries and reducing their dependence on unsafe energy suppliers. In times of increased conflict in our neighbourhood, where, among other things, gas supplies are used as a political lever, security of energy supply is needed at European level. In our opinion, the Energy Agreement lacks clear reasoning as to how close security policy is to energy policy and what the security policy implications of the proposal are. How does it affect Lithuania that Sweden is now closing four reactors in the near future? What are the consequences of Sweden's choosing to increase renewable subsidies for gas dependence on our EU neighbours? Sweden is not an island. Government policy may have drastic consequences for our neighbours. In our opinion, this perspective is lacking in the energy agreement. Energy issues are highly cross-border and benefit from stronger EU cooperation. The Liberals are therefore in favour of a common Energy Union and believe that Sweden should be the driving force for closer European cooperation in the field of energy. While the benefits of an increased degree of interconnection and electricity exports are high, there are several questions left unanswered by the Energy Commission. For the economic and environmental benefits to be realised, the expansion of electricity generation and transmission capacity must go hand in hand. We are now in danger of building up, through subsidies, an electricity surplus that we cannot get rid of. The result may be locked-in power and major socio-economic costs. The Energy Commission has forgotten that in order for Sweden to export electricity, there must be someone who wants to import that electricity. There is a lack of both strategies and interaction with the countries concerned in this regard. Madam President, I would like We are living in an exciting time where there is rapid technological development in the energy sector. There is a great potential to continue to develop renewable energies, solar energy and biogas, as well as to develop newer technologies, such as wave power. Liberals want to see research and innovation initiatives in energy storage and batteries. More doors must also be kept open to ensure a sustainable energy system in the future. Fourth generation nuclear reactors have the potential to reduce CO2 emissions while allowing waste to be processed and used as fuel. For the sake of climate, the proposal from our leading technical universities to build a Swedish research reactor should be implemented. Liberals' vision for energy policy should be a long-term sustainable and climate-neutral energy supply with the highest possible security of supply and energy security. We therefore support the Alliance's reservation 1.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-491	Madam President, I would like The production and use of renewable electricity is an important part of achieving a sustainable society. We all know that. As usual on energy issues, I would like to emphasise that I and the Christian Democrats want to see a diversity of renewable energy in the transport sector, industry, heating and electricity generation. We aim for an energy system that includes both large-scale and small-scale elements adapted to both local and industrial needs. In the long term, I and the Christian Democrats want Sweden to have an energy system based on 100% renewable energy. On the other hand, we have not timed it. In view of the energy agreement reached by the Christian Democrats and four other parties last June, and the follow-up to the agreement that we have been working on since then, it is important to note that confidence in the future in the whole energy industry has become so much greater. It is precisely because a consensus has been demonstrated for many people on important issues both in private and in business. The Energy Commission – the state inquiry – had the task of looking at energy supply for a number of years to come. The bet lowering of about 400 pages has become more or less an encyclopaedia, which anyone interested in energy issues can use. Madam President, I would like I will focus on two different energy areas. I am one of those who would like to see the development of hydroelectric power. I do not mean to expand it in rivers and so on, but I would like to see an innovative development of hydropower. By streamlining and renewing hydropower in Sweden, which is the most stable energy source available, with the help of the innovative power that exists in technology companies in Sweden, our country can become even more leading in the world on this type of innovative energy solutions. I can mention small-scale hydroelectric power as well as large-scale hydroelectric power. I think it is important that there is efficient small-scale hydropower around the country because we are looking more at energy security than before. There is one point in the fact that there is a functioning local electricity production even if the production does not work in the big part. If something were to happen in terms of security in the country, there would still be local electricity producers where production works. It's important to the country. Another and more contradictory energy issue is the potential of geoenergy in Sweden. We are talking about this far too little. Who hasn't installed rock heat today? In any case, many have installed rock heat for their villas. Rock heat is probably the most basic geoenergy that we know about. It drills holes in the ground and produces the energy in the interior of the earth. I won't explain more advanced than that – for time winning, as you usually say when you don't intend to make a claim. But I think geothermal energy fits perfectly in large-scale systems connected to district heating and works excellent for heating purposes both in larger systems and in small houses. I think – and we in the Christian Democrats have also written in our committee motion – that it would have been well-lawed if Sweden had had had a demo facility in this area, where we could have seen the potential and gained knowledge from other countries about this with geothermal energy. I was in Karlskoga in Värmland a few months ago and gave a speech on this theme. There is a great interest in being able to solve this together with the Swedish Energy Agency, Region Örebro län, the municipality and so on. There are many different stakeholders. And why not? Why should we not look at this area as well as at everything else? We should not think that everything works as it has always done in the field of energy. We may need new skills and new types of energy. Another part of the Swedish energy mix is biogas and natural gas. Biogas, which we have talked about many times before in this House, I am a huge fan of. I think we could use it a lot more and better in this country. There were big articles about it in DN yesterday, and Swedish Television's news also mentioned the lack of collected food waste to produce biogas. There, the Swedish Municipalities and Landsting are an important part of working together with Waste Sweden and other actors to drive the development so that we can produce more biogas, not least in order to be able to complete important infrastructure investments for transport in the country. I will end there, Madam President, and support the Alliance's reservation 1.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-503	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Yesterday, a ranking by Carbon Market Watch was published showing that Sweden is the country in the EU that is clearly best placed to achieve the Paris climate reduction targets. Sweden once again draws attention to itself by being a pioneer country in the climate transition and in the development of new energy technologies. By being far ahead in research, development and commercialisation of renewable energy and smart energy use and technology, we are creating new jobs and growth in Sweden while making it easier and cheaper for other countries to streamline their energy use. Now that countries such as India, China and Indonesia are investing in energy, Sweden is an important partner in expanding renewable and sustainable energy solutions. It is good for our exports and therefore for jobs and welfare in our country. But the fact that we are successful and envyed by other countries with a much more problematic situation with high dependence on coal and oil, of course, does not mean that we can somehow settle down. When the current government took office, concerns about the future were very great in the energy industry. The government then appointed the Energy Commission with the aim of finding a cross-block agreement in the field of energy. Many were those who did not think it would be possible to reach such an agreement. But we – the government parties together with the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats – succeeded. After 30 years of political disagreement on energy policy, we have since June a broad, cross-block energy agreement. It is a strength for our country that we have managed to gather such great democratic support to create long-term rules of the game for a sector that many here today have said is absolutely crucial for everything in our society. With this agreement, everyone can feel confident that we will always have access to electricity when we need it in a sustainable and competitive way. It creates long-term clarity for market players and contributes to new jobs and investments in Sweden. The goal of the agreement is a 100% renewable electricity system by 2040. The agreement also means that we agree on a large part of the measures needed to get there. Madam President, I would like The implementation of the agreement is in full swing. Yesterday, the Government presented a proposal with a tax proposal in connection with the Energy Agreement: The tax on thermal power for nuclear power will be phased out until 2018, and the property tax on hydroelectric power plants will be gradually reduced to 0.5 per cent of the tax value by 2020. With this agreement, we are committed not to taking political decisions on the closure of nuclear power plants. At the same time, we agree that nuclear power should bear its own costs and not be subsidised in any way. The fact that the tax is now being reduced on water and nuclear energy means, as we see it, that we have an orderly and safe transition to a 100% renewable energy system, in the first place because the issue of new nuclear power in Sweden is considered by market players themselves to be a non-issue. During the year, a wide range of proposals that contribute to the implementation of the Energy Agreement will be submitted to the Swedish Parliament. During the spring there will be a proposal on the electricity certification system. It shall be extended and extended by 18 terawatt hours until 2030. In addition, before the agreement, the government had already achieved an ambition increase in the electricity certification system in five terawatt hours by 2020. A proposal is expected to implement the agreement to introduce modern environmental requirements for hydropower. It is important that the review system should be designed in a way that does not become unduly administratively or economically burdensome. Hydropower has an incredibly important role in Sweden's energy system already today, but it becomes even more important when the proportion of weather-dependent power increases because hydropower has unique characteristics such as control power. We are looking forward in the near future to a proposal on the rules on the financing of nuclear waste management and nuclear safety issues in accordance with the agreement. More proposals are expected in the autumn. Madam President, I would like Several of the motions in this report deal with energy efficiency. In the agreement we five parties also committed ourselves to agree on an energy efficiency target. So have we. Sweden will have 50 percent more efficient energy use in 2030 compared to 2005. The Swedish Energy Agency, together with various industries, will formulate sector strategies for energy efficiency. A specific energy efficiency programme for the electricity-intensive Swedish industry similar to the old PFE should be introduced, given that responsible funding can be found. It will also investigate any obstacles that may exist to enable service development in terms of active customers and efficiency efficiency. The study should examine which economic and other instruments – such as white certificates, mentioned in some of the exercises – are most effective in increasing efficiency in terms of both energy and impact. The Government has also decided on committee directives to investigate the conditions for introducing government energy saving loans in Sweden. Another issue raised in various ways in some of the exercises is the importance of reducing climate emissions from the transport sector and thus taking greater advantage of Sweden's potential for biofuels. Here the government has recently presented new important proposals: the change of fuel, which includes the reduction obligation, and the bonus – the malus system for passenger cars. This, together with the EU CO2 reduction legislation now updated with a new test cycle, will make a significant contribution to reducing emissions from the transport sector. Some exercise also takes up solar energy. It has never been as simple or profitable as now to install solar cells on its roof. In several different steps, the government has improved and simplified the conditions for those who mainly produce electricity for their own use. Together with technological development, this has produced results. For example, a few weeks ago, Eon reported a sharp increase in notifications of PV installations. Over the past six months, the number of pre-notifications to Eon has increased by as much as 108%. In addition, the Swedish Energy Agency has been tasked with developing and now also presented a proposal for a strategy for increased use of solar electricity. The government is now working on these proposals. Madam President, I would like Let me conclude by emphasising that climate and energy issues are also central to the government's EU work. It is true that the EU's energy policy was the subject of a special debate recently. Nevertheless, I would like to stress how important it is for the EU to have a regulatory framework in place, so that not only Sweden but the EU as a whole can live up to the Paris Agreement. It is a leadership that is needed more than ever in the world we see around us. I look forward to further energy debates.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-527	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an interesting speech, Åsa! It is true that Sweden is the best in the class in terms of the environment, renewable energy and environmental technology. But to solve the global climate challenge it is not enough that Sweden is the best in the class. Then the whole class must improve. The most important thing we can do is make sure to develop technologies that we can then export to other countries to make it cheaper for them to make climate-smart choices. I have a few questions. We agree that we should invest in research into environmental technology. But that research will lead to a product to be packaged, marketed and ultimately exported. This requires that we have a business environment that leads to more people wanting to start companies in Sweden, to more companies wanting to stay in Sweden and export from Sweden. Then we can think about other aspects of government policy. The government increases tax on jobs and growth, increases tax through the 3:12 rules and financial tax, increases tax on labour and introduces air tax. Many entrepreneurs feel that the regulatory burden has increased significantly since the government took over. The government also has a partner who, as we heard in the previous debate, has not even landed in whether to vote in favour of a free trade agreement with Canada. Canada should be one of the most obvious countries to have a free trade agreement with. How can Åsa Westlund think that more will want to start companies that will export environmental technology and also want to stay in Sweden, given the government's tax increases, regulatory issues and still not quite clear position on CETA?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-532	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Sofia Fölster! It is really important that it is not only Sweden that is doing its job but also other parts of the world. We have a unique opportunity, within the framework of the EU, to force other countries to meet tough climate demands. I have ten years of experience in seeing that the Moderates never stand up to make the hard demands on others. It's weird. In Sweden it is understood that if other countries get similar competitive advantages, it is also good for Swedish companies. Instead, however, one chooses a policy which, admittedly, means that Sweden takes precedence, which is a good thing. It gives us some competitive advantage. But you do not force other countries to follow. Why do you never think that the EU should make the tough decisions that are actually needed for Europe to meet the climate challenge, Sofia Fölster? As far as your question is concerned, 150 000 new jobs have been created since the government took office, of which 90 000 are in the private sector. Sweden's companies are doing well. Of course, this could go even better. Nevertheless, I believe that there is a point in being humbled by the fact that it seems that this government's policy is working. And as far as regulations are concerned, I have understood that the previous government closed down or at least changed the way in which it worked on regulatory simplifications. It is easy to say, but it is all the more difficult to implement in practice. I believe that the government's initiative on digitalisation will make it much easier for Swedish companies. That's where we're behind, Sofia Fölster. There the previous government could have done more.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-538	Madam President, I would like Åsa Westlund starts by saying that we should force other countries to do what we want. There's a lot of focus on whipping. We cannot force other countries to do things. We can wish other countries would do things. But we cannot force them, especially countries outside the EU. It is perhaps those countries, such as China, that would most need cheap environmental technology to change. Other solutions are needed, such as free trade and environmental technologies. When it comes to the business environment and increased taxes, it is quite easy to sit back and say that Sweden is doing well in a boom. If you have the cycle with you, you don't have to do much. Then you can afford to raise taxes, introduce rules and not see the effects of it at once. But the effects will come later. It is not in that way that the increased taxes do not have an effect just because we are in a boom. Instead, if taxes had been reduced, more people would have been able to get jobs. We could have even more and growing companies, even in a boom – if there had been a different policy. I want to come back to my question. Although we are in a boom, we have a growing exclusion, especially in some areas of Sweden. Although we are in a boom, Skype is now leaving Sweden; they are closing their headquarters here. And despite the fact that we are in a boom, Spotify threatens to leave Sweden entirely, precisely because of high taxes and a lot of regulatory hassle. How will it pay better to run companies in Sweden if the regulatory burden increases? How will it pay better to export environmental technology if taxes to operate companies in Sweden are increased? How will it pay to employ a high level of competence if the tax on employing the highly skilled persons is increased? These questions need to be answered if you want more companies that develop but also export environmental technology solutions.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-544	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Sofia Fölster, for so demonstratively marking that there is a great deal of consensus in Swedish energy policy. We cannot have a debate on it really, but we must get into the whole business area and the conditions for companies to find some kind of conflict. It is fundamentally positive that we have such a great deal of agreement. But you're wrong when you say we can't force other countries. Sometimes it's necessary. There are some countries in the EU that do not want to do their job in the field of climate change. Then we shall use European legislation to remedy it. For example, it is about getting a better functioning emissions trading system through which we can force other countries to reduce their emissions. We can not least make demands on flights within and to Europe. During the years I sat in the European Parliament, the Moderates did not stand up for an ambitious climate policy, nor in the years after that. We're gonna do it. But we will also lead by setting a good example. I'm glad you see it's working. It works for Sweden. But it would of course work even better if the EU, which is a large region, could show that it pays to go ahead and that taking responsibility for climate change is not a threat to growth and welfare. When it comes to our exports of energy technology, I see the work of the government, within the framework of the export work carried out by the government – it has recently been visited by, for example, China – as a hugely important part of strengthening Swedish companies' ability to export. The government's major investment in education and skills is a huge and important part in more companies finding the right people to hire and in enabling them to compete with knowledge and expertise in the outside world.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-549	Madam President, I would like It is important to switch to more renewable energy. Me and Åsa Westlund agree on the Energy Committee's 100% renewable target. However, I cannot quite reconcile the fact that the Social Democrats usually forget one of the important pieces of the puzzle. In this House we talk a lot about wind, water and sun. But let's forget about the bioenergy. Bioenergy in cogeneration is one of the most important pieces of the puzzle we have to get the system together. But what about the policy pursued by the Social Democrats, along with the rest of the government, with regard to the mileage tax? It would effectively threaten much of the potential of our forests. It would in one stroke remove a large part of the fuel for cogeneration. The Kilometer tax threatens that competition, in favour of waste incineration, which I do not believe is what the Social Democrats would like to see – especially not because they are considering introducing a waste incineration tax, which we in the Center Party have in our budget. I understand those companies that doubt, who are thinking about whether or not to make an investment in this and in some cases make less investment than they have planned – because they are uncertain about the cost situation in the future. How does the Social Democrats' policy on a kilometre tax go together with the fact that cogeneration should also have the potential to compete, Åsa Westlund?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-554	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for showing so clearly that we agree on large parts of energy policy and that we have to go outside it and discuss possible proposals on mileage tax! It is important for Sweden that we have a great consensus, and it is important that we are many parties that stand up for 100 percent renewable. As you have probably noticed, the government has recently delivered several important proposals to also strengthen biofuel production in Sweden. This is, for example, a reduction obligation, which is important for our green gold to have the chance. It is also about a bonus – the Malus system, which I know you have views on, but I think it will lead the development in the right direction. We also have the legislation that I spoke about in my speech. With regard to the climate requirements for cars, a functioning testing system will now put enormous pressure on cars to reduce their climate emissions. Biofuel is an important part, and it is a major asset for Sweden. We have also received a proposal from the European Commission on sustainability requirements that do not mean the drastic deterioration or the major threat that it could have posed. I also believe that it is important that we try to make a common cause and continue to work to make it stand or even be a little better than the proposal that is before us, because there will be forces that want to destroy. We will try to meet those attempts to stand firm on the need for sustainability, but that they must not threaten the sustainable production of biofuels that we have in Sweden.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-558	Madam President, I would like Now I'm getting a little confused. I'm a little worried if Åsa Westlund can't distinguish between biofuels and bioenergy. I am talking about bioenergy, which is used in cogeneration plants, and I am talking about the conditions for cogeneration plants. Biofuels are not fired in a cogeneration plant. Åsa Westlund will probably have to think about what we are talking about in this debate. This is a highly relevant energy debate on the electricity side. We can talk about people's education and that energy is about electricity, fuel and heating. Now we are talking about electricity and cogeneration, not about the car side, although I would love to talk about it at some other time. The mileage tax proposed by the government takes away great opportunities to bring in fuel – branches, peaks and roots, on which there is very little margin – and can actually burn in our cogeneration plants. This makes renewable energy and means that we get district heat and cogeneration that works. Here's a problem. Research studies show that the kilometer tax proposed by the government makes 5-10 percent of the biomass in the forest unprofitable to produce. One thing I think we agree on is that we need to use the forest more. There are an incredible number of different things that we need to use the forest for, including biofuels and biofuels. Then we cannot, in one stroke, remove those possibilities. The kilometer tax that has been proposed should now do some kind of take on – it is a bit unclear what it is about, and Åsa Westlund is happy to tell you more about it. There was no climate vision on it. There was nothing that would benefit those in the forest and the bioeconomy that we should actually strive for. We will move towards an economy that uses more of the forest and exploits opportunities to build more in wood, drive more on forests and burn with bioenergy in our combined heat and power plants. And it was the CHP plant part I asked Åsa Westlund about. My question was not about what we are driving on, but I wondered what Åsa Westlund thinks about how the kilometer tax effectively knocks out large parts of the possibility of burning forest raw materials in our combined heat and power plants.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-563	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Rickard Nordin! It's possible I was unclear. I understood that your question was about the conditions of the forest in Sweden. I think the latest proposals from the government are also very good for the Swedish forest. But I understand you don't want to talk about this because it's a good suggestion. Those whom you say you represent, namely the green industries, have welcomed these proposals. Bioenergy is an important part of Swedish energy production. It has also been important in the electricity certification system. We have proposals under way – 18 new terawatt hours. It is important that we get that system in place as soon as possible, with clear indications of what is going on for the future, including for this industry. There we have a common responsibility to ensure that the forest industry receives those answers. As far as mileage taxes are concerned, there is no proposal to debate. There are many speculations about what is to come, but there is actually no proposal. We can save the debate until something comes up. I think it is important that we have both carrot and whip to change our transport system, so that we get more rail, more trains and more boat traffic, while safeguarding Swedish competitiveness and having the right conditions in the transport sector. I hope that the forthcoming proposal can contribute to this.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-567	Mr. Old President! For all of us involved in the survival of the planet, there is good news as well as bad news. Unfortunately, the new heat records come all the time. Spring is now almost a month earlier with us in the northern hemisphere compared to ten years ago. 2016 was the warmest year ever recorded on Earth. At the same time, there is hope that climate emissions in the world have stopped increasing. For the third consecutive year, emissions remain stable despite economic growth. It is still too early to state that greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuels have peaked after increasing for almost 60 years, but it does raise hopes that we have reached a long-awaited milestone that will give us energy in what is now waiting, namely to reach zero in emissions as soon as possible. A continued rise in climate ambitions is needed to reach what world leaders agreed on in Paris – a chance to maintain the earth's climate in a human-friendly state. An energy transition is central to this. The International Energy Agency (IEA) has recently published the assessment that doubling the annual average investment in energy technology is needed to meet the target of two degrees of average temperature increase. In this debate there has been talk of the inspiring development of renewable energy. In the global effort to cope with the climate, Sweden's most important role is to show examples. We have an important role in climate leadership. Therefore, it is gratifying with the statement of strength that came yesterday, that Sweden wins the European Championship gold in climate work. Sweden continues to be at the top in terms of the share of renewable energy among EU countries. Sweden currently has 54% renewable energy. The target is 100% renewable energy. Both electricity and heat, industry and transport will come from renewable energy sources according to the Government's target of 100 percent renewable. In the report under debate today, the work of the Energy Commission is central. Five parties have agreed on a target of 100% renewable electricity generation by 2040 and of 50% more efficient energy use by 2030 than in 2005. The agreement contains many elements that take us towards the goal. There are proposals on hydropower with reduced property tax and modern environmental requirements, the conditions of nuclear power, extended electricity certification systems for renewable energy, tools for energy efficiency and much more. The declared ambition is for the Riksdag to decide in 2017 on the proposals contained in the Energy Commission's final report. It is important that all parts are taken into goal in the near future and that no part is left out in what is a whole. 2017 is likely to be the year that it has been delivered the most concrete energy policy ever in the Swedish Parliament. Several of the opposition parties stress in their motions the importance of measures to reduce transport emissions. But the same commitment is lacking when the issues are actually decided, when the Riksdag will decide on sharper targets for transport or when it comes to climate taxes that require all modes of transport to pay for their climate emissions. Transport's climate emissions must be reduced rapidly if we are to meet the climate targets. The government has recently presented a real climate offensive: bonus – malus for better cars, B ränslebytet to increase the share of renewable fuels, and one introduces a flight tax. Now the government is reintroducing the tax on burning fossil oil and coal in the middle of town in cogeneration plants – the tax that was removed when the Center Party was in government. With this climate offensive and the largest climate budget ever, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency expects that Sweden will be able to reach the climate target by 2020 with measures at home – thus without counting climate gains in other countries, as the previous government did. Sweden is now reaching the climate target at home and increasing climate aid for measures in other countries. According to the Energy Agreement, renewable energy will continue to expand, and Sweden will continue to have an electricity surplus in the long term. It is important both for the climate and to ensure that Sweden has a robust electricity system. The energy agreement means that nuclear power will not be shut down with political decisions, but will be taken by market players. This means that they cannot claim liability, as when Barsebäck was closed. It has already been decided that four out of ten reactors will be closed by 2020. We are waiting for information on three more reactors and whether they will be run after 2020 with the investments required with increased safety requirements. The closure of the remaining reactors is not likely to depend on the technical lifetime but on the economic lifetime. It is therefore important that Sweden continues to have a buffer with renewable energy in order to have good margins when the remaining reactors close. The Energy Agreement states that nuclear power should bear its own costs. This also applies when nuclear power is facing economic difficulties with current market conditions. The alternative to nuclear power paying its costs is that the state and, by extension, the taxpayer are taking the fall. Six years after the nuclear accident in Fukushima, the clean-up bill has doubled, as has the clean-up time. Still, no one knows where the three meltdowns are, since no one has been able to enter. The robots that have been sent in have broken. The final bill for Fukushima is expected to be twice as high as previously said – equivalent to unimaginable SEK 1,800 billion. The five parties behind the energy agreement agree to increase liability in the event of an accident, from today's level of SEK 3 billion to approximately SEK 11 billion. But 11 billion dollars is just a drop in the ocean compared to what an accident really costs. The Swedish taxpayer, like the Japanese taxpayer, is in danger of paying for the final bill of nuclear power. Mr. Old President! Let me conclude by saying a few words about energy efficiency, which is pointed out by the IPCC as the main fuel for achieving climate objectives. The Energy Agreement now sets a new ambitious target for energy efficiency by 2030. There is also a clear ambition to introduce a new programme for energy efficiency in the industry and to examine white certificates as a tool to give the market the tools to implement energy efficiency measures in Sweden, as in many other EU countries. Like a motionary's proposal for an energy saving loan in the report, the government is now investigating the possibility of releasing capital to implement energy efficiency improvements. Overall, I note that Sweden is now working step by step to realise the vision of 100% renewable energy. I support the proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-583	Mr. Old President! It's easy to talk and a completely different thing to show results. When SCB came up with its latest figures on climate emissions in Sweden, they showed that we have increased our emissions for three consecutive quarters. It is with the Green Party in the government that emissions increase; with the Center Party in the government reduced emissions. Individual proposals are easy to come up with, especially when we have an EU ETS that took care of those particular emissions in the past. The big difference here is that the Center Party delivers reduced emissions and increased growth while the Environmental Party primarily delivers increased emissions. It is good that the government has put forward a proposal for a change of fuel. The Center Party tried to do so in a government position, but we had to back down because of the EU. Furthermore, we have taken action, and already two years ago we had in principle the same proposal that the government is now putting forward. It's good that we get it in place. I would have liked to see something more long-term goal a little more in detail, but I think it is a fundamentally very good proposal. It is also good that the government delivers when it comes to bonuses – the Malus system. The problem is, it's too weak. It is more about financing today's proposal than about actually changing the car market. You will actually lower the bonus for most cars. For some – the very, the very best – there will be a small increase. We know today that it is not a sale that is good enough. We know today that we do not have enough electric cars and environmental cars on our streets. The proportion has also fallen since the Center Party was in government. When the Center Party was in government, we tenfolded wind power, doubled the number of environmental cars and carried out a number of major reforms. Above all – and that is what matters – emissions reduction. They don't do that with the Green Party in government. It is easy to stand in the speaker's seat and say fine words, but reality obviously says something quite different.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-588	Mr. Old President! I wonder if Rickard Nordin listened poorly to my speech. I referred to the figures presented by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency recently that Sweden now seems to be able to close the gap and thus reach the climate target by 2020, thanks to domestic measures. This means that in reality Sweden has significantly increased its climate ambitions, when we do not include measures abroad. We reach the climate target by 2020 at home and increase climate aid for actions in other countries. It is important that Sweden continues to reduce climate emissions, and that is why the government with the Green Party and the Social Democrats has put forward clear proposals that mean reduced emissions with a strong climate offensive. I note that the Center Party has been in the government for eight years talking about the proposals that are now being implemented, namely a bonus – Malus system for better cars on the market and a change of fuel that will ensure that we now have an increased share of renewable fuels in the system. I can also say that the Center Party does not stand up to the polluter to pay once it is in a position of urgency. I find it very difficult to understand the Center Party's opposition to the aviation tax that would mean that aviation will also have to pay for its climate emissions. That is something I think is perfectly reasonable given that all other modes of transport pay for their climate emissions. The fact that the government has increased its ambitions in the climate work speaks for itself when Sweden was only last night appointed the best in the EU in climate ambitions. We have reached EM gold in climate work, which is fantastic. Of course, it is not enough because Sweden is only one country in the world. We must continue to work on the tools that exist, among other things, within the European Union. I said in my speech that the government has now stated that it also wants to introduce a carbon tax on fuelling oil and coal in cogeneration – the tax that the Center Party and the previous government took away. So today there is no tax on burning oil and coal. Step by step, we are now restoring an ambitious climate policy in Sweden.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-593	Mr. Old President! Lise Nordin points out that Sweden takes EM gold on climate issues, and that is good. So do I. This depends in many ways on the environmental objectives that set very tough targets; if you look at those figures, it is precisely targets that make Sweden at the forefront. There's a deal. The Center Party was also driven to actually get to that agreement, where the signatory sat along – unlike Lise Nordin. So we are not at odds there. What we disagree on, however, is signal policy and placard policy that do not give real benefits to climate change. The airline tax and the mileage tax are typical examples of this. The investigator himself says about the airline tax that it has relatively small effects – if it has effects at all. It may even be that emissions increase because people choose other modes of travel and choose other airports, abroad. You do not fly from Malmö but from Copenhagen, and then the trip is not visible in the statistics. What is also said is that the emissions that could possibly be reduced if we count optimistically are so small that it is about half of all lawn mowers and hedge shears in Sweden. That's the level we're talking. What could actually make others want to copy us and make more people want to search and get that EM gold is, after all, if we manage to ensure that growth and reduction of emissions go hand in hand. That is the problem with the airline tax. That's what the Green Party can't do. The Green Party is good at raising taxes, raising charges and imposing bans, but the Green Party is damn bad at ensuring that we get growth and increased economic opportunities in Sweden. That's what others want to copy. That's what is being a pioneer country, and that's what makes more people want to take that EM gold. Then it does not work with air taxes and mileage taxes, because they are simple solutions to difficult problems. You have to dare look deeper than that, and you have to dare do things that are a little harder. There's a good change of fuel, and I've told you that. There's a bonus – the Malus system is good – if the government were actually to come up with a proposal that makes real climate benefits. This makes an extremely small difference to what the investigator himself proposed, which would not reduce climate emissions by more than 1%. This is the problem with the Green Party's policy: it does not give real benefits to climate change. We also see this in the statistics, which show that emissions are increasing.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-598	Mr. Old President! The Center Party is talking about placard politics, for which I do not think there is any justification whatsoever in reality. Sweden now has the largest climate budget ever. The government has just delivered a climate offensive with the concrete measures that have been discussed for many years. Finally, there is a delivery in terms of fuel change, bonus- malus and proposals on airline tax. I find it very worrying that the Center Party is ragging over the air tax and saying that it has little effect. Let me give you the numbers! The study suggests that, with the current proposal, a flight tax could reduce emissions by 0.2 million tonnes. It is 25 per cent of the gap left for Sweden to reach the climate targets by 2020. Aviation tax can mean that we reduce that gap by 25% and that we get closer to reaching the 2020 target. This is nothing to be rallied about. It is a concrete climate policy. The Centre Party's own voters want to introduce a flight tax. The airline tax and the mileage tax are two areas where the Center Party talks about climate but does not stand up. We have seen the same thing over and over again with the CO2 tax. When the Green Party has pointed out that we need to increase the CO2 tax in order to reach the climate targets, the Center Party has every time said no and meant that this would be devastating for Sweden, but once it has been introduced it has been said that it is good. How long are we going to have to drag the Center Party ahead of us in an offensive climate policy? We now have a situation where Sweden is doing financially well, while raising our ambitions in climate policy. With this government and the measures now on the table, we will be able to reach the climate target by 2020. I'm very proud of that.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-604	Mr. Old President! I would like to clarify what we are calling for. We are in favour of the Alliance's reservation 1 and reservation 6 in paragraph 2. By mistake, I said something else earlier.
i-BsnxkiSMcPBRXXhVatM3e6	Mr. Old President! The Constitutional Committee's report 19 is a committee motion. A motion has been tabled by Members of this House. It deals with public holidays, medal ceremonies, public awards and so on. It also deals with what I intend to devote my speech to, namely the moderate motion to make veteran day a public flag day. What's a flag day? The Swedish flag is a gathering symbol for us in this country. It is a symbol of what we stand for in our society – for freedom, democracy, human rights, freedom of expression and freedom of the press. These are values that not everyone around the world gets pleasure from but that we stand for and whose spread in the world we gladly, in different ways, participate in. With the flag, we can convey pride, joy and sorrow. We are doing this through the 17 general flag days that we have in Sweden today. With the flag days, we celebrate our national day, our royal days of reference, Christian celebrations, Nobel Day, Midsummer and New Year. In addition, we celebrate UN Day on 24 October. It is therefore natural, important and fundamental to celebrate on 29 May. This day is appointed to honor the women and men who under the UN flag have participated in international efforts around the world. This is also the proposal that we are going to discuss here today. Mr. Old President! Sweden has participated in international efforts since 1948. In connection with the Suez crisis in 1956, we stood up for the first time with an armed force, the so-called Suez Battalion. Since then, we have participated in approximately 120 operations in 60 countries. For example, we have participated in Congo, Sinai, Gaza, Cyprus, Lebanon, Bosnia, Afghanistan and Liberia. The sum of the women and men involved in these actions is approximately 85 000, and more are expected. While we are debating this proposal today, efforts are under way in Iraq, Kosovo, Somalia, Afghanistan, Mali and South Sudan, to name a few. Only during the time that I have been sitting here in Parliament and decided on various contributions, since 2006, about 12 500 women and men have been sent away. They have been sent away by us in this House, which is responsible for making the ultimate decision. Every time the finger rests over the button that sends these women and men away, we also send with a silent desire that they come home whole to soul and body and that the effort should succeed for its ultimate purpose. Mr. Old President! A veteran comes home from efforts with invaluable skills. You come home with skills such as leadership, cooperation, endurance, courage and companionship. Some also come home with injuries, both physical and mental. For this we have a particular responsibility, both we in this House, which takes the ultimate decision, and the Armed Forces, which are responsible for designing the efforts. Mr. Old President! Many years it happened that when you came home from your efforts you were met with a thank you and a medal. They turned in their bags, and thus officially ceased their contacts with the clients. Experience, both physical and mental, could mean that you could not go back to work and that you had problems with Försäkringskassan. Perhaps the wounded soul could not return to normal paths after experiencing things that we, in our safe country, rarely or never come into contact with. It can be about starvation, death and cruelty, but of course also about great courage and human effort. Not until under the alliance government, under the leadership of former defence minister Sten Tolgfors, was the initiative of a collective veteran policy. Member Allan Widman, who is sitting with us here today, led both one and two investigations into how to take on this responsibility, both from the Armed Forces and gathered around the voluntary and family organisations surrounding the veterans. It's not just the veteran who goes in and comes home again. This also involves friends, employers and, above all, families both during and after the effort. Mr. Old President! Since 2011, previously officially, Veteran Day is unofficially celebrated on May 29 here in Stockholm with a large ceremony out at the Maritime Museum at the Veteran Monument Restare. But it is also celebrated in other places around Sweden. These places are increasing, as more people pay attention, realize and are covered by the veterans' efforts and in different ways want to honor and pay attention to them. Of course, the veteran network that exists here in Sweden consists not only of the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Armed Forces' veteran unit, but also of the Swedish Peace League, the Peace Berets, the Invidzone, the Swedish Military Comrades' Association and the Swedish Soldiers' Home Association. But it also consists of a few more recent things, if you can call them that. These are two very important activities that I would also like to mention. One of them is the Veteran Support Rapid Reaction, which through crowdfunding online helps veterans who have ended up in financial distress for various reasons. The experiences that have been experienced in the stakes may not really affect you at once. There may be something else in life that makes you simply unable to cope with your everyday life and needs help in different ways. It can also be financial help. Here you make a big effort. Since 2013 through our country goes a veteran march where anyone who wants to can participate. You walk different distances, normally about 200 miles. The march lasts for a little more than a week. You can walk different parts of the way. The revenue goes directly to the Gula Bandet, i.e. as support for various activities within the Peace Berets. In these veteran marches I have attended, Mr. Old President, a number of times. I have walked side by side with veterans from various efforts and heard their very important stories. I have there in the ranks not only met military veterans, but I have also met veterans who participated from the police and from MSB. They have participated in actions in the event of floods in Pakistan, earthquakes in Haiti or Ebola eruptions in Sierra Leone. They are fantastic, heroic people who, with their lives as their ultimate effort, set out in Sweden's name with the Swedish flag on their shoulders and perform many times very dangerous missions. Most come home with amazing skills, some come home wounded and some don't come home at all. I would like to draw the House's attention to the capsule that I carry in this House and which is carried along the road by veterans in the veteran march. It contains the names of those who did not come home, including a member of my own family. To it will be added another name. Yesterday we received a sad news that Zaida Catalán has died in her mission for peace and freedom in Congo. Her name will also be carried during the many miles of the veteran march. Mr. Old President! I really have very little understanding that we who sit in here could not enable the entire Swedish people to honor all these women and men when veteran day is celebrated in different places in Sweden. We can do this through a general flag day, even if one does not happen to be at a veteran moment when such ceremonies are being held. If this possibility existed, it would increase the knowledge of the veterans' important efforts by the population as a whole. It would be a recognition to the veterans and their efforts and show them the appreciation and honor they deserve. I therefore call for the approval of paragraph 1 of the report on the establishment of veteran's day of 29 May as a general flag day. Veterans! Shoulder to shoulder, eternal friendship.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-627	Mr. Old President! Today I will not try to make fun of myself in my speech because, despite the apparently pleasant headline Public holidays, there is nothing fun at all on the subject on which I intend to dwell, on the contrary, only unimaginable tragedies. Mr. Old President! If I say the Holocaust and 6 million Jews, I think every fifth grader knows and understands what I'm talking about. However, I am not quite as sure that this is the case if I say Gulag and up to twice as many Soviet inhabitants. Should I also double or even triple this number of victims and say the Great Jump and 30 – 40 million Chinese, I regret to say that I may have lost more than a majority of the adult population. How did this happen, Mr. Old President? All these unfortunate souls have been mercilessly murdered by various socialist regimes with different orientations and ideologies. It depends, of course, on what information our schools and authorities are assigned to, and on what social, cultural and historical context they are in. If we just cross the Baltic Sea to our Baltic neighbours, I dare to promise that the memory of the Soviet heritage lives at least as strong as the memory of the Nazi. If we go down to Southeast Asia, the common man at most knows that once upon a time there was an evil little man in Europe named Adolf Hitler. In addition, they have had more than their fair share of their own little evil men to relate to at home. Apart from Mao Zedong, which is the worst example, I can mention, for example, Pol Pot and the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia. I myself have visited one of Pol Pot's kids fields just outside Phnom Penh, Mr. Age President. On these death fields, the Khmer Rouge manually killed about half a million people a year as late as the end of the 70s. They took little children in their feet and slammed their skulls against the nearest tree. The slightly larger and grown-ups were beaten to death with picks and axes or slit their throats with sharp scallops from the trunks of palm trees. The tools provided by the socialist and communist social order were simply used. Mr. Old President! Communism is a bit like Islamism. Wherever one of these heinous ideologies manages to grasp a social formation, the development seems to be halted or to take some substantial steps backwards. Just look at community formations like Cuba, Belarus and North Korea! I do not think anyone would describe them as particularly prominent or well-developed societies. Or to speak of Islamism: why not just see what has happened to Iran, Afghanistan and Syria? If we want a truly devastating combination of both these phenomena, Somalia should serve as a deterrent. Although I fear that perhaps one day we will have to debate whether to introduce a memorial day to the victims of Islamism, my speech today is about the countless crimes against humanity committed by Communism. As the report shows, the other parties in the committee put their trust in the government and its authorities, such as the Living History Forum, to pay adequate attention to these issues. At least that's how they choose to justify their refusal to our reservation. However, I am not nearly as optimistic about this. When it comes to the crimes of Nazism, it is undeniably a meritorious work. But while no decent person would call himself a Nazi, on this side of the millennium we have had people in this House who have openly declared themselves communists. One of them, as you know, was the leader of the party in which our socialist government usually relies to get its policy through. To seriously believe that such a constellation would make more than one at most half-hearted effort seems almost as preposterous as allowing Saudi Arabia to shape the UN human rights policy or to appoint a Christmas must expert as coordinator against violent extremism. There is no human being who could come up with such absurd ideas. Or what? It should probably be up to the non-socialist majority in this House to put its foot down and ensure that the many tens of millions of people who have been killed about life in the name of Communism are given at least the same attention as the victims of the Holocaust. A small step in this direction would therefore be to decide on a day of reflection and mourning. But even that seems to be too much to ask. It's pitiful. Mr. Old President! So, as I began by saying, I feel somewhat divided that such a serious issue is being prepared at all within the framework of a report entitled 'Public holidays', as it tends to create a little more positive associations. But let's do it. Even Easter has a dark and cruel history. In order to relate a little bit to what I have talked about before, the Swedish Democrats have also put forward a proposal to abolish the day that rather celebrates communism and socialism, that is, May Day. We want to abolish it as a holiday and replace it with almost any other day in principle. Of course, it can be something related to proud Swedish traditions. For example, there are proposals on 2 December to commemorate the introduction of the world's first and still existing Freedom of the Press Regulation. We would be no stranger to supporting that. We look forward to further discussions in order to seek consensus on this issue. Mr. Old President! After giving this speech in minor terms, I will try to strike a ducker's word. It has come to our attention that the Center Party and possibly also the government have come to their senses regarding veteran's day as a general flag day, at least if you believe the information circulating in the media. It now looks like we are getting a majority in this House in order to honour our veterans properly and appropriately, namely with the raising of the Swedish flag. The Swedish Democrats are the Swedish-friendly party in the Swedish parliament. We also want our Swedish holidays to be constitutionalized. Otherwise, we suggest that the use of national symbols, such as the flag and the national weapon, should be used more in official contexts and that You old, you free should receive official and statutory status as Sweden's national anthem. However, for technical reasons and for time to win the vote, we would like to support reservations 3 and 4 only here and now.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-642	Mr. Old President! In fact, veteran political commitment goes even further back in time than my colleague, Annicka Engblom, was just in the speaker's seat. The first veteran investigation was appointed by Mikael Odenberg, and it is today quite evenly ten years ago. Many of my Social Democratic colleagues in Parliament often wear the veteran needle, and I have seen several Social Democrats appear on Veteran Day on 29 May. Last year, no one else gave a very good speech than Prime Minister Stefan Löfven himself. Surprisingly, however, when it comes to political decisions in this House and the government, the commitment of the present government is not as great. Thus, the veteran law entered into force on 1 January 2011 was rejected. They said no to the establishment of medals for injured veterans and for veterans who had made outstanding efforts abroad. They said no to family support, they said no to a veteran unit at headquarters, they said no to veteran monuments and they even said no to national veteran day. The second veteran investigation, which was presented a few years ago, has chosen, in accordance with previous actions, to make no proposals whatsoever from the present government. The Swedish Parliament has announced to the government that veteran investigation number two and its proposal should be brought to Parliament, but this has not yet had any effect. In its latest report, the second Veteran investigation suggested that on 29 May it would be a flag day for Sweden's veterans. This has since been retrained by Annicka Engblom, Andreas Norlén and others, and the commitment has been broad. Now we are in this House with a proposal for a flag day. It is something that, in my opinion, has no budgetary impact whatsoever and does not involve any increase in expenditure on the Swedish state, yet the Social Democrats and probably the Green Party choose to say no to this proposal. It amazes me very much, Mr. Old President. I will conclude by saying that I hope that the government will follow the announcements made by Parliament in relation to veteran policy as a whole. And as Mrs Engblom pointed out, Zaida Catalán and the terrible thing that happened to her should prompt the government to propose that the civilian veterans should also receive the same help and support that the military veterans receive today. Neither has the government. Mr. Old President! Our nurses, our aid workers and our rescue workers on international missions are as vulnerable and vulnerable as our military veterans, and they deserve the same help and support. Mr. Old President! I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-649	Mr. Old President! I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. We Christian Democrats stress in our policy that societies are based on common values, such as the equal rights and value of all people. These are values that must be upheld and justified. We believe that strengthening veteran day by making it a general flag day is wise and desirable. It strengthens the memory of those who have fallen and died, and it reminds us that all those who do and have made contributions for Sweden are people with families and relatives. These are families who sometimes have to worry about the safety and security of their family members, and they are families that sometimes even lose a family member. In solidarity with them and in honour of the people who are doing and have made efforts for Sweden, a flag day would be a step in the right direction. Through a flag day, we strengthen human life at a time when computer games and action films rather a he-manify, among other things, military efforts. A flag day would be a reminder of why the veterans are worthy of honor.
i-DtXzYPv9GBYorsqenELMiV	Mr. Old President! Until yesterday afternoon, the majority of the committee agreed to propose that the Riksdag should reject all motions dealt with in the report KU19 Public holidays. Motion requests concern veteran's day as a public flag day, a national flag, flag times, EU flag, national symbols, public holidays, a memorial day dedicated to the victims of Communism, a civil courage prize and kebab pizza's day. The committee rejected, according to practice and after simplified preparation, a number of requests for motion relating to the same, or essentially the same, issues which it dealt with earlier in the parliamentary term. The report contained four reservations from the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats. There were also two special opinions from the Swedish Democrats and the Liberals. Mr. Old President! Late yesterday afternoon, I and the public read through news sites that the Center Party had changed its mind on the issue of veteran day, at least according to Annie Lööf's press secretary, and that the Center Party would now vote for veteran day on 29 May to become official flag day. Just before noon. 19 last night there was an email confirming this. Today at 2.30 p.m., I received a message stating that it is intended to investigate the possibility of making veteran day a public flag day. It's hard to keep up with the turns. It is problematic that what is happening now is changing the committee's entire practice of simplifying exercise management. Now it is very uncertain how future practices on similar issues should be dealt with in committee. It is in every way important contributions from the veterans. It's not about anything else. They have made and are making great efforts for the country, not least in the peace-keeping efforts. During this term of office, we in the S Group have attached great importance to the fact that, as a committee, we have been able to discuss matters openly in committee and agree at the negotiating table. Something else is not worthy of a committee which attaches great importance to joint and democratic decision-making. We therefore want a referral back to the KU so that the veteran's day can be discussed openly in committee and prepared in the usual way, which has not been done now. A re-referral also gives us the opportunity to find a common position after proper preparation. I think the question is worth it. Having said that, Mr President-in-Office, the S Group is calling for the report to be referred back to the KU.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-658	Mr. Old President! Veronica Lindholm points out that the report has not been prepared in the usual way. It's been done. It has been prepared in the usual way and according to all the rules of art. The fact that the Center Party has considered an extra lap on this issue honors them. They are behind the veteran policy, which we implemented from 2009, they have supported the policy that has been put forward in the veteran investigations and now they are also behind the proposal to make veteran day a public flag day. I understand Veronica Lindholm so that it is the procedure that disturbs the Social Democrats rather than the issue itself. What does a referral mean? Should I interpret Veronica Lindholm's talk of a re-referendum as wanting to do it and end up in something else? Or should I interpret it as, as I hope and believe, or at least hope, that it also means that the Social Democrats are moving the position on the matter and will support the proposal and that, if so, they will be on this side of the development of defence policy for the first time?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-661	Mr. Old President! Thank you for asking. Had the committee discussed veteran's day as a general flag day much wider and deeper, the Social Democrats might have been able to give their support at the sitting table. It wasn't done. We split up pretty quickly into yes or no to veteran day, and then we left the point.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-663	Mr. Old President! I'm waiting for a continuation. I do not really know what Veronica Lindholm means. Is it that it would be up to the proposers to raise the discussion? After all, we have included the proposal in the report procedure all the way. We have had one, two, three, four processes and procedures in committee. There have been one, two, three, four long meetings, which we often have in the Constitutional Committee, to ask questions and to think about this, as the other parties have done. But apparently that's not enough. I think it is basically a question of understanding the scope of this issue and getting a little cold feet. There is every possibility, instead of sending this back to committee, of doing the right thing, namely supporting the motion, as well as the Centre Party, Liberals, Christian Democrats, Moderates and Swedish Democrats, at four o'clock this afternoon when we press the buttons. We have discussed this. Obviously, the Social Democrats are getting cold feet. Welcome to press the no button this afternoon at four o'clock! It's the right thing to do.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-667	Mr. Old President! I hear what Annicka says. As I said, we could have discussed the issue in greater depth. If we get a referral back and a majority on the issue in committee, the Social Democrats should not slow the matter down, but we need to discuss it properly. Maybe it's a pleasure for Annicka.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-668	I would like to inform you that the referral will be decided by today's vote at 2.30 p.m. 4 p.m.
i-2zcVM7oAmS5JjtovR6ZMv7	Mr. Old President! The debate in the Constitutional Committee on our issue of public holidays has mainly concerned those motions for an announcement from the Riksdag to the Government to investigate the possibility of making veteran day a general flag day. I have highlighted in the debate the importance of commemorating veteran's day, which since 2008 has been organised by the Swedish Armed Forces on 29 May each year. Our country should, of course, pay tribute in various ways to personnel who have participated and who participate in national and international military operations and commemorate those who have died and died. Since 2011, the annual commemoration has been in a state ceremonial form with the participation of representatives of the Royal House, state authorities and defence non-profit partner organisations. Those who exercise believe that making veteran day a public flag day would be a way for those who cannot participate in the official state ceremonies to show their appreciation by raising their private flag to Sweden's military veterans on 29 May. As I have said, it is important for the country to commemorate our military veterans. But private flagging on veteran's day doesn't assume it's a public flag day. You can very well show your appreciation and honor our veterans by flagning on veteran day without it being a public flag day. This can happen, for example, on 29 May this year without a decision being taken. As I see it, there are no longer so many people who keep track of the national flag days that we have. Those who do are mainly military and government. Unfortunately, private flagging on public days has been reduced. Possibly, the commitment to making veteran day a public flag day that has been awakened in recent days on Facebook and in my mailbox can show that interest in public holidays has increased in the country. In that case, it's good. I would like to see more blue-yellow flags around the country on the public flag days. In our debate in the Constitutional Committee, I have been careful that I and the Center Party wish to honour and celebrate our military veterans. But I understand that in the political debate of some outside our committee we have been discredited for not wanting to do so. The decision shall be taken in the vote of the Riksdag this afternoon. We in the Center Party have been impressed by the debate. We do not want to create any misunderstandings about our attitude towards honouring the military veterans. That is why we will be voting in favour of the proposal for an announcement to the government contained in reservation 1. We therefore believe that the government should investigate the possibility of making Veteran Day on 29 May a general flag day. ..................................................... To Veronica Lindholm, I would like to say that I value the way we discuss and prepare matters in the KU. Of course, it would have been better if I had been able to give a message about the decision that the Center Group later took, but I did not have that message at the time. Mr. Old President! Since the position of the Center Party on this matter may affect the position of the Riksdag in comparison with the proposal of the Constitutional Committee, I request that the Riksdag issue an announcement to the Government in accordance with reservation 1 under paragraph 1 on Veteran Day as a general flag day.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-678	Mr. Old President! I do not intend to prolong the debate. However, for the sake of good order, I would like to call for a rejection of the motion for referral back to the Constitutional Committee made earlier in the debate. I would also like to point out that the issue of veteran's day as a general flag day has been the subject of an investigation and consultation.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-679	Mr. Old President! We have now reached the Constitutional Committee's 22 report on electoral issues. In this report, the Swedish Democrats have two reservations which I intend to dwell on – reservation 2 and reservation 3, to which I request approval. I intend to start with something as unique as talking about a reservation that we have written on the occasion of a motion from the Moderates dealing with the importance of Swedish citizenship. It is a motion signed by no less than 14 Moderates, including two members of the Constitutional Committee. Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by quoting a paragraph from this motion. Among other things, the exercisers write: 中 An important part of this new regulatory framework must be the gradual participation of social rights in society, and full rights will only be obtained once you have become a citizen. At the same time, citizenship must be more clearly associated with certain conditions and not automatically distributed even after a short time in the country. Citizenship simply needs to be given greater value than it is today and there must be a clearer distinction between being a citizen and not being a citizen. The right to vote and to stand as a candidate in both parliamentary and municipal elections should of course be linked to citizenship. ..................................................... Then, in their exercise, the athletes list several proposals for measures to strengthen the importance of citizenship. This is essentially the same type of proposal that the Swedish Democrats have had for a long time. Proposal No. 5 in the motion is about linking the right to vote and the right to stand as a candidate to both the Riksdag and the municipalities. Only Swedish citizens are allowed to vote and stand in elections in Sweden, we see from the Swedish Democrats – and also the 14 Moderates who have actually signed the motion – as a matter of course. Mr. Old President! Unfortunately, the moderate party has chosen not to stand up for the movement of its fellow party members, which we Swedish democrats with this reservation therefore choose to do.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-687	At each election there is some form of election fraud. One of the most common is likely that ballot papers will disappear from the polling stations. Individuals who do not respect democracy often do not shy away from simply throwing away the ballots of a party they do not like. Another relatively common problem is that one party's ballot papers are placed over another party's ballot papers. As a result, anyone who, by habit, picks a ballot from all parties into the ballot box risks standing there without a ballot from the party for which it was intended to vote. By means of a system of joint ballots, at least for the parliamentary parties, this type of cheating would cease completely. It would also reinforce the electoral secret, as it would be impossible to figure out which party a person votes for based on a glance at which ballot box he takes with him into the electoral booth. The problem of people being or feeling supervised when taking ballot papers in the polling stations has also been highlighted by the Election Authority, which believes that the problem is growing over time. This suggests that the option currently available to use blank ballots and to write the party name is not sufficient. The question of how Sweden can strengthen the electoral secret has been investigated. Unfortunately, the investigator has concluded that a system where ballot papers are placed directly in the booths would be a better model than today's when they often stand in the polling station. Should such a solution become a reality, it is likely to lead to the disappearance of even more ballots, since, unlike today, the ballots could be taken without transparency and thus with minimal risk of detection. However, with the exception of our verige democrats, all the other parties are critical of replacing today's system of separate ballots for each party with a system of a common ballot. The reasons given are concise. Reference is made to the investigation that I have just mentioned – an investigation that does not even seem to have considered joint ballots as an alternative, but instead comes up with proposals that are more likely to significantly impair the secret of elections. Mr. Old President! In our constitution, it is written that the Riksdag is elected by free, secret and direct elections. The Swedish democrats think it is high time that we now also try to live up to it.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-696	Mr. Old President! We are therefore dealing with a motion for a resolution on various electoral issues. It is gratifying that the vast majority of parties here want to increase the opportunities to vote and want to see that more people can participate in the democratic process. That's very good. A functioning democracy presupposes that everyone actually feels that they can make their voice heard. The Government Office is now preparing the report of the Democracy Investigation Let more shape the future! The introduction to the report states, among other things, that socio-economically weak groups vote to a lesser extent and have less political influence than groups that are also strong in other contexts. This is not a satisfactory situation. It goes on to say that actual class divisions, ethnic and educational exclusion and housing segregation have created a situation where those most in need of politically generated measures find it most difficult to enter political assemblies. Not least for these groups, new ways are needed into politics. ..................................................... The investigation is under preparation in the Government Office. There are several suggestions in the investigation. These include proposals on the conditions for elected representatives in municipalities, proposals on the possibility of influencing the political decision-making process between the elections at national level and proposals on the local civil dialogue. There is also discussion about the parties' responsibility to broaden representation, the need to improve opportunities for foreign Swedes, and there are proposals to carry out trials with voting rights from 16 years to the municipal council of some municipalities. High turnout is important for the democratic system. It is also good that the committee agrees that we need to increase voting turnout. A united committee agrees that the question of increasing the turnout of foreign Swedes should be specifically addressed. There is a joint announcement that the government should look at this issue. In addition to the proposals of the Democracy Investigation, it is pointed out that it does not wish to pre-empt the preparation in the Government Office. It is regrettable that when it comes to the proposal about actually creating good habits and ensuring that young people get involved, it is said that one should not anticipate. The proposal to introduce experiments in some municipalities with a right to vote from 16 years to the municipal council is a proposal that would allow the school to influence those groups that are absolutely the furthest from participating in democracy and to ensure that they are better placed. As the investigation says, class divisions, ethnic and educational exclusion and housing segregation affect very much the opportunity to participate in democracy. To then carry out experiments where from 16 years of age you can participate in elections would be very good to create a habit to do so. Now that would not mean that all 16-year-olds are allowed to vote, but it is elections every four years. The cut age would be 18 for the first time in a vote. As it is today, it is 20 years. When you have election campaigns in schools and it is being worked in high school in connection with the elections, there are a lot of people there who are not affected by the fact that there is soon an election. The opportunity to lay a good foundation increases, of course, the more those who attend high school who also have the opportunity to vote. Therefore, it would be very good to try in municipalities. There are experiences from other countries where it works very well. Our view is that we should also carry out experiments in Sweden. That is why, on behalf of the Left, I support reservation No 1.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-703	Mr. Old President! The Constitutional Committee rejects the proposal to reduce the voting age to 16 years. The arguments for and against reduced voting age are worth considering. The arguments for a reduced voting age include, for example, that early constitutional behaviour leads to a continued high turnout. On the other hand, it is known that voting turnout among first-time voters is lower, and therefore voting turnout would probably fall on the total. The issue is therefore complex and, in our view, requires a thorough investigation. A high turnout is important among all groups. Voting turnout should therefore be encouraged in groups with lower voting turnout. This applies, for example, to people with foreign background, socially vulnerable persons or citizens living abroad. Specific measures are required to lower the thresholds for these groups. That is why we are in favour of an announcement to the government of measures to increase the turnout of foreign Swedes. Of course, without some irony we cannot fail to see that the motion is based on criticism of how the 2014 elections were organised by the foreign authorities. Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister of State was then, as you know, Moderate Carl Bildt. But, of course, we value self-criticism and we call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-706	Mr. Old President! The report deals with 38 motions in this area. I will remain solely at paragraph 5 on the increase in the turnout of foreign Swedes. Rules on the right to vote of foreign Swedes were introduced as early as 1968. Since 1998, all Swedish citizens who have been registered in Sweden have the right to vote. Those who have been written in Sweden at some point in the last ten years are also automatically taken up on the electoral roll. After the ten years, however, something active is required, namely a notification which must also be made every ten years to remain on this electoral roll. According to the organization Swedes in the World, there are currently about 660 000 Swedes living abroad. It is reasonable to imagine that this figure will increase over time, not least in view of the fact that the younger generation is more studying or working in another country. The development of the labour market – which is becoming tighter and does not feel national borders in the same way – is also in favour of such a development. At the 2015 elections there were 161 269 people on this electoral roll. So it is a small proportion of all foreign Swedes who are busy. This may be due to the person's age or the fact that the person concerned has lived abroad for more than ten years and has not signed up to remain on the electoral roll. The democracy inquiry, as we have just heard, pointed out that the turnout of foreign Swedes is low. In recent elections, as few as a third of foreign Swedes have chosen to vote. At the 2014 elections, approximately 35 600 of those on the electoral roll voted. That's about 22%. Of course, there may be many reasons for that. However, if it is due to obstacles that we as legislators can influence, we must improve the conditions for voting. That is precisely why we Moderates put forward a proposal for measures to improve the turnout of foreign Swedes. It is gratifying that a united constitutional committee finally chose to support this. What, then, are we proposing? Firstly, like what the Democracy Investigation suggested, we want to look at the opening hours of Swedish foreign authorities and consulates. If opening hours are not in line with the wishes and conditions of those who are to vote, it will also have an immediate effect on voting turnout. If a polling station is open every other Saturday, every other Sunday or perhaps in the morning and it is necessary to take time off from work, voting turnout will be low. We must make it easier for embassies and honorary consulates to be open when the need arises. This is one thing that could easily be addressed by 2018. It works well in many places, but there are improvement measures to take on others. There is a RUT report that was carried out in 2015 that looked at the times of voice reception at twelve foreign authorities in different parts of the world. There we saw that there were shortcomings which we think need to be addressed. Secondly, it is about what information is being sent out. Of course it's sent out information, but everything can get better. If there are questions about where to vote, when to vote and how to vote, these are things that could easily be addressed. We assume that in 2018 there will be an even stronger information effort from the Election Authority and the relevant foreign authorities to ensure that more foreign Swedes will go to the polling station and vote. The aim and objective must be that it is a priority to increase the turnout of foreign Swedes. Thirdly, we want to review the rules on letter voting. Today it is not possible for a foreign Swede who is visiting Sweden to post his vote here. Therefore, better information is needed about which rules apply for letter voting, so that you do not go to Sweden without first knowing what applies. There is also a need to provide information about what is required – if you need a double chest card and the like. You have to make sure that the information reaches out to the foreign Swedes. We think that these are fairly easy things to fix and facilitate. It does not really require much work in addition to a concerted effort to provide information and to deal with how letter voting can be made more effective. Of course, it is gratifying that the committee agrees in its position, but even if these measures are already being taken in the run-up to the 2018 elections, there is, in my opinion, a need for greater reforms than that in the subsequent elections – if we look forward to 2022 and 2026. It is good to change the opening hours for voting, but there may still be problems for the foreign Swedish who live far from the polling station and who find it difficult to get there even if it is open for more weekends or after noon. 5 p.m. and 5 p.m. 18. Perhaps something quite different is needed. In any case, as society becomes increasingly digitised, I think that in the near future the issue of e-voting needs to be raised. However, this obviously requires careful consideration and consideration. Mr. Old President! I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-722	Mr. Old President! We are now dealing with KU22 Election Questions. It is a motion report with 38 requests for exercise from the general period of exercise. It addresses many interesting issues, including experiments with voting rights from 16 years of age, election observers, eligibility, electoral secrecy and ballot papers, and voting turnout for foreign Swedes. During the process, we in the committee have received interesting information from the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness, which has told us about the work on information security and the impact on information that they are doing ahead of the 2018 elections. The movements raise interesting questions about democracy and the development of democracy. With regard to the question of voting rights from 16 years ago, there was, as many here have already mentioned, a proposal in the report of the Democracy Investigation concerning precisely a 16-year trial of voting rights. The democracy investigator pointed out the attempts that have been made in other countries and who suggested that if you are allowed to vote for the first time when you live at home, it is more likely that then in a future, after you have left home, you will continue to vote. I have personally seen what happened to one of my children, who was born on September 23rd. She was almost 22 years old before she could vote for the first time. She had then had time to work, to study, to leave home and to live abroad. But she had to wait so long to vote. I can really feel that this would be good in so many ways. 16-year-olds can also vote in church elections. I can therefore agree with you that there are good arguments for pushing such an attempt. At the same time, the investigation proposal is not perfect. There are many referrals that are interesting to take in. It's about how a trial like this is to be evaluated. How can you explain that some 16-year-olds are allowed to vote but not others in other municipalities? I know that the government is really struggling with many of these issues. That is why I think it is good that the government should have this time to prepare the questions so that nothing can be done prematurely. One problem that has been highlighted for a long time is the international criticism that has been about the difficulty of having an election secret when you have to pick the ballot papers publicly. We have had such a system for a long time, and many have chosen to bring ballots from home to the polling station or to take a ballot from each party with them into the booth. It's a system that hasn't been perfect. Instead, for the next election you will be allowed to have ballot papers inside the booth. Hopefully this will be a good way to protect the electoral secret, but this too will have to be evaluated. Finally, I shall comment on the committee's proposal for an announcement. We fully support the proposal on, among other things, increased opening hours and better information at embassies in order to increase voting turnout among foreign Swedes. I feel that this is an issue that is becoming more important and important as more and more young people choose to study abroad and that more and more Swedes generally choose to work or spend longer time abroad for various reasons. There are an incredible number of embassies who take a great deal of responsibility when it comes to these issues. I myself took part in an election debate organised by the Embassy in London to draw attention to the turnout and get more people to vote. I know that many parties choose to have their own party organisations in different municipalities abroad where there are many foreign Swedes. That's good. Here we will have to do much more jointly, both party organisations and embassies. However, I think that the proposal for a declaration is a step in the right direction. It is important for democracy to develop, and it is important that more people can have confidence in institutions and the public. The motion report we are discussing today is a step in the right direction. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-731	Mr. Old President! Agneta Börjesson from the Green Party mentioned a little about our motion on joint ballots. She talks about the system of ballot papers and the investigation that has now come to the conclusion that the ballot papers should be placed directly in the ballot box. When I read the committee's report, I try to understand the line of argument with regard to our motion. It points out that it would be a better option for all ballot papers to be hidden. This brings with it some other concerns, including the point I made in my speech that there is an increased risk of more than before of stealing ballots and the disappearance of ballot papers. I would like to give Agneta Börjesson a chance to develop her reasoning on this and how she discusses our exercise.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-734	Mr. Old President! Jonas Millard raises a big question. There are other countries that have this type of ballot paper, but introducing the same system in Sweden is not simply and would probably require a much greater investigation than the one that needed to be added so quickly to guarantee the election secret to the next election. It is about which parties should be allowed to appear on that list. Should it only be those who sit in Parliament now, or should it be the parties that have achieved a certain percentage? There are a number of issues that such an investigation would need to highlight, and that is nothing that has been done. I think it would be very premature if we in committee were now to raise such issues.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-736	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Agneta Börjesson, for your answer! I find that you are still not completely dismissing the idea of looking in the future at the issue of joint ballots. As Agneta Börjesson says, they have this system in other countries. I would like to recall that Denmark has had it since at least 2002, and it obviously works. I personally find it very difficult to see any drawbacks whatsoever to the fact that all parties simply have a ballot that is shared, because it will then be impossible to throw or steal ballots while guaranteeing the secret of the elections because it is not possible to track down who someone votes for when they bring a ballot note for all parties into the ballot box. It is a system that I think is a much greater guarantor of electoral secrecy than the proposal that is now on the table and that is currently being prepared in the Government Office, as I understand it. Whether it is the next election that you have the ballot papers in the ballot box is not yet quite clear, but since I still interpret Agneta Börjesson's answer as not completely dismissing the idea, I would like to ask a final question. It is if Agneta Börjesson can at least consider the issue of joint ballots. I would like to see it looked at already in the investigation that has now been presented, but would Agneta Börjesson be prepared to investigate the issue?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-739	Mr. Old President! I can see more difficulties than simplifications in making such a type of ballot in Sweden, so I am not prepared today to say that I would like to investigate something like that. But I do not rule out that things can change in the future.
i-WPDHdLQCAdbEaAiyatonRv	Mr. Old President! The Constitutional Committee's report is based on 28 motions on election issues. As part of the preparation, the Constitutional Committee has invited the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency. We received information from MSB in the Constitutional Committee on 21 March about the Agency's work on information security and information impact issues ahead of the 2018 elections. It was important and interesting information. Several motions in this report concern questions of electoral secrecy and ballot papers. These are issues that have recently been investigated by the 2015 Election Act investigation. I myself have been active in the criticism of how it works in the polling stations. I have also participated in the investigation work on this. My assessment is that there may be a need for more election officers in the premises in order to keep the order needed to ensure that the electoral secret can be maintained and that the ballot papers can be provided to the voters in a good way. The Constitutional Committee does not want to pre-empt the government's preparation of the election law investigation proposal. We expect that the proposals of the Election Act investigation can be prepared by the Government and decided by the Riksdag so that they can apply before the 2018 elections. In a committee motion by Andreas Norlén and others, there is a request for announcements about increased opening hours for voting in Swedish embassies, about improved information to foreign Swedes about the rules for voting, that a high turnout among foreign Swedes should be a high priority task for the foreign authorities and also that letter voting from Sweden should be possible. During the preparatory work, the Constitutional Committee unanimously decided to support the motions in this motion as an announcement to the government. I welcome that. It should be a basis for the government, through the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Election Authority, to prepare these improvements as soon as possible for the opportunities for foreign Swedes to vote in next year's elections. Mr. Old President! I call for the proposal of the Constitutional Committee to be endorsed in the report.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-743	Mr. Old President! This is an interesting report on electoral issues. With regard to paragraph 5, the committee proposes an announcement on measures to increase the turnout of foreign Swedes. This is very gratifying because the turnout among foreign Swedes is low. Increased accessibility would be likely to lead to a higher turnout, and accessibility should therefore be improved in the run-up to forthcoming elections. It seems unnecessary to repeat a great deal of the arguments put forward by Patrick Reslow from the Moderates, so I am content to say that the Christian Democrats support the committee's proposal.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-745	Mr. Old President! We now have to discuss SCU25 Value Added Tax. It is a report that bears on the motions that were made during the general period of exercise the previous autumn. The VAT issue is on the agenda. It is a major issue in which we must relate to the EU's common VAT directive and to Swedish legislation. The VAT issue is characterised by a wide range of legislation and applications that can sometimes be perceived as contradictory. The Swedish Parliament has on several occasions stated that the tax reform from the 1990s will change, and a number of changes have also been made in the field of VAT. This has created some form of patchwork, one might say, on the issue of VAT. We can see from various studies that, unfortunately, VAT is high on the list of companies' ranked administrative problems and burdens. Simplifying the daily lives of companies can create more companies and create more jobs, which ultimately also strengthens welfare. At a time when tax bases are becoming more and more mobile and where it becomes more difficult to find robust and efficient taxes, VAT will become an increasingly important tax base. For the Center Party, it is important that we can extend the simplification work in the area of VAT. It is therefore important that we have an investigation in place aimed at maintaining and extending the possibilities for more individual entrepreneurs to report their VAT annually. Today's system must be extended to smaller companies with cross-border trade. Mr. Old President! My picture is that the Swedish tax will is high. The voters have given us confidence as legislators. It is also our duty to ensure that tax is easy to pay. However, it is very important that the tax system is perceived as legitimate and fair. Different VAT rates for similar goods and services give rise to grey areas, which leads to the tax system being perceived as arbitrary and unfair. Differences in VAT levels are not and have not always been logically justified. The VAT level at, for example, a music concert where the audience only listens to the music is 6 percent. As soon as the audience in addition to listening wants to move to the music, the VAT level is 25 percent. Another example is the introduction by the Alliance of the Center Party of the same rate of VAT on food at the restaurant visit as at the grocery store. It's just to say that it's possible to make a difference and do the right thing – it depends on the will. Having said that, I can see that at the end of the year, from 6 % to 25 %, the value added tax for cinema visits was increased. The government's policy thus means an increased cost for cinema visitors of approximately SEK 240 million. It hits smaller cinemas hard, preferably in the countryside. This is unacceptable. Mr. Old President! Major and rapid changes are taking place in the media area. Digital development has many advantages, but the media world has been affected. This has meant that advertising money has moved to other places on the internet. Rapid action is now needed to secure access to professional local journalism. The advertising tax, which applies only to advertisements in printed commercial media, needs to be abolished so that the tax on printed and digital media is treated equally. This equal treatment of the media must also apply to VAT. Mr. Old President! The different tax rates have real consequences for the companies that are required to pay the taxes and need to administer the different tax rates. Swedish companies report that the administration of different tax rates is a major obstacle. The differentiated VAT rates are a problem for businesses, especially for the smallest ones. An average Swedish company spends 120 hours each year administering taxes. It is unfortunate that so much time is taken from the core business. Transparency, simplicity, efficiency and predictability must be the guiding principle of the tax system. It should be easy to pay taxes, and it should be clear which taxes apply to goods and services. Tax administration shall not prevent companies from engaging in their core business. Against this background, it is a good thing that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has, in many respects, adopted a coherent approach to these issues. Finally, I would like to endorse the Center's reservation No 2. Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Alliance; speakers after me will be in favour of these.
i-N3yfvn6RCL4gkPBBP5jkTV	Mr. Old President! I shall begin by calling for the approval of our reservation No 1. Value added tax or VAT, which we have used to calling this form of taxation, is a tax on consumption paid by the final consumer by a good or a service. Total value added tax is estimated to bring about SEK 414 billion to the Treasury this year. It is thus the second largest source of income for the state after employers' contributions, which amount to approximately 542 billion. Thus, VAT accounts for approximately 33 per cent of the central government's total tax revenue in 2017, if you include contributions to the old-age pension system, or 41 per cent. The fact that VAT is a very important source for the State is therefore beyond doubt. In this light, it is also important to note that we do not ourselves control all parts of our own VAT system. The EU regulates Member States' VAT management through the so-called VAT Directive. The aim is to harmonise the VAT base in the Union in order to create a uniform procedure and thereby reduce the incentives for inaccuracies in intra-EU trade in VAT. The VAT Directive regulates the use of VAT. It is implemented in Swedish law through the VAT Act. However, the levels of VAT rates are determined by each Member State. There is currently a review of the VAT law to clarify it and ensure that it complies with the EU directive. Mr. Old President! It can therefore be said that Sweden, like the other Member States, has no control over how we use different VAT rates for different activities. In addition to tying up Sweden's ability to decide over its own taxation, it has a lot of absurd effects. This situation, along with many other trends in the EU bureaucracy, poses a potential threat to our national sovereignty. The EU, on the other hand, has a role to play in this area in proposing measures to reduce VAT fraud. In that paragraph there is work going on within the EU, and that is a good thing. Mr. Old President! The parliamentary year's motion on VAT reflects these conditions and effects. A total of 34 motions have been submitted on various VAT issues. The Swedish Democrats are responsible for 7 of these. Many sports involve the same or similar problems, and the most common question is about our ability to achieve a level playing field for VAT in the tourism industry and in the cultural field. Here it is about that Sweden does not have the right to choose to put the same low VAT on printed books and e-books, for example, or that we may not have the same low VAT on the rent of berths in a guest harbour as for caravans at a campsite. But other issues in the field of VAT are also concerned. Our VAT activities deal with many important aspects. In the committee work, however, we have chosen to concentrate on our committee exercise on tourism and the tourism industry, which is a very important development industry with great potential to create a lot of new jobs in Sweden. The hospitality industries are already very important to our country and provide many people with their daily livelihoods. It also delivers significant amounts to the Swedish Treasury, not least by attracting foreign tourists to the country and thereby making a strong contribution to a positive balance of service. Our nature creates unique conditions for nature tourism, which is considered very interesting not least abroad. Interest in Sweden is relatively large in the outside world. However, according to the World Economic Forum, Sweden's attractiveness abroad has slipped from fifth place in 2011 to position 23 out of about 150 compared countries in 2016. We must therefore act to build the conditions that enable our tourism industry to develop without complicated and illogical tax rules. The industry organisations believe in Sweden, and the national strategy for Swedish tourism has set the target of having a turnover of SEK 500 billion by 2020. There is interest abroad, there is confidence in the future and from the Swedish Democrats we act to secure the political will here in the Swedish Parliament. The VAT issue is part of that work. Mr. Old President! Our reservation is about a number of highly illogical situations with differentiated VAT rates that create unnecessary differences in costs between different variants of similar businesses. They thus create unsound competition. These differences are detrimental to small-scale nature and cultural tourism, which is mainly found in rural areas. Today's system is cumbersome and bureaucratic and puts the most labour-intensive parts of these sectors at a disadvantage. Some examples of the limiting and harmful differences in VAT rates that we address in our reservation are: Mr. Old President! These are absurdities that should not exist in a tax system. We cannot have that in Sweden, in our opinion. We must ensure that activities of a similar nature are taxed equally, whether outside or inside, dancing or simply listening to music, or reading a book with the text printed on paper or assimilation in electronic form. The Swedish Democrats believe that it is high time to review these bordering problems. A review of VAT rates is certainly under way in the EU, but given that this may take a long time, it is justified to carry out a national review as a matter of urgency.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-773	Mr. Old President! Let me begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation 3 on the need to reduce VAT on e-books to 6%. The government's ambitions are good, but it is far too slow and ambitions are not enough. Strong action by the government is needed to put pressure on the EU. I think we all meet people around us who claim to be uninterested in politics, or at least not as interested as we are. It can be arguments like: It does not concern me and my life. You have a lot of kids, work, school. One may think it is too complicated and technical and that politicians often speak a language that goes over ordinary people's heads. One might think that all politicians are bandits, and of course there are some bandit also among politicians, but most of us are honest and decent and want to make Sweden better. VAT does not make it easier for people to take an interest in politics. It can be perceived as complicated, but is basically something that should be very important for people to take an interest in. VAT governs what milk and food costs and what it costs to eat in a restaurant. VAT governs who pays more or less in relation to their income for different necessities to survive. VAT also governs what we can afford in our common welfare sector. According to the 2016 budget, VAT accounts for nearly SEK 380 billion and over 20 per cent of society's total tax revenue. It is almost twice as much as the income from capital tax. Economists love VAT. They think that VAT is stable, it is paid by everyone, it gives large revenues to the state and it cannot be moved. It is good that there will be revenue for the state to finance the welfare with. But it is clear that there are also problems with VAT. It is not redistributive and not levelling. It does not lead to greater equality. It hits people on low incomes harder than people on high incomes. The importance of VAT is more important now than before the gigantic reductions in income taxes carried out in the bourgeois years. As I said, VAT also hits those with the thinnest wallet. We charge VAT and other taxes to pay for everything we think is important. We want good schools, and we want teachers to get paid more. We want good medical care, and we want the nurses to get higher salaries. We want nice roads. We want the police to come when we call, and we want the police to make enough money. When we talk about taxes, we have to talk about this and about the relationship between tax revenue and what we can get for them. Who benefits, and who is disadvantaged? Whose life is simplified, and whose life is made more difficult? Why does this percentage stand here and not there? Who pays for all that we want? In this context, I would like to say a few words about Nordea – because you have certainly not missed the latest scandal – and the increasingly favoured banking sector. The banking sector is also favoured with regard to VAT. Financial activities and financial services are exempt from VAT, and there are estimates that the banking sector is growing by up to 19 billion, according to Torbjörn Hållö. It's the same banks that break profit records on profit records and have huge dividends. It is the same banks that benefit from the implicit guarantee that allows them to take cheaper loans on the market. According to the Riksbank, the value of this is up to SEK 26 billion per year. Banks benefit from the recurring corporate tax reductions that we have seen in Sweden. A winner in the system is therefore the banks and Nordea because we have not been able to VAT financial services. Who benefits from it? Who's pulling in the big deal? And who gets to pay for the violins and pay for the banks not paying? I usually tell those around me that this is what politics is. This is what we have to decide, and that is why many more of the people I know are basically interested in politics and talk about politics all the time. This is what many talk about at the breakfast table, when they are out drinking beer, or when they pick up their children at preschool. As a left-wing party, I can promise all those who claim not to be interested in politics that we are fighting to increase and become progressive taxes on capital and real estate, so that those with good incomes will also be involved in paying. We are fighting to ensure that the large companies that with tax planning escape the tax will pay more. We are fighting for those with high incomes to contribute and contribute more to our common well-being than those with low income or no income at all. We are struggling to find ways for those with low incomes to keep more in their wallets and so that they too can have a freer life. We are fighting for Nordea to pay a higher resolution fee to secure financial stability, as it is called in economist's language. We now have a tax system that benefits large companies, those with high income and labour and those who can transform income and tax plans. It's a rigged system where the rich get away with low taxes and high deductions. If we are to build a fair and solidarity-based society with an economy for all, we must change that. That's what we want in the Left Party. That system includes VAT, and it is an important tax to withdraw.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-794	Mr. Old President! Sometimes I wonder if we humans have a preference for systems that are difficult to understand and difficult to comply with. Ideally, we seem to want the system itself to create a new labour market by people who will interpret the system that we have created in all its parts. The tax system in general but VAT in particular is a matter that requires its person to understand. Each part in itself can be clear, straight and easy to follow. But in a wider context of different VAT rates, industries, border trade and more, the simplest VAT rule becomes extremely complicated when working with the others. Swedish companies are increasingly trading on other markets than the Swedish one. This means not only that the Swedish VAT rules but also other countries' VAT rules should be taken into account by companies. We Christian Democrats have focused on trying to simplify VAT in one of the branches that is growing tremendously today: visiting, tourism and meeting industries. The Christian Democrats have long believed that the current system of different VAT rates is cumbersome and bureaucratic and that it puts the most labour-intensive parts of the tourism industry at a disadvantage. An important part of stimulating growth in tourism and the meeting industry is to simplify VAT and make the boundaries understandable to people who want to run businesses. If, from the point of view of VAT, the activities could also be divided into the four categories of food, accommodation, activities and transport, which are the basis of tourism, VAT for the self-employed would be more understandable and simple, or at least simpler, to manage. A number of measures are needed to stimulate growth in the tourism and conference industry. Reducing the regulatory burden and improving the tax situation of the tourism industry is an important part of this. The way in which VAT rates in the tourism sector can be harmonised should be reviewed. Tourism and other tourism is encouraged in different ways across the country, but the VAT framework does not facilitate work. Experiences have a VAT rate of 25 percent. Culture and transport are at 6%. The restaurant VAT has been halved to 12%, but for the meeting industry otherwise conference arrangements and associated services have a VAT rate of 25% while the accommodation part for conference participants is taxed by 12%. Some food served to conference participants is taxed by 12 percent, others by 25 percent. Special rules apply to non-profit associations and companies and study associations. My view and that of the Christian Democrats is that VAT should be easy to handle for both companies and individuals. Getting all this right requires one's person. And yes, with this system we have created at least one more job because someone is going to get into everything and account for all these different VAT rates. However, the burden on businesses is increasing, and perhaps the company that you believe in is not being set up for fear of the costs involved. It should be easy to start, run and develop businesses, not least small businesses. Every small business with its idea that we manage to get started and that creates new jobs requires a medal and an enormous amount of support and understanding from us in this House. I believe that an understanding of the VAT component is lacking in this House when we are going to take decisions. We believe that this should be reviewed. I think we should start with tourism, the visitor and meeting industry, which is on the rise and which is good for Sweden. But there are limits to be drawn. I'm sure we all get to a movie sometimes and see a movie. It is a pleasure that we share with about 2 1⁄2 million other visitors in Sweden. Cinemas have an increasingly tough market to compete in and need to develop cinema visitors' experience of the film in a cinema. This work requires foresight, endurance and stability. The government, on the other hand, has helped to create concern, impair cinemas' ability to compete in the market and hit sparsely populated areas, where the basis for visitors is smaller, and the concern should be greater. The government's policy means that VAT is being shocked from 6 to 25 percent. This means an increased cost for all cinema visitors of SEK 240 million. The government's compensation for cinemas in sparsely populated areas is SEK 25 million. Yes, you heard the difference: an increase of 240 million while the compensation is 25 million crowns. From this point of view, it must be considered insufficient. At the same time, the government's policy demonstrates its inability to understand that culture and entrepreneurship are interrelated. The increase in VAT hits many cinemas in rural areas hard. Film is part of cultural policy and should therefore have the same rate of VAT as other cultural activities. Everything else is unreasonable and unfair. A slogan used by the government is a fair and reasonable one. This does not apply to the bio-VAT. The Alliance therefore rejects the increase in VAT. Mr. Old President! I am, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but I would just like to endorse the Alliance's Amendment No 6.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-805	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the Sku25 report and, therefore, rejecting all requests for exercise in the field of VAT. This also means that I am calling for all reservations to be rejected in the report. In the 2016 Budget Bill, the Government assessed that the VAT Act should be reviewed to make the law more transparent and adapt the rules and concepts of the Act to the VAT Directive. During the second half of 2016, the Government has set up an investigation to make this review of the VAT system. The assignment shall be reported after the next election and no later than 1 April 2019. As is well known, VAT is governed by the Sixth EU VAT Directive. On 7 April 2016, the Commission presented an Action Plan on how to modernise VAT in the EU. The Commission says that the Action Plan is a first step towards a single EU VAT area that will be better equipped to combat fraud, support business and promote the digital economy and e-commerce.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-808	I do not think, Mr President-in-Office, that any party or Member of this House has anything against this, even the more extreme Brexit-lovers and opponents of the European Union. There are rarely greater battles on VAT issues, and that is good. We should seek more of collaboration and less of struggle around taxes as well as in other long-term issues that are important for Sweden as a nation. The Swedish tax system is the foundation of Swedish welfare. Through the tax, the state can provide everyone with equal opportunities for education and a better life. A large part of Sweden's welfare system is paid for by taxes. It is taxes that pay for health care, school, care for the elderly, defence, police, justice, and more. Value added tax, or VAT, as we often say, was estimated to account for about 41 per cent of the state's tax revenue in 2016. In 2015, there were approximately 1 million companies registered for VAT purposes. The VAT thus affects a large number of companies and they carry out several transactions of different types which are subject to VAT. A number of motions on VAT reductions have been submitted by various members from industry and various interest groups. The Lobbyist tradition in this area is appallingly strong. Each reduction and derogation generally gives rise to new requirements for reductions and derogations in adjacent areas. It should be acknowledged that neither the government nor my own party are completely immune to this disease. A proposal for a reduced VAT rate for nature guides will be included in the 2018 budget. Different VAT rates in certain related areas are, of course, contradictory. It is hoped that the work of the government and the new EU VAT directives will correct such problems. Mr. Old President! The basic question, however, is always: how should the tax reduction be financed? Small tax-reduction streams are happy to grow into large rivers, and should all the worthy proposals that have come in motion be taken into account, the VAT system would become an increasingly hollow Swiss cheese and sooner or later collapse. A move towards uniform VAT, as in Denmark, would probably be good in many ways. But there is still a long way to go, and I do not believe that this will be achieved otherwise than on the basis of a larger tax investigation, which must also take account of and be linked to the tax revenues that are needed in view of the demographic challenges facing Sweden. The report also includes a number of other motions. Of course, I would urge that the motion for a broader ROT deduction be rejected. This too is an example of how deductions and tax deductions give rise to new and extended demands – always more and never enough! Mr. Old President! I will now repeat Adnan Dibranis – it is really his debate – well-chosen closing words from last year's VAT debate: The question of sustainability is also a matter of VAT, which is a tax on our consumption. Discussions on VAT are a possible starting point for the development of a broader tax agreement. In it there are less ideological locks and a clear challenge in technological development that all parties must respond to. .....................................................
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-818	Mr. Old President! We are debating the Tax Committee's report on VAT. VAT is an essential part of the tax revenue received by the state to pay for welfare. For this year, 2017, VAT was reduced on easier repair services. Submitting the bicycle on repair will be subject to 12 percent VAT instead of 25. It's a half. The same applies to clothing, textiles and shoes. At the same time, the RUT deduction was also extended to include more services than before. The purpose of this is clear. On the one hand, we want to promote job creation and, on the other hand, we want it to be cheaper to repair and recycle. We will leave the slit-and-slip society behind us and instead strive for a circular economy, where we re-use products and materials to an increased extent. This is a first step. There is enormous power and potential in recycling and a circular sharing economy, which we have only just begun to date. Last week, a circular economy investigation was submitted to the government. It is an investigation with many interesting suggestions. The proposals concern, for example, strengthening second-hand trade and sharing and setting up a temporary delegation for the circular economy with actors from both politics and industry and other actors to formulate a national ambition in this area. One proposal is to introduce a hyber tax credit that allows a tax reduction to be applied when submitting consumer products for repair. According to the study, this proposal could lead to 15 000 new jobs. Another proposal is to promote car pools. It can be done in many different ways. Much of it is about criteria and clear definitions and not least the possibility for municipalities to set aside street land as car pool parking. However, there are also VAT-related issues in this respect. Public transport is subject to 6 per cent VAT, but car pool services are currently subject to 25 per cent VAT. Car pools are an excellent way to have access to cars with all the advantages it brings, but at the same time avoid many of the disadvantages it entails. In future, we may have reason to discuss whether we should view car pools as a form of public transport. The issue of reduced VAT on digital e-publications is sometimes discussed. The government is now working on the EU allowing this, which is a positive thing. The Minister for Finance and the Minister for Culture has stated in a debate article that this is something that we want to implement as soon as it is approved by the European Union. There is a logic in treating printed and digital publications in the same way. Not least in view of the problems we see in the media industry, this is very important. Mr President, I would like to The government has announced a proposal to reduce VAT on natural guides to 6%. There are many positive aspects to such a proposal. It is an important industry that has the potential to grow even more. It is also something that increases people's opportunities to share in natural experiences. With this, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-827	Mr President, I would like to The VAT issues that can be debated are indeed many. That's what we've heard here today. I will confine myself to four areas. The first issue I would like to raise is the bio-VAT. The government has chosen to shock the biomemps. Film is for us Moderates and the Alliance an excellent form of culture, with cinemas in almost the whole country. But through its film policy, the government turns its back on the industry as well as the biotits. Culture, as we have heard today, has reduced VAT, but for some reason that I do not really understand, the government does not see cinema visits as culture. We do moderates. That is why, of course, I am also behind the Alliance's reservation. There has already been an announcement on the issue of bio-VAT that a majority of the members of Parliament are behind. I therefore find it a little remarkable today that the Swedish Democrats have chosen to turn the countryside and cinema back – it is about the view of cinema as culture. The second issue, Mr President, which I would like to raise and which is where we differ from the Government's proposal, concerns the ban on the deduction of permanent residence. In connection with the large reception of refugees, the issue has been raised. Private companies that convert premises into housing for refugees suffer from outdated legislation. It leads to higher rents and a great uncertainty for property owners. A property owner may be liable for VAT ten years back when he converts a premises into refugee housing. Here in the Moderates, together with the rest of the Alliance, we want to review the legislation to modernise it. That is why I would like to support the Alliance's reservation No 6. The third question, Mr President, concerns impact assessments, which we have discussed quite a few times in this House. This is where the government is failing. Of course, most of the time it's flawed by the Ministry of Finance. Among other things, the impact assessment of VAT legislation on postal services failed. There was no analysis of competition neutrality. Today we have a state-owned company, Postnord, which is not liable for VAT and which, with this, has a competitive advantage that the other companies on the market do not have. Among other things, the Competition Authority has responded to this. The situation is unsustainable. We in the Alliance share the opinion of the Competition Authority. This could have been avoided with a proper impact assessment – this is also reflected in the Alliance's reservation. Finally, Mr President, I would like to highlight the regulatory simplifications for small businesses, those with under ten employees. The regulatory burden is at its greatest to bear for the smallest companies. The Moderates want them to be able to focus more on their core business rather than on forms and administration. We cannot afford to lose momentum in simplification. We know that four out of five jobs are added to small businesses. That is why we Moderates want to see how these smaller companies can be exempted from administration. We also want to review increased thresholds for simplified invoices in order to facilitate companies' handling of VAT. That is why, Mr President, I would like to support the Moderates' reservation No 8. To sum up the differences in this report, one can say that government policy is hitting culture. It hits the cinema owners, who compete with state museums. It hits entrepreneurs competing with state-owned companies. And it strikes small businesses, which suffer from more regulatory problems than if we had had a moderate-led alliance government.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-835	Mr President, I would like to I was a little surprised at Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby's attack on us on this issue, because the motion underlying our reservation mainly deals with tourism and VAT and very clearly addresses the problems that rural businesses and tourism face in this context. I can give you an example. Let me quote some of the motion that we have raised: The differentiated VAT rate in various tourism industries is problematic, as it leads to unnatural competitive advantages and puts small-scale nature and ecotourism at a disadvantage, which is mainly found in rural areas. For example, 6% of VAT is paid during a visit to a zoo, while 25% is paid for wild game watching in the open. ..................................................... How does Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby think this would be against the countryside? I'd like an explanation for that.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-838	Mr President, I would like to I did not question what was in the Swedish Democrats' motion. I asked for what was not there, namely a clear statement that the Swedish Democrats continue to support cinema visitors having the same VAT as those who visit other cultural events. I haven't dealt with what's in your reservation. But, as I said, Mr President, I am asking for what is not there. Biovisitors are currently required to pay a higher VAT rate than those who visit other cultural events. We also know that the government has made it free to visit state museums, which are located in big cities. The cinemas are in the countryside. We have previously agreed in the Swedish Parliament on an announcement that cinema visitors and cinemas in rural areas should have the same opportunities. It should be the same VAT as for other culture. This is a penalty tax for those living in rural areas who are unable to visit state museums, which the government is subsidising. That is why I ask again: have the Swedish Democrats turned the issue of reduced VAT on cinema visits, which you previously supported in a joint announcement in this House?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-841	Mr President, I would like to No, we certainly did not. However, in this report we have not reserved ourselves in favour of such a motion in any motion. We certainly have not changed our mind on this particular issue. But we have assessed the other pieces that we have lifted up in this context this year as even bigger and even more important. Of course, we still stand by the views we have had in the past on the issue of bio-VAT. I do not understand why we are making such a big deal that we are not lifting it up in this particular context. You can't bring everything at once. In that case, we would have to discuss this for several days here.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-843	Mr President, I would like to Olle Felten may find it strange that I am raising this particular issue. But I can promise Olle Felten that those who are out there visiting the cinemas do not understand why the Swedish Democrats today could not stand by their line. The behaviour of the Swedish democrats on this matter seems very strange. The question is: Can you trust that the Swedish Democrats will not turn the next time they vote on something that they have previously been involved in giving the government an announcement about?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-844	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is doing well – we all agree on that. But the upsurge in the Swedish economy that we are now seeing does not benefit everyone. Economic and social division is increasing. Differences between those who have jobs and those who do not have jobs are becoming clearer. Taxes are an important instrument for improving development and growth opportunities for different parts of the country, but also for people with weak economic conditions. An important reform is to regionalise tax bases so that resources available in different regions benefit the regions. It should pay to work, train and start a business. This principle followed the Alliance for eight years in power. The government has increased taxes to such an extent that Sweden tops the marginal tax league with a marginal tax rate of almost 70 per cent. Let me put Sweden's marginal taxes in an international context. Sweden has the highest marginal taxes on labour among OECD countries. In comparison with other countries with high marginal taxes, the Swedish breakpoints are also very low. Mr President, I would like to Government authorities also question the Ministry of Finance's assessment of results after tax changes. The Institute of Economics considers that the Ministry of Finance is overestimating the strengthening of public finances due to reduced job tax deductions and limited enumeration of the stratum of government income tax. This is because the changes in the rules may lead to lower taxable income than in the case of unchanged rules. ..................................................... The Council of Finance Ministers estimates that the government's tax increases will not lead to increased revenue. The fact that the government is now turning a blind eye to these effects risks creating holes in the public economy. Jobs are not being created in this Chamber. They are created by small and medium-sized enterprises around the country. Our task here is to give companies the right conditions for creating these jobs. The Center Party wants to see the tax scale made less steep so that it does not penalise education and work, which in that case risks not being able to and never benefit society. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party wants to see a green tax shift, where the polluter pays for his environmental damage and resources are used to reduce taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. In this way, a price is put on environmental degradation while tax revenues are returned to reduce the tax burden on things that have great socio-economic benefits, such as job creation in growing companies. This should be a guiding principle of fiscal policy in times of small margins in government finances. In government positions, the Center Party contributed to tax exchange. The tax on labour was reduced. At the same time, environmental taxes were increased and vehicle taxes were environmentally differentiated. This may be an example. The tax burden on labour decreased and the tax burden on pollution increased. In the budget motion presented by the Center Party last autumn, in other words 2016, we had further concrete proposals, and we will come back in this area. Mr President, I would like to Due to the steep rise in house prices, buying your first home is almost impossible in many places. It is often the cash bet that is an obstacle. Therefore, the cash wagering requirement should be reviewed. A prerequisite is that the amortisation rate of the mortgage increases at the same rate so that the buyer has a realistic picture of the housing costs. Specially targeted housing savings for young people would create incentives for young people to set aside part of their taxable income for future investment at an early age. The RUT reform celebrates 10 years this year. It has been a success story for jobs, for the economy and not least for integration. The Center Party has achieved a broadening of the RUT deduction, but we want to include more services and increase the deduction to SEK 75 000. Nearly half of all RUT employees are born abroad. We want to develop RUT so that more people can get jobs. This is very important for integration. Mr President, I would like to Travel deductions can be made by the user of a car to travel between the home and the workplace on the basis of certain criteria. The Center Party wants the system to be more environmentally friendly and to promote trips with low emissions of greenhouse gases and air pollution, while at the same time favouring the basic aim of the deduction, namely to promote work and housing throughout the country. The travel allowance should be reviewed in order to promote more environmentally friendly travel, accommodation and work in rural areas. Mr President, I would like to Today's media data on Skype moving 120 jobs from the country is an example of the need for our taxes to be competitive with the outside world. Swedish companies flag up difficulties in recruiting skills from other countries. Now that the UK and the US are closing their borders, Sweden is able to attract expertise from other countries, but this can only happen if we make it attractive for foreign companies and people to choose to establish themselves in Sweden. Let me also highlight the Alliance's exercise on employee options as an example. Sometimes it is difficult for companies to attract the necessary skills in the early stages. In many other countries, this problem is solved through various incentive schemes where people with key skills are given options, i.e. the right to buy shares in the company at a predetermined price. In order to create more owner-led companies and enable more companies to attract the right skills, it is important to improve the regulatory framework for employee options. The Alliance government began such work. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to support the Center Party's reservation 2. Of course, I agree with the other reservations expressed by the Center Party and the Alliance, but for time, I do not advocate approval here and now.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-863	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is doing well! Prosperity prevails, and our companies are full in their order books – lovely! It's going so well that companies are screaming for skilled labor. To be able to meet this need for more people to get the right skills and that more people actually choose to work more hours. It is not only companies that need trained and competent staff. There is a need for more police officers in the city streets and squares, nurses, doctors, teachers and sociologists, to name but a few professions that are lacking. The National Board of Health and Welfare submitted a report the other week showing that the shortage of specialist nurses is so great that it risks patient safety. Every third woman feels insecure in streets and squares, and the number of unauthorized teachers has never been so great. What, then, does the Red - Green government do to meet this need? Well, you raise taxes so that it becomes less profitable to train and less profitable to work for an extra hour. If the red-green government gets what it wants, it will have raised taxes by SEK 48.7 billion, according to the Ministry of Finance. From the Minister for Finance, it is said that there are marginal tax increases on jobs and growth. I can only say that the tax increases correspond in principle to the entire defence budget. Should it also be seen as marginal, perhaps? A total of 1.4 million people in Sweden now pay the extreme marginal tax, and more will be when they choose not to list the stratum of government income tax to the same extent. The government now announces that an additional 80 000 people will become high-income recipients in Sweden. Congratulations to the specialist nurse, midwife, the police who now belongs to this group of high-income Social Democrats! Now you get to keep as much as 40 kroner of the last one earned. It must feel nice after coming home after a night session in the emergency room, a messy Friday night outside the restaurant or a prolonged night in the maternity ward. I do not know, Mr President, whether the midwife sees herself as a high wage earner, at least I have not met anyone so far. What I face, however, is that more and more people choose time with children and family instead of working for 40 kroner an hour. Whatever the red-greens say, it is not possible to get away from taxes governing behaviour: what we want more of taxes we lower, and what we want less of taxes we tax higher. With the red-green tax policy, strongly motivated by the Left Party, one can only conclude that the current government neither wants more people to choose to train nor more hours worked. It simply pays too badly. It's about lose-lose instead of win-win, as Professor John Hassler describes it. It is tax increases that, according to the Council of Finance Ministers, lead to holes in the state budget rather than strengthening it. Mr President, I would like to Nor does the Red Green Government seem to appreciate the fact that people over 65 continue to work further. I received my own pension notice a while ago, and if I am to receive the same pension as the 2017 pensioners, it would be good if I continued to work until I became more than 67 years old. Between 2007 and 2015, the number of older people who chose to continue working increased, but in 2015 they decreased. The removal of the special wage tax by the Alliance – which the Red-Green Government has now chosen to reintroduce – was a major contributory factor. We could see that not least women chose to continue working. Here too, the government chooses to reduce companies' incentives to hire and retain older people even after the 65th anniversary. Despite a pressing need for more people who choose to continue working higher up the age group, the government meets this need by simply making it more expensive. Why should I choose to stay after 65 if it is obviously not appreciated, when instead I can enjoy a moment in the sun, perhaps Portugal in November to February, learn that language I did not learn or just have an extra moment with my grandchildren – something that the parents of young children would appreciate? Mr President, I would like to I began my speech by saying that Sweden is doing well now, and it is doing so. And it's so funny! But it doesn't for everyone. Despite a boom, there is a large group of people who are far removed from the labour market. It is people who have often come from another country without either knowledge of the Swedish language or their own education – even a primary education. In terms of education and training, meeting these with demands for upper secondary qualifications and vocational training can often make this part of the labour market far too long to get a first job in the new country. For this group of people to enter the labour market, jobs that do not require longer schooling are needed. The RUT industry is such an industry that offers just such jobs. The RUT reform, introduced by the Alliance, has created completely new jobs. Black jobs have become white, and a new entrepreneurship, not least among women and foreign born, has emerged. The employment effects of the RUT reform are clear. According to the Institute of Economic Development, the RUT deduction provides permanent higher employment and lower unemployment. The reform has so far created more than 20,000 new jobs. In addition, three out of four jobs have gone to people who have come directly from unemployment. According to estimates from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, a RUT-friendly policy would lead to another 16,000 new jobs. A month ago there were about 120 000 registered at the Public Employment Service, which belonged to that particular group, and they will not be fewer but unfortunately more. Then it will be especially difficult to understand the red-greens halving of the RUT deduction. The first job in the new country is the best way to quickly get into Swedish society, i.e. to go from exclusion to inside and to contribute instead of burdening. In a report that I have ordered from the parliamentary investigation service, it also appears that if a person goes from support to a job, it contributes 89 000 SEK in the municipal treasury. It should be very interesting even for Social Democratic councillors. The Director-General of the Employment Service is also strongly critical of the deterioration of the RUT deduction as it makes it difficult for the people who are farthest away from the labour market to enter. Instead, we Moderates propose that the RUT deduction be tripled so that it will be possible to make a deduction of SEK 75 000. The agreement with the government now includes more services. Unfortunately, the government chose at the same time to halve the deduction. More services that compete for the deduction and at the same time halve the deduction will be somewhat of a paradox if the idea is that more people will get a first job. In addition, neither migration services nor IT services are the jobs that make it easier for foreign-born women who have the toughest access to the market. At a seminar the other week, no one understood that Peter Persson was not entirely fond of the RUT sector. I wonder what Peter Persson's answer is to those foreign-born women who do not get a first job. The government's employment policy has not really pinked the market. The investment in extra services has so far generated a full job in Stockholm. Or is it that Peter Persson and his government would rather see that people are still in support instead of going to work? As things stand today, it is not always profitable to go from subsidies to jobs because even jobs with lower wages are taxed very highly. Even LO sees the problems. Yes, Mr President, Sweden is doing well now. That's good. There is a boom, and I am delighted! Many have a job to go to, but there is also a large group that does not have a job to go to. It is also gratifying that we are getting healthier and living longer. All in all, Mr President, this means that more people have to go from subsidies to work, more people have to work higher up the age group and more hours are needed. Then we need a government that appreciates instead of taxing jobs and growth. I would like to endorse the Moderates' reservation 4 and the Alliance's reservation 7.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-881	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. The Swedish democrats have a pragmatic approach to tax policy and see no importance in locking themselves at specific levels of taxation for ideological reasons. But we have ambitions in welfare and security, which do not allow taxes that are low from a global perspective. However, Sweden has had poor experience of having had the highest tax burden in the OECD area for some time. The Swedish Democrats also share the committee's view that fiscal policy should finance the common welfare, various social functions and other public expenditure, and create the conditions for stable and sustainable growth and high employment. Regarding income taxes – that is, today's debate on the committee's report No 22 – Sweden currently has marginal taxes where the highest levels are at world level. This risks hampering the willingness of employees to work more. Progressivity in income taxation is not wrong, but even if the highest marginal tax rate were to be reduced by 10 percentage points to 50 per cent, Sweden would still be significantly higher than the OECD average. That should not be an unreasonable objective. I would like to make it clear that the Swedish Democrats have not proposed this, so we are not free from sin either, but as an input into the debate it should not be an unreasonable objective. In order to continue with visions for major changes in tax policy, Sweden's democrats have recently begun to talk about low taxes on low incomes. This is due to the fact that there has been a debate on whether the so-called minimum wages are at a reasonable level in Sweden. In some places it is advocated that minimum wages be reduced. The argument is that if some, not least many newcomers who are far from the labour market, have a wage below the lowest level, and if wages are reduced sufficiently, these individuals would end up in employment rather than in exclusion, albeit to a lower wage. Instead, the counter-argument of workers' organisations, in particular, argues that lower minimum wages are detrimental to all employees and that people are at risk of falling into a so-called low-wage trap. Both arguments have some relevance. The research seems to be running a little bit. On the one hand, there are studies showing that the risk of people getting stuck in the low-wage trap actually exists and that this risk is much more obvious to women. On the other hand, there are studies showing that it is mainly young people who are eligible for low-wage jobs. As they grow older and gain work experience, they also advance in the wage market and leave low-wage jobs behind. In such a case, where there is certainly a certain proportion of low-wage jobs but where wage mobility is also fairly large, it is difficult to find arguments against the existence of low-wage jobs at both collective and individual levels. If at any given time there are a number of individuals who have relatively low wages, but when compared over time it turns out that they are not exactly the same individuals, then there is obviously a high degree of wage mobility that compensates for the lower initial salary through higher wages later in life, which also affects the pension. If, on the other hand, wage mobility is not apparent, problems arise. It is the view of the Swedish Democrats that in some places there is excessive confidence in this wage movement. We would therefore like to examine a model whereby, instead of reducing wages, income taxes are reduced on lower labour incomes. A starting point could be that no one pays income tax at all on taxed labour income up to SEK 150 000 per year. Our ambition to eliminate the tax gap between income from pensions and income from services is also maintained. Such a reform could have three consequences. Firstly, it will be more attractive to accept a job at low wages or a part-time job compared with, for example, support for subsistence, a-cash or equivalent, as it will be exempt from income tax. This leads to increased labour supply. Secondly, it will be cheaper for the company to hire because the employee is interested in his net salary rather than his gross salary. This leads to increased labour demand. Thirdly, there is a significant improvement in the standard of living of the lowest income decile. According to estimates, the 10 per cent with the lowest income receive a higher standard of living, which also leads to increased consumption. All these parameters guarantee separately and together for a rise in employment and would also make it more attractive to move from a black job to a white one. Such a tax reform would, of course, require quite substantial and extensive funding. So what we have proposed is an investigation of the whole thing, a parliamentary committee. The Committee could consider a financing solution in which current job tax deductions would in practice be a real deduction for a tax reduction. VAT rates could be revised. The reduction in interest rates could be abolished or reduced at a defensible pace, and labour market policy reforms that have proved ineffective could be abolished. There is a need for broad support in this House to even investigate the issue, and so far we have not noticed any great interest from the other parties. But, as I said, a parliamentary committee is needed to investigate this. The Committee directives should focus on examining both the impact of employment policies and the involvement of the social partners, and on examining in detail the distributional aspects of both income groups and other groups that may be adversely affected – such as pensioners, students and single parents of young children – and proposing possible compensations in the event that a group with weaker purchasing power is particularly adversely affected. Taking tax from someone who has a low income increases the risk of the person becoming dependent on other types of transfers from the public, which is an important aspect to include in this case.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-906	Mr President, I would like to I'll start by, somewhat shockingly, agreeing with both Per and Helena. It's not always happening! But it's going really well for the Swedish economy right now. All curves point in the right direction, unemployment is decreasing and people are happy. Sweden is amazing! However, not everyone comes to the fore that Sweden is doing so very well. It's an economy for the rich. It is a system rigged to make winners even bigger winners and rich even richer. We simply lack a redistributive tax system that contributes to greater equality and narrowing gaps. Per and Helena pointed out that the gap remains between those who have and those who do not have jobs, and that is the way things are – but not only. For surely you have heard of, and perhaps even know, people who have SMS jobs, who work in an unsafe labour market, who are exposed to planing? It is people who work in the taxi industry, in trade, in cleaning, as nurses or in the transport sector. All these groups have largely precarious jobs, and many of them are also low-paid. So, as the economy grows, we see the gaps growing. At the same time as more people get jobs, the pressure on the workplace is also increasing, and more and more people are being forced to work on precarious conditions – not least after the unfortunate AD judgment that allows for planning of working hours, which is now being put into systems in an increasing number of workplaces. While incomes have risen for some, others are standing and stomping with their low wages. In some vulnerable sectors, we even see wage cuts. You have already mentioned low-wage jobs in your posts. Low wages lead to a low-wage market. It leads to pressured conditions. It leads to pressured workers. This leads to a tougher climate in the labour market and to increased gaps. I do not know that there are any studies showing greater equality and mobility in the labour market as an effect of lower wages. On the contrary, a whole new group of working poors is created in this way, and it is nothing that we want in Sweden. The tax system we are talking about here today is an important instrument of governance in order to increase equality and to change the distribution of wealth created in society. The question for me is why the government of Löfven does not want to do anything about the unfair taxes that remain from the right-wing government. It is a tax policy that does not attack injustice and does not redistribute. It is a tax policy that retains all the means of deduction, most used by those who are best off. It is a tax policy that allows all those living in suburbs and places of use to pay for the RUT and interest deductions of high-income recipients – a tax policy that benefits the high-income recipients in the rich moderate municipalities. The best answer Stefan Löfven has given so far is that cards are laid. This logic rhymes badly with creating a Sweden that holds together for everyone. The issue of taxes is not difficult. It is simply about what society we want, about distribution policy and how the wealth created in our society should be used. What kind of welfare do we want? How will it be financed? How should it be distributed – according to need or by wallet? For the Left Party, equality policy is central. Equal societies reduce the gaps. Equal societies make people live longer. Equal societies have proved to be superior to all other societies. A prerequisite for equal societies is a common and strong welfare and an active distribution policy with redistributive taxes. Mr President, I would like to One of the important starting points for the Left Party when we discuss tax policy is that the overall tax charge needs to increase – not decrease. We need more money for welfare, not less. We need increased resources for health care to work, for teachers to be able to get higher salaries and for preschool teachers to be employed, so that children's groups can become smaller. The strong and structurally underfunded and understaffed welfare is today borne by, for example, the underpaid members of Kommunal and the stressed-out nurses of the Health Care Association. Another important starting point for the Left Party is that taxes should be redistributive and paid according to viability. This means that those who have the best value will pay more in tax and that those who have the worst value will pay less in tax. Those with the highest incomes should contribute to our common welfare rather than drastically reducing their tax through deductions. In our general welfare society, care, school, care, culture and so on should be paid with the tax and not distributed according to the thickness of the wallet and the opportunities it offers. In such a society, the tax must be redistributive and progressive in order to reduce disparities and to achieve the objective of greater equality. We must move away from a bourgeois tax policy with all kinds of tax deductions for those who are most at ease. RUT needs to be abolished, job tax deductions phased out and interest rebates greatly reduced. We must move away from a bourgeois tax policy that acts as a straitjacket. We want to reintroduce property tax, property tax and inheritance and gift tax. The money is better used to create higher employment, which gives all people a chance to get into work, to make strong investments in the disadvantaged infrastructure and for multi-billion-dollar efforts to train people outside the labour market. Mr President, I would like to Another – much better – way to use, for example, the billions spent today on the RUT deduction, which Helena Bouveng praises, is to increase the child benefit by SEK 180 per child per month. This would be a welcome addition of nearly $2,500 a year for many poor families with two children. Instead of making a contribution that is most used by the richest tenth in Sweden, we could stimulate the whole economy. For me, it is incomprehensible that the Social Democrats have not long since announced that this upper-class allowance should be removed, which mainly goes to the richest crane municipalities around Stockholm– Danderyd, Lidingö and Täby– but also to Lomma and Vellinge. It is an unhealthy distribution policy, and very few low-income people can even make use of this contribution. Although I support all the reservations made by the Left Party in this report, I would now like to take this opportunity to ask for the approval of the Left Party's reservation 16, concerning the deduction of travel expenses. I believe that many of us agree that this deduction does not work, and the Swedish Tax Agency has repeatedly stated that it has a major tax error of several billions. This is a deduction made mainly by motorists in metropolitan regions and by men to a much greater extent than women. The deduction clearly favours car-riding over public transport. In other words, it is basically the opposite of the idea of the deduction. An investigation is needed to review the system in order to develop a distance-based proposal that favours travel by public transport and bicycle but at the same time ensures that rural areas are not disadvantaged but become winners in a completely new proposal. Mr President, I would like to There is much to be done in the area of fiscal policy. Today it is one of the fields that most clearly shows which society we want to create – a society with an economy that works for everyone, or a society with a tax system rigged for the rich. It is time for the Social Democrats to get into the game and as the biggest government party put down their foot and show the direction.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-929	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I can say that Daniel Sestrajc is having a very difficult time because we cannot pronounce his last name. I note that Daniel Sestrajcic chooses not to pronounce either Per Åsling's or Helena Bouveng's last name at all. That was just a small observation, Mr President. I can also say that this should be the government's so-called partner, or cooperation party, in the Riksdag. There's no end to it! Is there any tax that the Left Party does not want to reintroduce or raise? I have a question for Daniel Sestrajcic: Is there any threshold of pain at all for how high the tax charge can be in Sweden? During the Alliance, revenues to municipalities and county councils increased by over 25 per cent, while bus drivers, nurses and teachers received an extra monthly salary to live on. Does Daniel Sestrajcic think it will be more or less hours worked if it pays less to work? Does Daniel Sestrajcic believe that it benefits welfare that fewer people choose to work more hours?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-934	Mr President, I would like to I guess I'll have to apologize for not saying Helena Bouvengs and Per Åsling's last name. I meant no harm in saying that I myself took years to learn my own last name. It's a difficult last name, Sestrajcic, but it's a very nice last name! Here's the thing: After hard savings in municipalities and county councils and after the tax cuts carried out by the bourgeois parties over eight years, there is quite a lot of room for, and need to, raise taxes to redistribute resources where they are needed. In her speech, Helena Bouveng talked a lot about more hours worked, about choosing to work more and about how our adjustment of the layer limits would be important. This adjustment is extremely marginal for the vast majority concerned. It is those with the highest income who are allowed to carry one or a few hundred cents. No one really believes that this affects their willingness to work one, two, three or ten hours extra. On the other hand, I meet many midwives who talk about the stress of work, poor schedules, long hours of work and the need for more employees. With the tax increases that we want to implement and with our investment in, for example, maternity care, with an additional 400 million, we can ensure that we employ more people in, for example, maternity care. Helena Bouveng wondered if there is any tax that we want to lower and if there is any heaviness on the taxes that we want to raise. There are many taxes to raise, such as the wealth tax, which I spoke of. There are taxes to raise that burden those who have been much better off in society. But it is clear that there are also taxes to be reduced. We do that with the government, as with the pensioner's tax. We are also making a great deal of reductions in the unfair tax on sick leave and how it beats.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-940	Mr President, I would like to I would like to reiterate that during the time of the Alliance, welfare revenue increased by 25%. This is something that will lead to more nurses, more teachers and more police, which we need. If you talk about stress, perhaps it is precisely this way you need to go, so that municipalities and county councils actually have the money that is needed. Daniel Sestrajcic referred to the pensioner's tax. What really affects our elderly's pensions? Well, that's more people paying into the old-age pension system. This is exactly what happens when people move from support to a permanent job. Then I have to ask Daniel Sestrajcic once again: Does Daniel Sestrajc think that there will be more or fewer people who choose to go from contributions to work if it pays very badly? The second question I would like to ask Daniel Sestrajc is: Is it worse to have a job in the RUT industry that is not low-paid – you have a market salary, you are contributing and paying into old-age pension schemes – than an ordinary family of children in Hudiksvall gets a clean house and everyday puzzle to go together?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-944	Mr President, I would like to It is quite clear that the policy pursued by the Left Party is about putting more people to work, because more hours worked will of course result in higher tax revenues. But the more hours worked do not always have to be carried out by those who already work a lot. Nor is it the case that those who work a lot, and who have the high incomes affected by the adjustment of the stratum limits, receive a particularly large adjustment which means that they will stop working. There is no such connection. More people are going to work, but they should also have reasonable wages and jobs. It is a fact that cuts have had to be made out in municipalities because of the reduction of the state's contribution during the bourgeois reign years. Now, together with the government, we have ensured that more billions have been added to the local government sector. The Moderates always use the number trick to increase tax revenue. Yes, of course they're increasing. As there are more people in society, tax revenue increases. Year-on-year tax revenue increases automatically. But they're not increasing to the extent they need to satisfy the needs as we grow more, so you'll have to stop that number trick. When we are going to make sure there are more jobs, it is reasonable that there will be jobs that meet the real needs, not that you, who can afford RUT services, will get a well-cleaned villa. Instead, perhaps someone should be employed in care for the elderly, where there are no people. That is the difference between our policies, where you get access as needed and not access because you can pay out of your wallet. My mom's a maid herself. She was a cleaning lady for 15 years. It's not a bad job. It's a great job. But you're going to pay her full cost. That's the thing. She's not gonna have to pay her salary to get you a clean home. That's the point. The policy you pursue is a deeply unfair class policy.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-949	Mr President, I would like to One question that I ask myself is how in our society it may have become something ugly, strange and complicated to give gifts. Giving should be something that's natural. Giving gifts to something that we believe will help shape a better world, we, as fellow human beings, citizens and politicians, should support as much as possible. The government, on the other hand, considers it a problem that you as a fellow human choose to give to a nonprofit organization. The government believes that they are better sent to choose which non-profit organisations should receive funding and support. On this basis, the government chose to remove the gift tax credit, which we Christian Democrats think is a mistake. A society where we help each other is to strive. If aid comes in the form of involvement in non-profit organisations or if one supports an organisation with financial means, we as politicians should consider it to be up to the individual, and the state should support it. The Christian Democrats believe that civil society plays an important role in the development of society and that measures are therefore needed that create better conditions for civil society to function and develop. Surely, in recent years, civil society has a major impact on our societal development and helps to meet the challenges we face. Civil society has many important activities. For example, they organise summer activities for children in financially vulnerable families, take care of refugees or run shelters for homeless people. It is based on people's voluntary commitment and time as well as gifts from people who want to support activities financially. The Alliance government, on the initiative of the Christian Democrats, introduced the gift tax deduction to encourage giving to non-profit organizations. One year after the deduction was introduced, the total giving to the country's 90 account organisations increased from SEK 5.2 billion to SEK 5.8 billion. During the same period, the average monthly gift increased from $125 a month to $125 a month. The Christian Democrats therefore take very seriously the fact that the government has taken away the opportunity for those who donate money for charitable purposes to make tax deductions for the gift. The gift tax credit should be reintroduced in its earlier form and the application and annual fees for donor organisations should be abolished. In the long term, the ceiling on the right to deduct should also be increased and the issue of developing the tax credit to include legal persons should be reviewed. Now I would ask you to listen very carefully, because there will be a question just afterwards. Government policy doesn't stick together. Now we are trying to reduce the tax gap because we are approaching an election movement. This means that pensioners still have to pay higher taxes. But now it is said that the gap must be narrowed. You probably do it now because you're approaching an election movement. We have been very clear from the beginning that pension is deferred salary and therefore should be taxed equally. Who said these words before me? It was Stefan Löfven when the Social Democrats were in opposition. Then there were big words about pensioners, big words about how they really wanted to close the gap between taxes on wages and taxes on pensions. Now that the Social Democrats are in government, they have forgotten the promise and put 2.1 billion in the next budget, which means that they do not even get close to closing the gap. We Christian Democrats will be spending almost 14 billion to do what the Social Democrats are just talking about: closing the gap between wage income and tax on pensions. Pension is deferred salary and should be taxed on that basis. Have the Social Democrats forgotten? The government now has the chance here today to say yes to the Christian Democrats' proposal and honour the promise that was made to 2.5 million of Sweden's pensioners. Closing the gap costs 14 billion, and the government has announced an investment of 2.1 billion. 14 billion against 2.1 billion – do you think pensioners should be happy about that? Of the promises of the Social Democrats and the great words, it was only a tummethott. The great promises disappeared when you sat down in Rosenbad. The Christian Democrats have been the driving force for reducing taxes on pensioners, and the Alliance Government reduced the tax on pensions in five steps. This means that a guarantee pensioner, together with the increase in the housing supplement, has about SEK 1,900 more in his wallet each month compared to the tax level in 2006. This means that you have a month's pension more each year. We Christian Democrats believe that pensions are deferred wages and should be taxed accordingly. Can the Social Democrats in this pulpit say so again and agree to the Christian Democrats' proposal? We Christian Democrats believe that the tax on pensions should be at the same level as the tax on earned income. There is still a difference in taxation to the detriment of pensioners. We cannot quite understand that the government cannot honour this promise that has been made to 2.5 million Swedish pensioners. Then you can only react to the Left Party's tax policy. Sometimes you'd wish you were a left-winger. The world is quite simple. If we raise all taxes and let the government distribute, it will be so simple and so good. However, we do not believe in that society. We believe in a society where you have as much as possible left to make your own choices. We believe that man is capable of making his own decisions. However, we think that we should have high taxes on what we want to phase out, such as environmental damage. But we also think that you should have low taxes on what you want to stimulate, that is, getting people to work. More jobs give more tax revenue, more to welfare. The tax policy of the Left is simple, but unfortunately it is also a vision that does not work. I would like to conclude by calling for the Alliance's reservation 7 to be approved.
i-Prwsbb6ab27fmPENV7eDg6	Mr President, I would like to I would first of all like to support the committee's proposal and reject all motions. This year it is a hundred years since the club fell to introduce democracy in our country, so that all men and women of age would be involved in deciding on social matters. They were once denied by an authority that set the agenda. With universal and equal suffrage, another agenda came to be written in our country. Poor society, the brutal class society, defended by the besieged, slowly began to change into another. Words such as solidarity and equality became central to politics. Economic and social reforms freed people. Freedom is greatest when we see that we humans belong together and are dependent on each other. Mr President, I would like to Political democracy is the essence and foundation of social democracy, or the welfare state, as an idea. Imagine the feeling and freedom that the old woman felt when the national pension began to come. Children had been denied education because their parents could not afford it. Behaviours were closed out for a long time from study opportunities. Step by step, the obstacles were overcome by new reforms in the field of education policy. I could continue the list with preschool, the expanded university, health care and libraries. Of course there are shortcomings. The construction of the community is not finished. But we can proudly say that we have built a Swedish model. It is a society in which solidarity is to be strong. The one who earns well should share with the one who is worse off. The healthy person should show solidarity with the sick person, and there should be a solidarity bond across the generations. Equality is the goal of politics. Taxes are a means. Mr President, I would like to For the political right, it is reversed. Tax is a goal, and the goal is always to reduce tax. I've studied political history. When the tax burden was 8 percent of the bnp and was to rise, the right wing said: Farewell! Society is being demolished! That's what I've been talking about. Every time solidarity has been extended because we need more common resources to build up health care, school or preschool. In the report, differentiated moderates propose the following: abolished military tax, new job tax credit, tax credit for housing construction, tax credit for sports leaders, start-up job deductions, reduced employers' contributions for the elderly, RUT deductions for massages, RUT deductions for car wash, increased ceiling to 75% in RUT, RUT deductions for horseback riding, golf and exercise races, lower taxation on employee options, BOT deductions and the right to deduct gifts. Everything is reduced taxes. I have with magnifying glasses and lup systematically gone through the documents. There is nothing from the moderate pens that says that tax can be a good thing. It's always reduced taxes. They'll never get enough. I also saw when, on your Swedish days in Karlstad, you presented the goal of future economic policy: it is possible to save 23 billion in care for the elderly, 8 billion in primary school and 3 billion in upper secondary school. Here is the great conflict, and I will come back to it. But of course I'll answer Larry Söder's question. If you pull a little bit into the puzzle, you'll see there's two buttons there, Larry Söder. One says yes, and one says no. Five times during eight years, the Swedish Parliament voted on the so-called job tax deductions, which each time increased the gap between salary income and pension income. Every time, KD pressed yes. It is you who have created this gap. Me and the Social Democrats pressed no, Larry Söder. Now we have started a policy of closing the gap completely when the economy allows. When you were up, Larry Söder, I was thinking about an old story. In a mid-Swedish town, it was a company that was involved in plotting. They did brilliant business and always had full employment. They kept going out and washing doodles until a municipal official found out that the firm went ahead and scribbled and then was able to come and remove the doodle. I thought there was a sense of this in your speech, Larry Söder. First you do something, and then you say it's horrendous. Five times you voted for a tax gap, Larry Söder. You won't get away with that. Mr President, I would like to In fact, it is a classic debate between the right and the left when we discuss tax issues. Ultimately, it is about: Should we have resources for society, or should we be on our own? Should we have a society based on solidarity or a society based on selfishness? Mr President, I would like to The Swedish model is strong. It is based on solidarity and on equality as a goal. It should not be decommissioned but developed.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-982	Mrs. Old President! It's exciting to hear Peter Persson. We have also met a number of times in debates. I cannot help but think that it is hypocrisy to stand in the speaker's seat and criticise job tax deductions. Peter Persson says that the Social Democrats repeatedly said no. But you haven't done anything to remove them. I can see nothing but that the job tax deductions are still in place, albeit deteriorating. Both me and Peter Persson know that it has actually led to more people getting a job, that more people have gone from support to work and that more people have chosen to work for a few extra hours. Peter Persson talks about solidarity. I agree. We who have a little more should definitely be involved in contributing to those who do not have quite as much. We have much better social mobility than we can see in the United States, for example. I think that's good. But it is also about freedom and allowing the individual to have at his disposal what he has earned on his own. In Sweden of the Social Democrats, the nurse, midwife and police are called high wage earners. In fact, I do not think that the nurse at Ryhov at home in Jönköping sees herself as a high-income person when she comes home at two o'clock at night. My question to Peter Persson is: Does Peter Persson think that there will be more or fewer midwives working more or less hours? Does Peter Persson think that there will be more or fewer police officers who choose to take an extra shift at home in Jönköping if there is SEK 40 left on the salary statement?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-988	Mrs. Old President! Helena Bouveng knows very well that we were against the job tax deductions. We've scaled down the effect of them. We are doing it even more now for those who have sickness benefit, and we are taking a second step in relation to the so-called gap to pensioners. It's a real policy. You are spreading a kind of myth that there will be more jobs, but the truth is that when Reinfeldt and Borg ruled the country, unemployment rose from 260 000 to 400 000. I asked Borg again and again. He sat with his calculator here somewhere in the chamber, but he could never answer the lines. That's the truth. I heard Helena Bouveng say in the speaker's chair that Sweden is doing well, that the company's order books are filled and that people come to work. I read in today's post a debate article by her party friend Sotiris Delis, who basically wrote that the county's population is on barbed wire and starving and that everything goes downhill with Sweden. Now you Moderates have to learn what position to take. Is it good for Sweden, or is it worse? Is it not that we now have the highest employment rate we have ever had in Sweden? You're going to cut welfare by 23 billion. What does that mean for the nurses, nurses and police? Answer the question!
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-992	Mrs. Old President! I'll answer the question, Peter Persson. Sweden is doing well, despite a red-green policy that is both anti-job and anti-growth. When we ask Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson how many jobs have come about despite or thanks to her, it is difficult to get an answer, but it became a full job in Stockholm, if I do not remember wrong. I can say that Peter Persson refuses to answer the question if he thinks it will be more or less hours worked if it pays very badly. Peter Persson talked about gaps, but can he still agree that the biggest gap in Sweden is between people who have a job to go to and those who don't? Now the red-green government has chosen to halve the RUT deduction while more services will compete for the pot. Neither floating nor IT services will lead to the extra-European woman getting her first job in the labour market. I heard Peter Persson at last week's seminar, and the criticism was not gracious. It was hardly that the RUT deduction should remain at all. Peter Persson is happy to focus on the family that makes the everyday puzzle go together, but he never talks about the foreign-born woman who never gets her first job to go to. I have to ask Peter Persson: What simpler jobs with market wages does Peter Persson think will come forward?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-997	Mrs. Old President! I note that Helena Bouveng does not want to touch on the issue of the discussion in Karlstad at all. The ambition is to save SEK 23 billion in welfare. It is clear – that is something you have to do to cope with all the tax cuts that you have promised to do. It will be a real shock to midwives, nurses and others. That goes without saying. It is true that one of the greatest divisions and injustices exists between those who have a job and those who lack a job. If you now find unemployment to be such a scourge, it is incomprehensible to me that you want to torment the unemployed by reducing the levels of compensation so that, in many cases, you cannot survive and you can go on support for livelihoods. Don't talk about fighting unemployment! What you did was to fight the unemployed, and it was not decent.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1000	Mrs. Old President! The speech of the Social Democrats is very much about democracy, ancient times and history. I would like the Social Democrats to talk more about the present and the future. That is what I was trying to do in my speech. I tried to ask the Social Democrats some questions, but I did not get many answers. The Social Democrats are talking about the job tax deduction. Yes, it was the alliance government that introduced it five times, just as the Social Democrats say. I find it strange that the Social Democrats bring this up every time. After all, they have accepted that the job tax credit has been introduced and is at that level. I think the Left Party has a good part in that when they criticise you for just saying that the card is laid, because that's what you do, Peter Persson. You accept one thing that the Alliance Government carried out and that you may have wanted to do yourself, but you did not want to take responsibility for. The truth is that we reduced the tax on pensioners five times. The cost of this was SEK 16 billion. The Christian Democrats propose to remove the difference between wage tax and pension tax. This means that we are adding 14 billion, and that is 30 billion in total. As I see it, the Social Democrats have added 2.1 billion. You promised the voters before the elections to remove the difference. You have not done it, but now you are coming with a small reduction in order for you to have some whale freckles, just as Stefan Löfven claimed that the alliance government did. I didn't get an answer to my question. Why are you betraying Sweden's 2 1⁄2 million pensioners? You're not doing what you said.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1006	Mrs. Old President! Larry Söder is actually talking nonsense. After all, he helped to widen the gap year after year. The job tax deductions are correct – five times he pressed the button. The Social Democrats did not. When we got the government power back together with the Green Party, the ambition was to cope with welfare and combat injustice. What we have committed ourselves to with regard to the gap between wage income and other income is that it should be closed, and we have taken two steps now. It will be very interesting to see who you intend to rule with. Larry Söder initially said that the Social Democrats like to talk about democracy and ancient times. If there is anything we need to talk about in 2017, it is democracy. When I see the forces and movements in our country, in other European countries and on the other side of the Atlantic that do not think we should talk about democracy, then I think we should talk about democracy. Democracy can only be kept alive if you care for it and talk about it constantly. You should realize that, too, Larry Söder.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1010	Mrs. Old President! Once again, I can see that the Social Democrats do not claim in any way that they want to change the tax credit but that they have accepted it. Then I think that we can conclude that discussion directly and, in the next debate, go into what is important, that is to say, there is a difference in the tax on salary income and on pensions. In my speech I read a quote from Stefan Löfven, who was the leader of the party at the time, where he promised that the gap would disappear. He did not tailor the words, but said that he thought it was terrible that the Alliance government did not do this. Now we are on the last budget before the elections in 2018, and it has not been announced that you will close the gap in taxation between wage income and pensions. That means you have failed 2 1⁄2 million pensioners. On the other hand, the Christian Democrats have promised to come up with a proposal that will remove this difference. We've delivered that. The only thing you need to do is actually press the yes button this time. You don't even have to make your own proposal. You can accept what exists. The difference between you and my alliance partners is that they have not actually promised the same thing you promised before the 2014 elections. They may have a good conscience. We're in politics. Unfortunately, however, your conscience is not clear when it comes to 2 1⁄2 million pensioners whom you are betraying.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1015	Mrs. Old President! One cannot say, on the one hand, that the Social Democrats have accepted the job tax deductions as they are and, on the other hand, say that what we are doing is harmful – scale down the impact of the job tax deduction and raise the stratum limits, so that more people pay government income tax. These are apportionment-policy corrections. Then you can't argue with that. Then I say good luck. I can see before me the Moderates, the Center Party and the Liberals, with whom you will rule, when the giant KD rises and says, "Now do as we say!" I don't think they do, Larry.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1018	Mrs. Old President! I always find it exciting and fun to hear you Peter, because you are a storyteller of rank who also knows your story. That's also the truth you're talking about. You are talking about what has built up our society – solidarity and the Swedish model – and for which we owe a great deal to the labour movement. The problem is that today you are maintaining a bourgeois tax policy. I hoped at the beginning of this term of office that it was only the beginning when together we could ensure that the job tax deduction was reduced. We now have the budget for the budget to adjust the stratum limits. It has been the Left Party's proposal against a very reluctant Social Democracy. But I am absolutely convinced that if Peter Persson were the Minister for Finance, we could shake hands on a much better policy than we can today. My question is: why can the Social Democratic-led government not proceed more quickly and ensure that this harmful bourgeois tax policy is removed? Why cannot you come up with proposals or at least accept the proposals for, for example, an increase in wealth tax that the Left Party has?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1022	Mrs. Old President! I cannot say directly that the bourgeois debaters show such goodwill towards what the Social Democracy proposes in the area of fiscal policy. On the contrary, I hear quite a clear aggression. Daniel Sestrajcic, possibly I teased you a little bit when you came back to the bench after your speech and I said: You sound like an old folk party. I guess I'm getting back here.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1025	Mrs. Old President! I don't really know where to start. Liberal I am in many respects. But in fiscal policy, I am not liberal. I think Mats Persson will agree with that. The question remains, because the proof that social democratic fiscal policy is good when such a large part of bourgeois fiscal policy has been preserved is that we have a bunch of bourgeois Members who are a little sour and aggressive. Well, that's it. But you, Peter Persson, have shown how they want to get worse. They want to take it a few steps down the hellhole and cut off additional money and lower additional taxes. But that is no argument for maintaining the tax policy they have implemented over eight years, is it not? Now we have to start speeding up. There's not much time left. We need to increase justice and equality – the policy that you, Peter, stand for. You also need the extra tax money. And you, with your history and background, also understand the need for redistribution and the need to roll back the tax cuts that have basically benefited the very richest and have basically benefited the big companies. Don't you agree? What is the next step in social democratic fiscal policy to roll back bourgeois fiscal policy? I know you have a lot of suggestions like that. Can't you get your government to go that way?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1029	Mrs. Old President! We once had a finance minister named Per Edvin Sköld. There was a new young Social Democratic Member of Parliament named Hans Hagnell. Hagnell sounded kind of like you, Daniel. Why haven't you done it, and why haven't you? Then Per Edvin Sköld looked at Hans Hagnell, who was acting, and said in Skåne: No, we have been waiting for you. Time is not over, but the direction is clear. We're reducing tax evasion. And when I hear the head from the right, I feel confident that politics is moving in the right direction.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1032	Mrs. Old President! There was an exciting discussion here at last. We were pleased to have followed this. We are debating the tax committee's report 22 on income taxes. It's an engaging subject. This applies not only to what we have heard here so far, but also to the approximately 150 motions under discussion in this report. At a time of political instability in too many parts of the world, I am pleased that we sometimes agree on broad agreements here in Parliament too. These are agreements that take Sweden in the right direction. We have agreed on a number of such arrangements during this parliamentary term in various areas. This applies not least to energy and defence, which we have debated earlier today in this House, and to the surplus target, which has been debated in the past. This also applies to the environment and climate. We will decide to introduce a climate law. It is a regulatory framework that, like the fiscal framework, sets a framework for reducing emissions over time to bring about the transition that we need. In the Environmental Objectives Committee and the Rural Committee, our parties in the Riksdag have widely agreed that the travel allowance should be reviewed. I'm glad to hear that. The travel allowance that we have today is designed so that it benefits commuting by car, and although the idea is that it will benefit rural and sparsely populated areas and the possibility for those who live there to get to work it is not so today's system hits. It is mainly commuters in metropolitan regions who often have public transport options that benefit from it. The fact that there is such a consensus is therefore very positive. The regulatory framework for a company car, which can be given as a benefit, is today very favourable. There have been some notifications from the government, among other things the other day, which means that the person who gets a company car should still pay a congestion charge when entering Stockholm and Gothenburg, which is positive to fulfil the purpose of congestion charges. Mrs. Old President! Reforms are needed to meet Sweden's challenges. This applies to the environment, but it also applies to the labour market and to the business sector. The issue of making a broad tax review, a tax reform, is being discussed more and more frequently, and the tax committee also had a hearing on this in January this year. Such a review should focus on environmental change, the establishment of new arrivals, digitalisation, sharing economy and distribution policy. It is all the relevant inputs that should be included in such a review, and I think it would be very good for Sweden if we could get one in the long term. It would create a stability that would be positive for the country. Finally, I think it is a very elegant description when you say from the Moderates that what can happen with high marginal taxes is that people can meet their children more. I think that this should be debated in a different way.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1039	Mrs. Old President! I think there are a lot of things that the Green Party and the Left Party agree on, at least historically when you also defined yourself a little more of a left party than you do today. One of the things that I think Rasmus Ling and I agree on is that we want a tax system that leads to greater equality and redistribution. He'll be happy to answer if we agree on that. Peter Persson said in his last speech that we are going in the right direction, and I assume that Rasmus Ling agrees with him on that. I can also agree that we are taking small steps in the right direction in fiscal policy; thanks to the Left, we are making some good adjustments in fiscal policy, for example, with regard to layer limits and the roll-back of the job tax credit. If we dwell on equality and redistribution in tax policy, I would like to ask the same question to Rasmus Ling, given that we agree on it: why is the Green Party involved in maintaining a tax system created by the bourgeois and which does not favour equality and redistribution but goes the other way? Why are you not prepared in the Green Party to agree to the proposals put forward by the Left Party in negotiations with the government to adjust the tax system towards greater equality and redistribution?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1042	Mrs. Old President! Yes, I think that Sweden in many ways is moving in the right direction, although there are, of course, a lot of problems that we need to address, not least those that I said a future tax reform and a review should address. Distributive policies and economic differences between people are highly relevant. That was also something I mentioned. But the answer is not to agree to the tax increases raised by Daniel Sestrajc in his main speech. All in all, this would have completely unreasonable consequences. The question of how to deal with this, however, deserves a serious discussion. We have taken steps that have been good. We have increased taxes during this parliamentary term in a way that I think has been good and necessary. But it is clear that we have different aspects to take into account in this regard, such as the international situation. If we tax companies too radically, we know that there is a risk of negative consequences, such as companies choosing to move to other countries. I can feel that these are aspects that the Left Party does not take into account all the times.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1045	Mrs. Old President! It is clear that if you see increased equality as an unreasonable consequence, as it seemed that Rasmus Ling thought, then many of the Left Party's proposals have unreasonable consequences. But if you now think that greater equality and greater redistribution are good for society, because it reduces the gaps and increases the opportunities to put more people into work, which creates safer societies, then our proposals are not at all unreasonable. Rasmus Ling does not even have to agree to all the proposals, but you could at least agree to a few more proposals to increase tax revenues. If we are to use economists, there are several economists who say that Sweden today is almost a tax haven – Stefan de Wylde, Kenneth Hermele and Agneta Stark, just to name a few economists. There are also several economists on the bourgeois side who say: Re-introduce property tax! You don't have to take all the suggestions we have, but you can take some. After all, you might like something more to lead the tax system in an equal direction without going on and rambling about the possible relocation of companies. It is true, as Rasmus Ling knows, that a safe society that can afford to invest in school, in health care and in various ways also benefits companies and makes them want to place themselves here. Instead, let me ask Rasmus Ling a question: Given that you at least say you want to represent a tax policy for greater equality and redistribution, but cannot imagine accepting some of the Left Party's proposals, what own proposals do the Green Party and the government have for a tax policy that increases equality and redistribution? Let me remind you, then, that the proposals made so far by the Government have been implemented following proposals and struggles by the Left Party at the negotiating table, not because the Green Party has been for them. Present your proposals for greater equality and redistribution in tax policy, Rasmus Ling!
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1050	Mrs. Old President! I note that the S- and MP-government, in cooperation with the Left Party during this parliamentary term, has increased efforts on welfare very much, and that has been a good thing. We have evened out the differences that existed. We've moved in the right direction. There's more to do here. I think we need to take more steps. We need to move forward with the green tax shift that we have made where we lower taxes on labour in order for more people to be able to get jobs and use sustainable services, while at the same time raising taxes on what destroys the environment and the climate. It's a road we're going to go. The question I would like to send back for answers at a later date is whether there is a limit to the tax quota for Daniel Sestrajcic. Sometimes it sounds as if it does not, and I do not think that, Madam President-in-Office, it is possible or desirable.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1053	Mrs. Old President! I have to say that I am almost a bit happy to hear that Rasmus Ling and the Green Party are also questioning whether there is actually a limit to the levying of taxes on the Left Party. You might begin to wonder. I can strongly recommend the book Animal Farm. There you get a pretty good answer to the question. Rasmus Ling said in his speech that he felt that we should review our taxes. The government that Rasmus is now part of has chosen to raise taxes properly on both jobs and growth. That is why I think it is good that Rasmus Ling points out that we may need to review. We can note that for each crown the government invests in business, you take 10 SEK back. It is neither good for jobs nor good for growth. I am pleased that Rasmus Ling not long ago stood up properly to oppose the investigation that proposed terrible rules regarding the 3:12 rules. It wasn't good for jobs, and it wasn't good for growth. All credit to Rasmus Ling! Then I was not quite as happy with your concluding speech that I would be ludicrous about marginal taxes. I note that we have 1.2 million people who today are considered to be high-income earners and thus receive 40 crowns out of the last one-hundred. I must therefore ask Rasmus Ling: Does Rasmus Ling think that there will be more or fewer people who choose to work over three o'clock at night in our hospitals with such marginal taxes?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1058	Mrs. Old President! The changes proposed by the government regarding the state income tax result in a tax increase of between SEK 2 and SEK 200 per month. I would call it a marginal adjustment, which does not have the drastic consequences that Helena Bouveng and the Moderates point to. I will raise the question of the consequences of having these marginal taxes compared to what Helena Bouveng wants. If you look at the proposals that the Moderates have put together and that Peter Persson previously listed – the defense tax and reduced taxes in several different parts – you can see that there is a possibility that people who would have drastic tax cuts would choose leisure time instead of working. And it seems to be the worst thing Helena Bouveng can imagine – that people would prefer to spend an extra hour with their own children or grandchildren. I find that description strange. Even in a moderate world, there should be more values in life than working one last hour. The children are not unimportant. Since we often have a discussion in which the Moderates want to appear as the Labour Party, I would like to take this opportunity to ask what it was like during the eight years of the Alliance Government. How did the supply support that Helena Bouveng talked about develop? On average, per inhabitant, the costs of municipalities increased from about SEK 1,000 to SEK 1,300. This was an increase of 30 per cent, and this development took place in almost all municipalities. I can cross over this question to Helena Bouveng. Why did such developments take place?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1062	Mrs. Old President! Let me confess one thing: I have not read the report quite as carefully as Peter Persson. But if I were to line up all the tax increases that the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party had together, we would probably have had a fairly high tax burden. It is almost the case that the Left Party has reached the ceiling completely, I would say. I would like to go back to my question, to which I absolutely did not receive an answer. All research shows that there must be incentives for education and for it to pay off working for an extra hour. I have to ask Rasmus Ling my question again. If a midwife gets 40 crowns on a Saturday night and a policeman gets 40 crowns out of the last earned money– does Rasmus Ling think that there will be more or fewer people who choose to work extra? Does he not think, then, that one might choose to take this out in leisure time instead of pay? Does Rasmus Ling really not think that taxes control behavior? He was quite clear in his speech that he wanted to make a tax shift so that it would be better for the environment. I have absolutely no problem with that. I can only see that the Red-Green Government wants to collect as much taxes as possible. The environment is used, and it is basically fiscal. What if we were to achieve all our environmental goals? Then how are we gonna get some tax money? Again: Does Rasmus Ling think that there will be more or fewer people who choose to work over when it pays so badly?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1066	Mrs. Old President! For me, tax cuts for low-income earners will be more of a priority than tax reductions for the groups targeted by Helena Bouveng. I do not think that the biggest social problem we have in this country is that those who are above the level of paying government income tax receive an increase of between SEK 2 and 200 per month. I find it hard to understand how you can see it as the biggest social problem we have. I also note that Helena Bouveng did not at all touch upon the question I had about the development of the support for livelihoods during the eight years that the Moderates, together with the other bourgeois parties, ruled. There was a 30% increase, and there were massive costs for municipalities, but above all for individuals who ended up in this situation. I do not want this development to re-emerge, and that is why I am glad that the policy of the Moderates does not seem to have an impact.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1068	Mrs. Old President! I'll be very brief. I would like to support the Liberals' reservation 9 in paragraph 5.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1069	Mrs. Old President! Mats Persson was concise but not so comprehensive in his speech. I would therefore like to ask two interesting questions. Do the Liberals share the view and view that it is a tax shock that is now hitting ordinary wage earners? The second question is: How do you view what the Moderates sketch – cutting 23 billion in welfare? Do you see that as a possible policy?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1072	Mrs. Old President! The first question was whether I think the government is now moving forward with tax increases that are hitting ordinary people. The answer is yes. It hits midwives, police and small businessmen around our country. They will now receive higher taxes. The basic question you need to ask yourself is: What social problem is this a solution to? What social problem is solved by higher taxation for a small business owner? What social problem is solved by a midwife, a police officer, or a first teacher receiving higher taxes? I usually assume that we politicians in this House will solve the problems people have in their everyday lives and try to make society better from the ideological point of view we have. My ideological starting point is that we should encourage industriousness and rigour and that those who train and give up an income for a number of years in order to invest in an education should also retain the benefits of this investment in education and of the rigour shown. Or the person who starts a business and initially does not have a single customer but after a while gets customers and after a number of years have filled order books and sleepless at night for the bills to be paid – it is clear that he or she will reap the benefits of investing and taking the risk of starting a business. When you do that, I think you build Sweden strong. In the hard-working Sweden, education, diligence and entrepreneurship should pay off, and that is a prerequisite for building welfare strong and ensuring that we have midwives who want to go to work, think they have a reasonable working environment and think that it is worth going there so that it is also paid in tax to the common tax chest. My starting point – we may have different ideological starting points – is that what the government is doing now is bad and harmful to Sweden.
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1076	Mrs. Old President! How many of the employees in our country earn over SEK 37 125 per month, Mats Persson? Can you answer that? Those who earn 37 125 kroner receive a tax increase of 2 kroner. What a shock! I don't know how to even use that two-krona because you can't switch it in or use it at all. Those who earn more than $15,000 receive an increase of $2.50 (U.S.). How many people in our country make over $15,000? It's pure scare propaganda you're carrying on. What it is about, from the government and from the parties that are part of the government, is to reduce injustices and bring resources to what everyone is talking about: defence, police and welfare. Then we must also take responsibility for funding. Answer the question, Mats Persson. How many people in our country make over $1,200? I believe that several police officers, midwives and others would rejoice if they approached such a sum. The second question, which is very interesting to us because you have the alliance that you have, is: What do you think about the proposal from the Moderates to cut by 23 billion in school and care for the elderly?
i-28f622ed4cad2d7a-1080	Mrs. Old President! It's better that you ask that question to the Moderates than that I answer for the politics of other parties. It is clear that we have different ideological starting points. You're manifesting a socialist sense of justice-- it becomes clear when you describe this with it, I'm not going to say contemptuous but emotional, tone that you have in relation to these professions-- that's about equality being that all people have the same amount. Socialist justice is that all people have the same amount. I believe in liberal justice, which means that everyone has the same conditions, but anyone who invests in education or sets up a company without a single customer should also reap the benefits of the work, investment and risk-taking. It's a different view of justice. Is it, then, that few people pay for these tax increases? The truth is, it's four out of ten midwives and four out of ten cops. I thought we needed more midwives and cops and that the midwives and the cops we have work more instead of doing other things. Then I think it's better that we do everything we can to get more people to study these professions and that those who have already trained in these professions are working on what they have trained for instead of doing other things. For ideological reasons, the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party are making ordinary people pay for this. The Left Party even writes in a debate article about how good this is and how pleased you are when these groups are now to pay higher taxes. What social problem is this supposed to solve? You represent in this House what happens when the ideological blinders stand above the everyday lives of ordinary people. It's distressing.
