i-546dbb42a99fb610-3	Mr President, I would like to We are gathered today to debate the review of the government by the Constitutional Committee, something we do every year. As chairman of the Parliament's Constitutional Committee, I launched last year's review debate in a completely different way, namely by pointing out that the KU is the committee entrusted with the care of our constitutions, including the human and civil liberties established there. I then went on to comment on the massacre of LGBT people in Orlando, Florida, which had taken place the night before. This year's review debate also takes place a few hours after what appears to be an act of terror, this time in London. The review of the government's work that the KU has carried out and that we are now going to debate is a phenomenon that we in this House see as an obvious, almost routine part of our Swedish democratic social system. At the same time, we know that there are people in our country and elsewhere who do not accept the democratic values that we take for granted and who do not accept the principles of democracy and freedom and the idea of the equal value of every human being, but who, on the contrary, are prepared to allow the senseless violence to ravage our society and our way of life. The latest example of this was seen yesterday in London. We do not yet fully know who is behind the attack in London, but it is clearly aimed at Muslims. If the aim was to attack Muslims as a revenge for recent Islamic terrorist attacks against Britain, it is important to state that a spiral of hatred and revenge is exactly what IS and other extremist groups want. IS wants to break a wedge between Muslims living in the West and other population groups. Right-wing extremists hate diversity and democracy as much as IS does and are also ready to use violence to create and deepen conflicts. Our democracy and the values of our societies are challenged by these extremist groups and their acts of terror, but we must not give in. It is we who decide whether we allow them to provoke contradictions or not. We must not let them prevail. Mr President, I would like to Let me turn to the fact that, for over 200 years, the Constitutional Committee has examined that the government and its members have complied with the constitutions and other laws and regulations governing the work of the government. The question is not whether a particular measure is politically desirable or not, but whether the rules in force have been complied with when the decision was taken or the measure was taken. Mr President, I would like to inform you that this year, too, the Constitutional Committee has examined a number of complaints against the government and compiled its observations in a report which is now presented to the House. This review of notifications submitted by Members of Parliament takes place every spring. All notifications submitted by the end of January will be reviewed this spring. Registrations submitted later will be reviewed next spring. The notifications we are discussing are therefore mainly related to events that took place in 2016. This year's review has included 34 notifications, one of which is measured by the standard number of KUs. If you look at the last 20 years, the number of notifications has varied between about 20 and c a 40. Of these 34 notifications, 30 concern the current government, while 4 concern the former government. One of the notifications is directed at the current government, but the KU notes that similar problems also occurred during the previous government's time. Over the years, there has been a regular debate on the alleged politicisation of the KU. Some years ago, the disagreements in the committee have been great and have led to a number of positions on which the parties were unable to agree. The 2015 and 2016 KU reviews were therefore historical because the KU then was basically completely united across all party and block borders about its conclusions. There were occasional reservations from SD and V, but in other cases everyone was in complete agreement. The alliance parties and government parties were able to agree on all issues. The KU had not been so united for the last 20 years. I went over the positions a little further ten years back, so I can say with some certainty that the KU had not been so unanimous in a spring review for 30 years. Therefore, when we started work on the 2017 review, the question was whether the KU would succeed in becoming united again, a third time. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased and proud to inform the House that the KU has succeeded again. Even this year, the KU has been able to agree on its positions across party and block borders to an extent that is unique, apart from the last two years. Once again, the government parties and the alliance parties agree on all positions. All parties agree on all cases where deficiencies are mentioned. SD has a single reservation, which is the lowest number of reservations in any case 20 years. The average number of reservations in the years preceding 2015 was just over nine, which undeniably gives a picture of the previous high level of conflict in the committee. Through this year's review report, the KU has again largely succeeded in putting legal and constitutional principles before narrow party politics. It is of great value that the KU has been able to agree. I would therefore like to express my warm thanks, as President of the KU, to all the members of the committee for achieving this broad consensus. I am addressing in particular the Vice-President of the Committee, Björn von Sydow, who has made a significant contribution to the constructive spirit that has marked the work of the committee. I would also like to express my great thanks to the excellent office of the KU, headed by Head of Office Peder Nielsen, whose work is an invaluable part of the process that has led to this broad consensus. This year we were also able to take the consensus a further step forward. In 2015 and 2016, as I said, we agreed between the alliance parties and the government parties on all positions – that is, we agreed on the texts. Afterwards, however, there was some discussion on the interpretation of the texts. It was not always KU members who were most active in this discussion, but for example from some quarters it was argued that the KU only expressed critical views in the cases where the word a criticism was used in the KU's conclusions. To make it clear that this is not the case without the KU being able to express critical views in a variety of ways, the committee decided this year, on my proposal, not to use the word. Instead, critical views are expressed in other words. In addition, I feel that this year there was an ambition in the committee to try to create an even broader consensus on how we should look at the way the KU expresses itself and how we should interpret the KU's positions. We chose in committee to allow that process to take the form of a debate on a press release. A press release on the KU's review has been prepared each year, but members of the committee have not previously been involved in this work. Now we agreed to divide the press release into two sections. The first is the heading and the Government's administration and the action taken by the ministers. There we list the cases where we agree that the KU points out deficiencies of various kinds. The second section has the title and other findings of the review, and some of KU's other conclusions are presented. I consider it very valuable that we have also been able to agree on this press release in order to provide a structure and a framework for interpreting how to read the KU report. I would like to thank Members for their good cooperation and efforts in this work too. We will come back later in this debate to the various dossiers in more detail. I should just like to give a brief overview of what is mentioned under the heading. In last year's review debate, I stated that the cases could be grouped according to a three-step model, and I was going to do the same today. On the top step are matters where the government's actions conflict with the form of government or its purpose. There is this year the case of the Minister for the Interior's statements on a European Border Guard, where the Minister of the Interior provided incorrect information to the KU in a hearing in spring 2016. The KU says that the Government has made constitutional control more difficult, which is regulated in the 13th chapter of the Government. On the same step there is also a matter of the Minister of Culture not fulfilling the position of the EU Board of Governors in the Council of Ministers, a position that was the result of a consultation obligation that is regulated in the form of government and specified in the Parliamentary Order. In fact, last year the Minister of Culture received criticism for exactly the same thing. On the middle step are matters where there has been a mistake but where it is not a direct conflict with the form of government but a conflict with other norms. There are a number of cases, such as incorrect statements by ministers on various subjects, such as the national coordinator against violent extremism, the sale of German lignite by Vattenfall and a debate article on advertising tax. On the bottom step there are formal procedural errors and administrative problems. There we mention a number of cases where slow registration has caused problems. We also mention a case of lack of documentation regarding the state's relationship with Nordea. In these different cases, which all contain critical remarks, the KU provides guidance on how good government work should be carried out. The KU is unique. The KU examines small and large every year. Step by step, an ever-widening practice for good government work is being built. This has now been going on for more than 200 years, and I hope it will last a long time. With this, Mr President, the KU submits its review report to Parliament.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-36	Mr President, I would like to Honourable Members and colleagues! I would first like to express my warm thanks for the kind words of the committee chairman. I would also like to agree, in essence, with what Mr President has just begun our report to the House. I would also like to agree with the importance of our work on drafting a press release. I thought it was noticed at the press conference. There was quite a reasonable emphasis on questions and answers. After all, it did not rule out questions about other notifications and our positions. I would like to say that the Socialist Group, both in the Constitutional Committee and, as has been reported internally, the whole Socialist parliamentary group, as a principle, wants to work in a way that seeks to reach agreement in our assessments. The reviews during the previous term of office, 2010– 2014, represented a great deal of media interest. It's not something you should criticize. There were also very big issues on the agenda at the time. It was about and how the then government governed the Swedish authorities in the negotiations regarding the cooperation agreement with Saudi Arabia, and it was Nuon's case, i.e. how the joint preparation one in the government and documentation on how Vattenfall would buy Nuon was handled. The result of these processes in the Constitutional Committee was majority wording with accompanying reservations. The work of the Constitutional Committee was made more difficult in various ways by the contradictions that were already evident during the preparation of the dossiers. Both from within and from outside, one has to ask what legitimacy can come from this type of review process, with serious issues that from the outset seem almost doomed to lead to a majority – in this case for the opposition parties in the Riksdag – and a little pious reservations in favour of government work. The Constitutional Committee and our review of the Ministers of State have since 1809. The activity has varied. In connection with the 1970 constitutional reform, the system could have been dismantled, but instead the influence of the US Congress's hearings – the hearings on President Trump are currently underway – has stimulated a development in the same way here, namely with oral hearings. Media interest, through the potential level of conflict, has been great, although cases have not always been of real importance for the enforcement of regulations. In addition, we have mostly had minority governments, and this has led to this form of political-legal scrutiny being given a very high profile. The role is decreed by the Constitutional Committee through the form of government. But the question is how to exercise it. One can think for a moment about what we would have had for other processes if we had not had the KU's review. One possibility, which could have been developed both by regulations in constitutions and perhaps also by practice, would be for the ordinary courts to review the official duties of the ministers and the administration of government matters – thus as a parallel to the law enforcement law that exists and which is carefully regulated, or the judicial review that sometimes takes place in the courts, where it is assessed whether the government has taken a decision on a satisfactory legal basis. This is not an impossible development, in which the courts, gradually – in our case from district courts and administrative courts all the way up to the highest levels – would in some way review the performance of their duties and the handling of government matters. It is also possible to imagine that the scope of the judicial ombudsmen's scrutiny had been broadened. These opportunities remain today with the officials of the Government Office. It would also have been possible to imagine that the Swedish National Audit Office would have been able to play that role. I cannot see that it would have been a strikingly better alternative to the opportunity that we have and that we have been working on in recent years, namely to seek negotiated interpretations that are legitimising internally for us as Members of Parliament and for the representatives of the respective parties in the government and which also have the character of legitimacy in the whole of the other scrutiny society in which we live. I would like to make some further observations on this year's review. We've come into review by the Prime Minister. It is a sensitive issue that the Constitutional Committee often tries to push away because it affects the current government, which in turn is based on a vote in Parliament. A prime minister has been approved, i.e. he has not received a majority against him. But we also know that a prime minister may be subject to a motion of censure. Is an absolute majority of the Members then for such a one, the Prime Minister is obliged to resign. These are serious matters, of course, concerning the individual Prime Minister. But that also applies to the whole issue of government. The government rules the kingdom. And it is an important fact that, although we basically have minority parliamentarism, the governance system works. This year we have approached this rather sensitive issue through various notifications. There have been complaints about appeals against the beach protection case n in the Government Office, both for the current term of office and for the previous one. We have discussed the issue of the involvement of former ministers in the review process in the Constitutional Committee, and we have come to the issue of statements made by the Prime Minister. Perhaps it can be said in retrospect that it has turned out that we have found a gentle but clear way forward when it comes to being able to review the performance of a prime minister's duties. Mr President, I would like to Despite the running out of time, I would also like to mention a wording that I believe is important for the future. It is a letter that applies precisely to how the Prime Minister has spoken here in Parliament. We are somewhat critical of the fact that the Prime Minister's statements have not been correct in all respects. However, what I would like to emphasise is that the Office has well highlighted the issue of the application of Chapter 1 of the form of government. 9 §, where it is stated that the government should be guided by no interests other than factual. When you look at both constitutional comments that have been and a study of the issues, you can see that this question applies when the government is an authority and applies case management to individuals or for example municipalities or public or private cooperatives or companies. However, it does not require that a minister or prime minister in the sense of factually be bound by certain reasoning or the determination of circumstances. The debate function and the principle of freedom of expression also apply to the Minister and Prime Minister. I hope that the clear position we have taken here this year can play a decisive role when we continue to have to deal with complaints or discussions that refer to the factual requirement of Chapter 1 of the government form. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would also like to explain that we Social Democrats are satisfied with the Constitutional Committee's report No 20.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-52	Mr President, I would like to We in the KU have now completed our annual review of the government and the duties of the ministers. A total of 32 notifications have been dealt with by the committee. On 8 June, we submitted our review report to the KU20 at a press conference. So it is the review report that we are discussing today. Later today we will be discussing and possibly debating the various parts of this review report, but in the opening part I would like to highlight what the committee has come up with in a more comprehensive way. The notifications received to the committee have concerned a number of different areas, as usual. These include the government's relationship with the Riksdag, the handling of government matters, the government's responsibility for administration, state companies and, of course, the ministry of the ministers. The committee has found that there are clear shortcomings in nine dossiers. From a constitutional point of view, the most serious shortcoming, at least in my opinion, is the false task of the Minister for Home Affairs to the committee during last year's hearing on European border guard, which the Chairman was discussing. In our position, supported by all parties, including the Minister's own, we express ourselves in the following way: This means that the Government has failed in its communication to the committee and thus made constitutional control more difficult. ..................................................... This is, as I mentioned, the most serious criticism from a purely constitutional point of view. Just as we write in our position, Minister Anders Ygeman has also made it more difficult for Parliament to exercise control by submitting incorrect information to the committee. One condition for the control authority to function is that those who are controlled also ensure that the information they provide to us in committee, our reviewer, is correct. If Ministers do not continue to do so, there is a clear risk that the integrity of the committee will be called into question. Another matter that I believe will have a major political impact is the Government's tours around Vattenfall and lignite operations in Germany. The question was originally purely political, at least as long as the electoral movement was still in operation. Then the situation became sharp, and the party that had previously gone country and country round waved a piece of coal in one hand and a vow in the other suddenly changed foot. They claimed that they now discovered that they were constitutionally prevented from stopping the sale. That is when it became a matter for us in the Constitutional Committee. The committee's examination is clear on this point: it was possible to say no to the sale without changing the mandate for Vattenfall. On the part of the committee, we express this by emphasising the importance of the Council of State's statements being based on accurate data. The consequences of this, of course, remain to be seen. I can imagine, however, that there are a lot of environmentalist members and voters who actually believed in that little fun healthy and squeezing the mouthpiece that not long ago stood on the barricades waving the coal in one hand and the election promise in the other. It was never as he promised. Our position, therefore, on the part of the brown coal affair is probably the most dramatic political one. In media languages, it is usually called that the minister is dotted or criticized by the KU. Of course, what criticism will now be directed at, above all, MP from its remaining voters is not a matter for us in committee, but it is probably so interesting from a purely political point of view. In addition, the committee makes several observations. These should primarily be seen as a contribution to the government. In some parts, too, there is something that most would probably call a deficiency. One such example is the Prime Minister's claim that the Swedish Democrats never even voted for their own budget. A united constitutional committee notes that Prime Minister Lövven's statement was wrong in this part and also stresses the importance of the government's statements being correct. With regard to this year's review, there is only one reservation. It comes from my own party, the Swedish Democrats. What it is about, we will report later in the debate. Now, Mr President, I would like to conclude this opening speech by thanking my committee colleagues from all parties very much for their constructive work. I would like to extend my sincere thanks to our excellent office and, of course, to the President and wish everyone a happy and pleasant summer.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-66	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the KU20, the Spring Review of the KU. This is the part of our review that usually attracts a little more attention, as it is based on the reports that every Member of Parliament can make at any time of the year. At the end of January, we usually collect all the year's notifications. Then we examine them to see if the ministers have complied with the rules for the work of the government. Prior to this year's review report, 34 audit reports were received, of which 2 have been postponed in the event of legal proceedings. Fourteen of the investigated cases came from the Moderates, seven from the Swedish Democrats, two from each Liberals, the Christian Democrats, the Center Party, the Environmental Party and the Left Party. One came from the Social Democrats. In other words, this year it is, and perhaps quite naturally, mainly the current government that is being examined. The previous government is only being examined in three cases. Nevertheless, there are also some comments in which we draw attention to both governments. This applies in particular to comments on registration and late processing times. As several speakers have already mentioned, during this parliamentary term very good cooperation has developed in the KU, for which I would particularly like to thank our Bureau, Andreas Norlén and Björn von Sydow. This means that the whole committee agrees on almost everything in the committee's report, which I see as a great strength. The shortcomings we have found in this year's review are, in my view, characterised by the role of the Constitutional Committee as the good auditor. Among other things, the KU has highlighted long processing times, late archiving, record keeping and unclear statements. Many of the ministers have been examined in the role of departmental managers. I believe that the hearings and scrutiny of the Constitutional Committee are an important piece of the puzzle in improving the working methods of the Government Office. Previous speakers have examined all the dossiers and, since we have such a great deal of agreement, I shall not repeat this. Instead, I thought in future in the chapters deep dive into some errand in each area that I think I deserve it a little extra. At the outset, I would like to highlight the issue of Vattenfall and the statements made by some ministers in connection with the sale of coal mines in Germany. In April last year, Vattenfall's board of directors proposed that the company sell its German lignite business. The government took a position on the proposal in so-called ownership coordination. Responsible ministers stated that the government was not in a position to say no to Vattenfall's proposal to sell the German lignite business without first changing Vattenfall's mandate. In the run-up to the decision on lignite sales, there was also an environmental discussion in which the question was whether to say no to a sale and instead leave lignite in the ground. However, this aspect was not relevant when the government discussed the matter with Vattenfall's board. The review by the Constitutional Committee shows that it was possible to say no to the sale without changing the mandate for Vattenfall. The committee stresses the importance of the government's statements being based on accurate data. ..................................................... The issue of Vattenfall's ownership directive has often been raised to various judgments in the KU. Throughout, the question leads to many different aspects being raised. It is not simply to separate what we think politically from other things when it comes to such big business that Vattenfall has carried out. The Parliament simply wants views on the issue of Vattenfall, and it is quite often the case. The contradiction between the two concepts contained in the Ownership Directive, namely that Vattenfall should be commercial in nature and that it should be a leader in the environmental transition, has also proved difficult. These two aspects have led to a lot of political concern over the years, not only in the KU but also in the political debate. In this year's review we have looked at statements from Åsa Romson and Isabella Lövin. At the same time, it is important to point out that we have not examined the affair itself and its relationship with commercialism. Nor have we looked at other possible alternatives and to what extent, for example, it would have been possible, without first going to Parliament, to drive the option of keeping all coal mines but then not allowing Vattenfall to take any coal out of them. After all, there are those who believe that such an option could have major commercial consequences for the state and thus for taxpayers. There are also those who suspect that such an option could be something for which the government could have to compensate Vattenfall. I myself come from the Green Party, and I remember very well how the debate went and what demands and wishes the environmental movement made on the Green Party. Those demands were just about the state keeping the coal mines but putting them in a moth bag. We have not yet got a complete conclusion on either the business or the environmental part of the deal and how it has gone. But we do know a few things: that Vattenfall itself now has a greater chance of becoming an environmental leader, as they can raise some money. Instead of investing in coal, they can invest in renewables. We know that Germany's environmental requirements have now stopped the planned expansion of coal. One of the mines is completely stopped, and three are paused. The whole idea of divesting instead of investing in coal, that is, getting rid of to make unprofitable, seems to have worked. In parallel, the government has worked hard to tighten up the EU ETS by scrapping allowances. The deal in the EU is about removing 1.5 billion tonnes of CO2 by 2030 and removing from 2024 the same amount of allowances that the EU emits annually. The Swedish Government's contribution is to buy allowances for SEK 300 million annually that can be scrapped. The plan is that this will be able to continue until 2040 and that we will then have scrapped allowances for about three times the entire Swedish carbon dioxide emissions.
i-5aNkP1jPaAvgsjo7MnajZ5	Mr President, I would like to This year's KU review of the ministers and the work of the government has led to criticism of ministers in nine cases – shortcomings in the government's handling of matters. In three further cases, the KU has pointed out shortcomings in the record keeping and documentation of the Government Office. It is of great value that the Constitutional Committee's conclusions are unanimous in these matters, as the KU interprets and develops the rules on how Sweden should be governed. In essence, this is about safeguarding transparency and public access, the accuracy of statements by ministers, the correct adoption of government decisions – no ministerial government, no conflict of interest – and the fact that the ministers represent Sweden in the EU as decided by the Parliament's EU Board. The unity of the KU is valuable, and I would particularly like to thank the President and Vice-President of the KU for the efforts made to achieve this consensus. Some cases have already received a lot of attention in connection with the notification to the KU. This applies, among other things, to the issues of how Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström and Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist acquired their apartments when they became Minister of State. The KU has not criticized how they acquired their apartments, but criticism has been levelled at identified shortcomings in registration within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including in relation to a letter from the trade union Kommunal and also in relation to the Ministry of Defence's handling through a State Secretary in contacts with the military housing foundation MHS-Bostäder. Furthermore, in the light of the findings in these cases, the KU points out that the government should make it easier for new ministers who do not live in Stockholm to buy apartments. Delaying registration within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also criticised in the context of the Government Security Council campaign. Media that sought information about the campaign's funding and contacts with Dag Hammarskjöld's Memorial Fund did not receive this information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, what has now emerged from the KU's review shows that there is no criticism of how the government has dealt with the so-called DAC rules on the financing of aid funds, in this case of the Security Council campaign. Former Minister of Economic Affairs Annie Lööf attended a hearing in KU on 6 April for a letter from the EU Industrial Commissioner. It was a letter that came to the Ministry of Industry in 2012. The letter received a lot of attention in Svenska Dagbladet in connection with Volkswagen's emission scandal. The information in Svenska Dagbladet was based on an article in the German weekly Der Spiegel. KU's review of the letter and its handling within the Ministry of Industry has shown that the letter was not related to the exhaust gas scandal, as Svenska Dagbladet stated in the article. It was this article that led to the very notification to the Constitutional Committee. Within the government at the time, it was not Minister of Economic Affairs Annie Lööf who was responsible for dealing with issues relating to market surveillance of automotive products, which the letter was actually about. The review has therefore not led to a statement by the Constitutional Committee. Another case that has received considerable attention is Vattenfall's sales last year of lignite operations in Germany. In connection with the government's handling of this matter, three ministers, Mikael Damberg, Åsa Romson and Isabella Lövin, stated in various statements that the government could only answer yes to Vattenfall's request to sell the business to a Czech company. They felt that there would otherwise have been a need for an amended ownership directive. The KU has found the statements of the three ministers wrong and criticises them for being inappropriate. We have noted that there would not have been a need for a new owner directive for Vattenfall to continue operations. The government could thus have said no to Vattenfall's request to sell the business. The KU criticises the Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog and the Prime Minister for long processing times within the Ministry of the Environment for beach protection matters. It is a problem that the previous government also had. In a beach protection case that the KU has particularly taken note of, it took over a year and four months before the Government Office took in the additions needed for the matter to be dealt with. The KU considers this unacceptable and believes that both the Head of Department and the Prime Minister are responsible for better planning within the Government Office. On three counts, the KU criticises Minister for Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. It concerns the statement about who hired Mona Sahlin's former bodyguard to conduct media contacts in her activities as a national coordinator. In fact, it was the Minister who made the decision, but in a statement she made it appeared that she had not done so. So that was inappropriate. The same inquisitiveness was noted in a debate article in Dagens Nyheter in August 2016 on advertising tax. Alice Bah Kuhnke had written the article, and there it was falsely claimed that the announcement of the Parliament on the advertising tax was directed against the government of Reinfeldt. In fact, the announcement came back in 2002 and was directed against Göran Persson's government – an inquisitiveness. The third criticism concerns a statement that Alice Bah Kuhnke did not make in the Council of Ministers of the European Union. She would have stated the Swedish position that culture, sport and education issues belong to the national competence as decided by the EU Board, but she never presented it. These were some interesting questions that I have raised in the KU's work on the KU report. We are continuing the debate, and there is certainly much more to be emphasised.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-96	Mr President, I would like to I suspect that it may be a little confused for some who have listened to the whole debate when the President begins to inform us that the KU has chosen not to use the word criticism. However, the KU finds various things that we see as shortcomings, sometimes among ministers and sometimes more generally in the administration in the departments. In the last speech there was a lot of talk about criticism that the KU has addressed, but we have highlighted things where we see that there are shortcomings. We may also view these shortcomings differently, that is, how critical we are in fact behind the words on which we are able to agree. But we agree in our writings. This is not only because we have worked to reach agreement, but also because, relatively speaking, there have been cases of a slightly less explosive nature than it has sometimes been. There is no Saudi Arabia case or Nuon deal. There are a little more limited cases that are not as big as kiosk rollers. The big kiosk roller is probably Vattenfall. This matter has also been up in the past on several occasions. As far as Vattenfall is concerned, we note that the need for correct statements, which several speakers have raised, is important. We have had discussions about things concerning the form of government or not. Even if they do, or do not, questions that affect the debate can still be serious. I believe that the statements that it would not be possible to sell lignite in Germany actually affected the debate. It's serious. Of course it was possible to say no to the sale. On the other hand, it might not have been possible at all to leave the coal on the hill, which was highlighted earlier. But that is not the question we have examined. Was it possible to say yes or no to the store? It was possible to say no. If you'd said no to the deal, at a later stage, you might have done it differently or not. It is important not to make false statements. Sometimes we can consider that it is smart that a minister is not so sure and says that it is not possible to say no to the deal. This is particularly true as it is difficult to interpret the different parts of Vattenfall's regulatory framework in the Ownership Directives. We have also raised questions about documentation and record keeping. These may seem to be minor questions, but the problem with them is that they return every year. Every year we have cases that are not documented, and we cannot therefore come up with anything because we cannot make a proper follow-up – not because the KU notes that there are no problems but because the KU states that it is not possible to follow up properly because there are shortcomings in the documentation. This is a major problem, and I assume that all departments are continuing to work on matters relating to the registration and registration of public documents. When the KU discovers things and asks for actions or when the media starts to look at things, it happens that actions that have since been registered. Then you can think about which documents have not been registered and which no one has asked for. What errands have we not seen? It's really bad. Documents shall be registered and official documents recorded. This is something that the KU, unfortunately, will see in the next review as well. I hope you won't let me, but I'm afraid I don't think that's the case. Although these are minor matters, they are still serious issues. That's where it's good that the KU agrees. These are things you need to work with regardless of government.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-103	Mr President, I would like to So, then, we are here after a large number of sitting hours, many hearings, a lot of thinking and reading of documents to debate our review report. As a committee novice, I would particularly like to thank a committee that is phenomenal to cooperate with and a secretariat that is always available regardless of the time of day. This is a case for the Swedish Work Environment Authority, I would argue, but it facilitates the important work that this committee has to do. It is a unique committee in many ways. My thanks, of course, also go to the chairman and vice-chairman of the committee, who sets the framework for this examination. I must admit that I was sceptical that we could keep the KU spirit, all the way to the goal, but I'll have to see myself proven. So far, at least. Together, we have succeeded in providing the KU with the framework and content that this committee is expected to have and deserves to have. For you, I do not need to explain the importance of a committee in this House having this role – that we examine the government, that we get and can do so and that we do so in a way that guarantees stability and credibility regardless of which of the two sides is in Rosenbad during this or the next parliamentary term. My Liberal Committee predecessor, Mathias Sundin, said in last year's debate that once is no time; twice is a habit. This is because there was an almost unanimous committee behind last year's review report. This year is the third year, so let's call it an established habit. It is a habit that I think we should try to maintain and pass on to future generations. The fact that we are in agreement here and now does not mean that we have no political dividing lines. On the day we do not have it, we can close both Parliament and the Constitutional Committee. Long live ideologies and the diversification of politics! Sometimes I can also think that it has felt a little strange and that it had felt a little better, if not short-term, to be able to deliver a political rallar wing from time to time. We're all full-blood politicians in here. Nevertheless, I have to say that in the long term this is the way to work much more satisfying – and, as I have said, of great importance to parliamentary order and democracy. Together, the KU has weighed and measured all the notifications and arguments on the basis of the mandate we have in this committee: how are the notifications and actions in relation to the laws and regulations we and our ministers have to comply with? We have come to the conclusion in almost total agreement that out of the 34 notifications received by the committee, 9 notifications lead to the notification of deficiencies – the new KU word for criticism – in matters relating to the government's handling and the actions of the ministers and 3 notifications to remarks on the registration and documentation of the Government Office. Just as Mia Sydow Mölleby said earlier, it may seem like small matters, but in fact it is of the utmost importance for us to maintain the open democracy we have that something as simple as registration and routines actually works in our system. Otherwise, for time to come, I intend to go into specific matters in the ensuing debate. With that, I will add this chapter to the record.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-113	Mr President, I would like to When you hear the review of the government by the KU and the Constitutional Committee, what do you think about? Are you thinking of 1,250 pages that we've worked out this spring? Or are you possibly thinking of a famous quote about knowing the hut? I would like to say that we do well to think of the 1 250 pages before thinking of a catchy quote. The KU's review is based on an enormous amount of work. KU has reviewed 32 cases during the spring. After all, every Member of Parliament has the right to file a complaint and ask the KU to review something that is possibly wrong under the regulations, possibly not. Everything is done as carefully as if it were a police investigation. You do a preliminary investigation and go through all the facts of the case. It's more of a legal judgment than anything. Many in the committee – but not me – have legal background and education. Those in the cabinet, who are excellent, have it throughout if they are not political scientists. The KU has a very special task, and it has become increasingly clear over the years. To put it in its context, I have to go back to 1810. In the 1810 Parliamentary Order, it is stated in Section 76 of the Swedish Parliament that everything that the Riksdag has approved or left unobserved should be considered to have won decharge in respect of the audited, and no new to liability for binding scrutiny of the new Parliament in the same case should be allowed. ..................................................... Hence the expression decharge debate. That was the name of the review debate earlier. It comes from the French decharge, which means unloading. In this context, it is a matter of discharge granted for the performance of tasks. It then designated a discharge granted by Parliament to the members of the Government. The discharge won was called decharge. But now it's not quite the same thing. In the current form of government, Chapter 13. Paragraph 1 provides that KUs are to review the performance of their duties and the administration of government matters. In 2009, the Constitutional Committee sat down and tried to formulate what this means in RFR14, or the KU's little green as it is called – Constitutional control functions are the correct name. It serves as a handbook since 2009. On p. 11, it is mentioned that the KU in 1968 stated that the basic idea is that the review should be administrative and not politically oriented. It has been followed ever since. According to the Constitution bill 1973:90 p. 415, the review now focuses primarily on judicial control and administrative practice. That's the way it should be. It is a matter of checking whether, in the performance of their duties, the Ministers of State and the Government Office have complied with the rules and practices in force in their dealings with government matters. In the event of failure to act, the question of the obligation to act was examined in accordance with rules and practices. The background rules that are primarily referred to in the review are those relating to the procedural and competence rules of the government and the parliamentary system, i.e. rules on legislative referral, norm-making competence and proposal delivery. However, it may also be a matter of substantive legal provisions that the Government applies to decisions in administrative matters, such as provisions in the Aliens Act, the Plan and Construction Act and the Privacy Act. It may have to do with whether the government and its Members have made factual and correct statements or not. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs takes great care to give its opinion in such a way that there is a substantive review of an individual case. Normally, the KU does not interfere with the material assessment made by the government, i.e. the political assessment. So we are not trying whether the government has done the right thing politically, has shown good judgment or the like. We cannot go in beforehand or afterwards and make a political assessment and indicate a political path. Having said that, the members of the Constitutional Committee should make an assessment: has this followed the form of government? Has it followed good practice, i.e. the established practice? I have now been a member of the Constitutional Committee for seven years. Before that, I sat for four years as a working alternate. I have to say that what I have now read out as an ideal for how the KU is to operate and as has been said since 1968 has now been implemented for three years in a row: we have together managed to put aside the policy and make assessments of practice, of regulations, whether it is good government and whether it has followed the form of government. That's why it weighs heavily. Three times in a row is very important. This is what the KU said earlier, and now it has become a reality. Later in this debate – we will debate the rest of this Monday – I will go through concrete cases. I would just like to mention that what stands out in the extra detail of this year's review are several cases of incorrect statements. We cannot accept that. When the ministers, in their capacity as ministers of state, speak, it must be correct. You have the right to be human as a politician as well, and you should be in some contexts. But in the role of minister, you cannot allow yourself to slip anything from the truth. We're supposed to be able to trust what a minister says. We're human beings, and we're doing it wrong. But then the KU points out that this could be done better. Perhaps the most important thing in what we have done is not these 1 250 pages, but actually a small simple press release. This press release serves as an interpretation key to these more than 1 000 pages, because we are talking about how it should be understood. There are twelve points where there are criticisms – remarks about the government's way of handling its office. We think it is urgent that we do it right. I would like to conclude by thanking the members of the Constitutional Committee, in particular the President and Vice-President, for their good cooperation. This would not have been possible if we had not done it together. Both for the government side and for the opposition side, there are great temptations to make politics out of this. We're going to be re-elected. How on earth can you become that when you're all alone? Perhaps that is not the very best way to meet the voters. But this is about doing the task that the governance has put in our laps in the best way possible. That too, I think, should be rewarded by the voters. I would also like to thank the office, which has done an excellent job. It is not we Members who sit and poke these 1,250 pages together and choose every word, but the office gives us the basis in which we poke and which we work with. But we are completely dependent on it working from the office. We thank you very much for that.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-129	Mr President, I would like to I was going to highlight a special review issue that we call the G13, the involvement of former ministers in the review of the Constitutional Committee. It is under chapter 1, and some questions about the government's relationship with the Riksdag. The KU has previously carried out a review of what can be expected from a former minister called into the KU hearing, and how to deal with former ministers who do not appear at KU hearings. However, this is extremely rare and risks overturning the constitutional committee's practice or scrutiny role, when the KU examines whether the government and ministers comply with laws and rules. The members of the Parliament have the right to report the ministers of the Government to the KU and make a so-called KU notification. The committee then examines whether or not the ministers who have been notified have been wrong. When I meet school classes I usually simplistically resemble a detective work, because that's almost how we work. We carefully follow up on all the clues we can to see how things have been handled. After the committee's work, it was stated to the government that current ministers and former ministers should be at the disposal of the KU, even after their time as ministers. The KU stated that these commitments should be drawn up in writing, as they should be subject to satisfactory follow-up. In order to stress the need for written commitments, the committee stressed in its examination that this should be followed up and that the form in which the commitments had been made should be indicated. This was last February. On 25 May 2016, i.e. only a few months later, some new ministers were appointed. Despite the KU's statement, however, the Prime Minister did not demand a written assurance of participation in the KU's post-Ministerial review. About a year ago, in June last year, the Government Office was alerted to the fact that the Constitutional Committee was referring to signed documents. Then also signed documents were produced. I will read a paragraph describing what the committee wanted: The Constitutional Committee shall, in accordance with the form of the Government, review the performance of the duties of the Ministers of State and the handling of government matters. The committee has the right to obtain for the examination the minutes of decisions in government matters, the documents relating to these matters and the other documents of the government which it considers necessary for its examination. The committee may also obtain information through written statements and oral hearings of, among others, ministers and former ministers. There is no formal obligation for ministers or former ministers to participate in the hearings of the Constitutional Committee. However, the Ministers of the Government that took office on 3 October 2014 have committed themselves to always participate fully in the constitutional review and this even after the termination of the mandate as Minister of State. The commitment therefore means that they will always take part in hearings called by the Constitutional Committee on the occasion of their examination. This whole system is based on the fact that there is trust between the Riksdag and the Swedish Prime Minister and that the Prime Minister demands this from the ministers. In the autumn of 2014, it was also very clear in the media that this had been demanded. The committee has also taken this line in its report in connection with the investigation. However, there is still no legal requirement for ministers to appear at the KU hearings. The committee then wanted to implement some form of practice, as has been mentioned earlier. When ministers are called to the KU hearing, they want them to appear. There is, however, a former minister who did not come to the KU hearing. That person will probably be associated with it forever. I suppose it's an incentive for something to actually appear for questioning. The Committee's position in this particular case, the G13, is that it expects the Prime Minister to make such demands in connection with the formation of government. In the Committee's view, the demands and commitments should also be drawn up in writing, as has already been mentioned. The committee notes that the Prime Minister has made such demands on the incoming Minister. The content of the commitments was already expressed in writing at the outset. But only after a few months were signed commitments made. The committee also notes that signed commitments were not made immediately, which was not satisfactory. However, we welcome the fact that the Prime Minister has now made arrangements in accordance with the committee's previous position. Personally, I am very proud that our Socialist Prime Minister is the first to apply the practice that the KU has pressed for implementation, as the committee believes that practice is preferable before we put forward a proposal for any legislation on this issue. I hope that this practice will continue to be maintained and applied. Otherwise, I would like to thank the President, the Registry and the other committee for their good cooperation.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-144	Mr President, I would like to In this debate round, I intend to dwell on three review dossiers – 13, 25 and 34. Case 13 deals, as we heard Veronica Lindholm carefully explain here, with the involvement of former ministers in the KU review. First of all, I would like to stress that, in order for the committee to be able to carry out its supervisory powers, it is absolutely crucial that the KU is able to access information and information on the matters that the KU is examining. In the exercise of this power of control, it may of course be as important that the KU has the opportunity to hear a outgoing minister as a sitting one. That is why, according to the committee, it is also important, urgent and welcome that the Prime Minister has introduced a system in accordance with the committee's previous position on this issue. Here we really agree in committee. In concrete terms, this means, in my words, if I may sound a little tedious after Veronica Lindholm, that the Prime Minister, in connection with the formation of the government, will demand a commitment to participate in the KU's review even after he has left his mission. In order for the KU to be able to follow up and do so satisfactorily, the KU stated in its report that the commitments should be drawn up in writing when the matter was dealt with. It was perceived and repeated by several members in the parliamentary debate held in February 2016. After the spring's examination and hearing of the Prime Minister, the KU has understood that the Prime Minister believed that he fulfilled the KU's demand for written form when, in response to the committee's request, he submitted a written statement of the content of the Government's commitments. According to the Prime Minister, it was only during this contact between the Government Office and the KU Office in June last year that the Prime Minister realized that the committee in writing intended the commitments to be signed by the Ministers of State by themselves. Mr President, I would like to I may be cutting the KU's unity at the edge now, but personally I can find it extremely strange that the Prime Minister could have the view that the requirement for the state ministers' assurance in written form was met without the ministers having signed any assurance whatsoever. When the misunderstanding as to what the KU intended to do was well investigated, the Prime Minister was indeed coming up with commitments signed by all the ministers. This took place between 20 September and 4 October. As has been said, the KU welcomes the introduction of this regime by the Prime Minister, but the committee also writes in the report that it is not satisfactory that the signature was delayed. Another examination I will briefly say about case No 25 on the press release on the Nobel Center in Stockholm. Governments of all colours are, of course, free to state in the press release that support is given to a particular activity, or in this case contribute to the operation of the future Nobel Center. However, in order for a government to be able to finance, or as in this case, participate in the financing of the Nobel Center, a decision is assumed by the Swedish Parliament. The government doesn't have its own cash to cash out. However, the press release issued by the Government Office on 23 November 2016 did not provide any information on this. It is absolutely certain that the state will contribute to the operation of the Nobel Center with SEK 40 million per year from the opening of the Centre and three years forward. The committee notes that the press release thus risks giving a false impression, and stresses the importance of information in press releases giving a correct and fair view of the status of the case. Mr President, I would like to Finally, Study No 34 deals with the actions of Minister for Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke in the Council of Ministers on the Council conclusions on culture in the EU's external relations. The EU Board and the Government had agreed that the Minister for Culture of the Council of Ministers on 23-24 November 2015 would emphasise that cultural policy is a national matter. However, the Government's written report did not reveal whether the Government was pursuing this line. During the oral re-reporting in the EU Board, the Minister's Secretary of State knew to tell you: The Secretary of State thus tried to explain that at the meeting there was no need to argue that culture was a national matter. Of course, it may seem zealous at the top of the list that the KU is, at the time, calling for a Council of Ministers to refrain from pursuing the decision of the EU Council, in this case to highlight national competence in cultural policy, when the issue of competence did not come up on the table at the Council meeting. It may seem overzealous, but, in line with the KU's previous positions, the KU believes that it is important to emphasise the importance of fully pursuing positions that have been anchored in the EU Council. If the Government considers that a deviation from the EU Board's position is necessary – such situations may arise – it is possible to seek renewed contact with the Board. It may sound dramatic, but it's about the phone. However, this did not happen in this case. It is further stated from the parliamentary order and its preparatory work that if the Government does not act in accordance with the EU Board's position for any reason, the reasons for this shall be stated in the written report. That was not the case in this case either. The reporting was therefore incomplete. The KU concludes that Minister Alice Bah Kuhnke was guilty of a similar neglect in the reporting back to the EU Board also during the period of last year's review. With those words, I'll put an end to it.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-157	Mr President, I would like to As we have heard here before, the KU therefore expects even departed ministers to come when the KU calls. An absolute minimum level has been agreed for the Prime Minister to produce a paper informing incoming ministers of this. The fact that we Swedish democrats find such a system somewhat inadequate is hardly news to anyone. We have also spoken specifically about this in all the contexts on which this issue has been addressed. Among other things, when the matter was being prepared in connection with the last autumn review, we warned that the document should be seen as symbolic as soon as possible, since it has no legal effect. Obviously, the Prime Minister has also seen it as symbolic, since we have now had a discussion about whether or not this note needs to be signed. To be perfectly honest, Mr President, it seems to me rather egalitarian whether a note that does not mean anything is signed or not. I know parties in this House who apply similar procedures when it comes to their Members of Parliament. In order to run for office, you have little choice but to sign a note to renounce all positions of trust if you leave the party. At the same time, many will understand that as long as legal support is lacking, it will still be up to the individual to decide how to do it when such a situation arises. To believe that the ministers would reason differently – i.e. say yes, thank you and amen to get the assignment and then not reserve the right to make a new trial without the risk of sanctions once it becomes serious – would be almost a little naive, to use one of the latest years' top fashion words in Swedish politics. If there is anyone in here who is possibly dissatisfied with the current regime that people can do a little as they like regardless of what they may have agreed to in the past, I urge them to join me in reviewing the regulations one more time – at least as far as our review subjects are concerned the ministers. With adequate and appropriate legislation, the KU can in any case strengthen parliamentary control over the government in general. When it comes to individual ministers in particular – what about Alice Bah Kuhnke, Mr President? How difficult should it be to realise that you are actually under parliamentary control and only do as you are told by the people's main representatives in Parliament? Time and again, to say one thing to the European Council and then go down to Brussels and say something else, or in this case more precisely nothing at all, is not going to last in the long run, Mr President. Believe me; both me and my party colleague will come back several times during the day about all the strange things that our so-called Minister for Culture and Democracy has had to do in recent times – or yes, perhaps not all the strange things, because then we would probably have to fold most of this day just for her. However, she appears rather diligently in this year's review report, and the Minister of Culture has, fittingly enough, succeeded with the trick of incurring criticism in all cases where she has been examined. I can understand that it is certainly not simply for someone who has been hand-picked from the culture establishment to learn in a relatively short time, or in this case a few years, all classy formulas about consultation, mandates, re-reporting or committee regulations and handbooks, for that matter – but it does not take away the fact that a majority of the EU Council called on the Minister for Culture to highlight at forthcoming Council meetings the notion that certain issues are national affairs and that will remain so. Once again, the Government promised dearly and sacredly to act in a way that is consistent with Parliament's expectations, just to go down to Brussels and not do a thing. Is there anyone here who is beginning to sense a certain pattern of what people are saying at an early stage and what they are actually doing when it comes down to it? What is worse, Mr President, she not only neglected to do what was troubling her, but she also failed to account for it in the difficult re-report that the stylistic formula dictates to establish in a certain rigid and completely unreative manner. I am not saying that this was necessarily a deliberate attempt to escape. Honestly, I'm not even sure she all the time really knows what is expected of her. It was therefore not for nothing that her State Secretary, on a direct question on the board, was allowed to carry the dog's head and dress shots for her shortcomings. And as usual, it was Sweden and the Swedish people who lost out on it. Speaking of things that Sweden and the Swedes are losing because of the government's inadequate representatives and actions, I must just highlight one more issue in this part, Mr President. Minister for Rural Development Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht participated in the Council of Ministers' negotiations on fishing opportunities in the Baltic Sea for 2017. The preparatory meeting of the EU Board discussed, among other things, some percentages of how much fishing of certain species needs to be restricted in order to be sustainable over time. Furthermore, concerns were expressed that some of our neighbours are pursuing what they call recreational fishing. However, this happens on a scale that most other people would probably describe as almost industrial. We are talking about a greater number of tonnes of fish than the number of individual fish that I will pick up in the summer, Mr President. Finally, it was agreed that the government should stick to the overall Baltic Sea Plan and to the ranges set out therein. Furthermore, it was stated that the general position is that recreational fishing should primarily be regulated nationally. However, the review has shown that the government and the European Commission were not very successful in their negotiations. The percentage reductions achieved were not sufficient to remain within and below the levels of the Baltic Sea Plan, at least not for cod in the Western Baltic Sea. However, as some of our neighbours overexploit recreational fishing in the worst way, the only way to escape, with the mere horror, from regulating recreational fishing for all was by far the only way. Instead of tackling effective measures against misbehavers, all Member States were punished. That cannot be right and reasonable, Mr President. Similarly, I find it highly doubtful whether it could be right and reasonable at all for a single minister to go down to Brussels and throw national self-determination on his own as if it were a bad card game. Mr President, I would like to It is so with power – and perhaps above all with empowerment – that it is not something that you either get or take, but it is something that you give away. Unfortunately, this seems to be exactly what the Minister for Rural Development has done on our behalf, even though it was other countries that were misbehaving. This is regrettable, Mr President, and unfortunately nothing we can do about it any more.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-178	Mr President, I would like to We have now moved on to talk about the first of four parts of this spring's review report. Like several previous speakers, I intend to focus on the question of the involvement of former ministers in the review of the Constitutional Committee. This has been an important issue for the KU during its term of office. The background was what happened during the last parliamentary term, when the KU was to examine the previous government's purchase of Nuon – also an issue related to Vattenfall. In this context, KU wanted to hear former Minister of Economic Affairs Maud Olofsson, but she chose not to heed KU's call but declined to participate. During the later examination it was found that once before a former minister had not arrived when the KU called – it was a minister who was sick when the summons came. That a former minister does not come when the KU calls where and is something very unusual. Now that had happened, it created debate, as it could risk creating a new form of practice and system – more ministers could refuse to appear. If it were to be the case that more former ministers put such action into a system, this would in itself really undermine the possibility for the KU to be able to carry out investigations in the future. We in the KU do not have the opportunity to force anyone to participate. A discussion therefore arose about how the Riksdag will continue to do so that more ex-ministers will not forget to appear. A parliamentary inquiry was set up under Bertil Wennberg, former head of the KU office. Many of the members of the KU also participated in this parliamentary inquiry, which considered various options and finally – by a large majority – landed in proposing a regime in which ministers undertake in writing to participate in the KU hearing even after they finished their ministry duties. The investigation presented its proposal a while ago. After that, it has taken its little time to get everything in place, as we also comment on in the report. We were reminded that there is a difference between the word written and the word signed, which has been raised during the debate. Finally, however, there are also signed papers that ministers will take part in the hearings of the KU even after they have finished their ministry. I think it is good that we have now landed in a system that strengthens the parliamentary power of control in this way, and it is good that the government has heeded Parliament's will.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-187	Mr President, I would like to I would like to comment on some of the matters under this chapter of the KU review. One case concerns the government announced investment in the Nobel Center in Stockholm. The KU has found shortcomings in the press release issued by the government. It was not clear that such an investment would require a parliamentary decision, and the Constitutional Committee considers this to be a certain shortcoming in this case. The matter of former ministers' participation in the review of the Constitutional Committee concerned the notification against Prime Minister Löfven, because he did not ensure that the incoming minister signed this commitment after the matter had been raised in the KU. This has been corrected by the Prime Minister, and now it is the case that the incoming Minister signs a commitment. No obligation for former ministers to come to the KU has existed before. I have already commented on the actions of the Minister for Culture and Democracy in the Council of Ministers. That she did not express what Sweden points out is important. Some issues are national affairs, and it is not the EU that has sovereignty. It is important for Sweden to make such a statement, and the Minister for Culture and Democracy has now once again been informed of this from the Constitutional Committee. I would like to comment on two issues that have not led to criticism. It is about the negotiations on the new EU weapons directive and the negotiations on fishing opportunities in the Baltic Sea. These are matters that were rather debated in the context of the negotiations in the EU on this issue. However, the Constitutional Committee has found no formal shortcomings in the actual handling of these issues vis-à-vis the EU by ministers Anders Ygeman and Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-194	Mr President, I would like to In these cases, which deal with a number of issues relating to the relationship of government with Parliament, which is the title of this chapter of the report, we have eight notifications. Five of them deal with relations between Parliament and the Government in EU matters in different ways. It is about contacts for EU management at ministerial meetings and so on. After all, the government must consult the Swedish Parliament's EU Board and then pursue the line that the EU Board has come up with when the government negotiates in the EU. The Parliament's opinion should also be followed at informal meetings, lunch meetings, etc. within the EU system. Both last year and this year we have ended up in a situation where we have had a case where it is unclear or a little unclear what the EU Board has actually come up with. Members have interpreted different terms of office. This has not led us to have any views on how the government has dealt with the issue, but we have nevertheless had reason to point out that it is actually important to know what the mandate has been given to the government and that the mandate is understood equally by everyone, both the Minister and all the members of the EU Board. This time it was about the fishing quotas. There were some figures during the meeting of the EU Council, but it was not from these that they were then negotiated, but it was a certain range as to where the limits could be set for fishing. It was not entirely clear to everyone on the board how they had landed in the decision. When a minister is to attend a meeting, it also happens that the Riksdag sends with things to be said in addition to the exact decision formulations. Such a matter has been raised several times here in the speaker's chair. It was when Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke took part in the Council of Ministers on Council conclusions on culture in the EU's external relations. The Board endorsed the proposal for Council conclusions but wanted it also to be emphasised in the discussion that cultural policy is a national matter. In the Council of Ministers there was no discussion on this issue. The Minister for Culture and Democracy did not raise his hand and said: in this non-discuss, I would like to stress that cultural issues are a national matter. She also did not interrupt the meeting to call the EU Board and ask if it was okay that she did not raise the issue in the discussion that never happened. She could have done that, but it might have seemed a little strange in this context. But what she would definitely have done was to inform in the report that there was no discussion and that therefore she did not address the issues she had received as a co-sponsor to raise. It is, as I said, five different issues that deal with the relationship between Parliament and the government in terms of decisions ahead of EU meetings. There is now an investigation into how to handle them. It is quite clear that there is a great need to look further at the cooperation of the Government and the Riksdag in relation to EU issues, parliamentary participation and how they should be handled. Until then, it may continue to be a little messy.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-201	Mr President, I would like to As a liberal and a warm supporter of the European Union, I am pleased that the work of the EU Board is highlighted in this debate. I will also dwell on this issue because, in addition to having the honour of being a member of the KU, I am also on the EU Board. That is why I am particularly concerned that we have basically the same issues on the agenda this year as we had last year with regard to the government's relationship with the Parliament's EU Council. We have the question of the Minister of Justice's action in the EU Council on a Swedish position on a reform of the EU's common asylum system, a fairly important issue. We have the question of the actions of Minister for the Interior Anders Ygeman in the negotiations on the new EU arms directive, as well as an important issue. Furthermore, there is the question of the action of Minister for Agriculture Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht in the EU negotiations on a regulation on fishing opportunities in the Baltic Sea. And there is the question of the actions of the Minister for Culture and Democracy. As I said, this is nothing new. As this is my first debate on this type of dossier, I naturally went in and checked what was said last year. I had to cross-check the documents so that I did not read today's report from this meeting, already, but it turned out that it was from last year. It was basically the same thing we said. It was the same ministers and the same problem raised by the committee last year: how should consultation between the government and the EU Board take place? When's that gonna happen? What is to be regarded as an informal and formal meeting in Brussels, and if so, what difference does that make to the room for manoeuvre of the Ministers of State? Even then, the parliamentary inquiry that has to look at Parliament's working methods concerning the EU was welcomed. And I take the opportunity to welcome this investigation this year too. Since we are several KU members in the investigation, I have a strong hope that we do not need to read last year's report in next year's debate again. Of the remarks concerning the government and the EU Council, it is true that only one issue, that of the actions of Minister for Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke in the Council of Ministers, leads to a remark for a pronounced deficiency. The KU agrees that the Council of State failed in the performance of its duties, and for the second time, which makes it all the more serious, when she did not make the statement that she had been required by the EU Council to make in the Council of Ministers. There are several of my colleagues who have explained in detail how this happened. What also deserves to be mentioned is that the notification of the same Alice Bah Kuhnke for her handling of the recruitment of an official to the national coordinator and notification of her debate article on the advertising tax is made to point out a unanimous KU on shortcomings, which should demonstrate the need for a much better governance of the portfolios of the Minister for Culture and Democracy. While the other matters concerning the government and the EU Council do not lead to any statement of shortcomings from the KU, it can be said that they have all arisen because Members of Parliament have considered that there have been uncertainties as to what mandates the ministers have actually received from the Parliament's EU Council and whether they have adhered to them. Mr President, I would like to There are many things that I am proud of in this Parliament, but in particular that Sweden has a unique way of anchoring the Swedish position on EU issues in many ways through open and active work between the government, the various committees and the EU Board, and that is a good thing. It is good if Sweden is to continue to be the clear voice in Europe, and it is needed these days, if not otherwise. But it is a system based on mutual trust, a trust one should be careful of. It is therefore a good thing that we in the KU have now reviewed these notifications, have considered what is reasonable in terms of consultation and anchoring between the government and the Riksdag and are clear that the government has at all times to present the anchored Swedish position, regardless of whether it is at formal or informal meetings that discussion arises. The committee assumes that these reviews will be included in the aforementioned EU inquiry, so that we do not have to stand here again next year and repeat the same things.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-212	Mr President, I would like to I have the unenviable task of going forward and singing to the same notes as the previous ones. When we agree, the variation becomes slightly less. It is important for us, as members of the KU, for each of us to assume their responsibilities. We do not participate as a collective, but each of us has responsibility for what we put our name under. I have found the views of the KU on Chapter 1 and the government's relations with the Riksdag quite excellent, but I want to do like the others and highlight a few things that stand out. When it comes to a future Nobel Center and if this is to be located on Blasieholmen in Stockholm or not, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs notes that there has been a press release that states that the government intends to contribute to the operation of such a centre when it has opened without the question of where the centre should be more closely concerned. Such part-financing requires a decision by the Riksdag, but the press release lacks information about this. This means that the press release risks giving a false impression. It's not good. We can't have it. Therefore, the KU says that we would like to emphasise the importance of the information contained in press releases giving a correct and fair view of the status of the case. It is important that this is done; we cannot have it any different. When it comes to the G13 and the signing of the assurance that you will appear when the KU calls for scrutiny, it is a matter that has been up and running over and over again. It is not satisfactory that the Minister does not come. Of course, a minister should appear when he or she is called to the KU. The Prime Minister quickly went out and said that he had already requested such a signature. On closer examination, this may not have been so clear, but it has had to be reminded and reminded again. A distinction has been made between making a written commitment and making a signed commitment. The Constitutional Committee does not go into more detail, but notes that it was not satisfactory that the signing of the commitment was not made immediately. It'll be good that way. Then the Constitutional Committee is quite generous enough to say that we welcome the fact that the Prime Minister has now made sure to do what we said before. That's where we put an end to KU-manér. Then there is an opportunity with Minister of State and Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke and her shortcoming in doing what she should do, not only when it gets wrong and she says things that are not correct but when she does not say what is actually correct. Others have used the space here to comment, more than is customary in KU contexts. I would just like to read in front of us what we agree on as shortcomings: a meeting of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Culture and Democracy, Alice Bah Kuhnke, agreed that the Council of State would emphasise that cultural policy is a national matter. However, when the Council adopted Council conclusions, the Minister for Culture and Democracy did not make such a statement. The committee stresses the need for a position enshrined in the EU Council to be fully respected in the Council. If the Government does not act in accordance with the Board's position, the reasons for this shall be clearly stated in the written report. According to the committee, the reporting back to the EU Board on the matter was incomplete. ..................................................... That is where we end, and we expect the relevant Minister to listen to it.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-222	Mr President, I would like to In the review report, the Constitutional Committee has looked at certain issues relating to the government's relationship with Parliament. Among other things, the government's handling of EU issues is concerned, and it is these that I, like some previous speakers, intend to dwell on. EU work is complicated, to say the least. We have three parties – the parliament, the government and the EU – and the interaction between them. Although it is the government that represents Sweden in the EU, it is nevertheless important that the government informs and anchors its actions with the Riksdag. The idea is that the Riksdag, as the main representative of the people, should have influence in the positions that Sweden should have in the EU. This means that the Riksdag must have a real opportunity to influence the direction of politics in advance and not only the right to control what the government has done afterwards. The starting point for this collaboration between Parliament and the Government is that Sweden's interests in the EU are best served. As I said, it is clear that it is the government's responsibility to carry out the EU's work. As has been said several times before here, the information given to the government by the EU Board is not legally binding. But they are politically binding because the government represents Sweden in the EU and acts there with full political responsibility. As some colleagues have said here before and as we have noticed in previous years' reviews and during this review, there are sometimes uncertainties as to what actually applies to the consultations between the EU Board and the Government or the Government and the Riksdag. This applies in particular to discussions held between ministers in informal contexts where, for example, issues might arise on which the Government should have consulted the EU Board. Why did discussions take place during an informal lunch without first addressing the EU Board, has the Government acted in line with the mandate of the EU Board and so on? This makes me understand that, while the division of fundamental responsibilities is clear, the limited written regulation in the form of government and the parliamentary order together with a now quite a long series of opinions from the KU can make it difficult in certain circumstances to know for certain what obligations the government has towards the Riksdag. There is regulation today, and these rules provide some guidance on how the interaction between parliament and government should look on EU issues. For example, the Government must continuously inform and consult the Riksdag on what is happening within the framework of EU work, but also consult the EU Board for meetings and decisions in the European Council. The practice of the KU has developed so that it is not considered sufficient that the government does not do anything contrary to the views of the EU Board but instead acts in accordance with the Board's advice and positions. We should also know that the role and working methods of the EU Board have been developed through practice, the term of office. For example, the interpretation of what is to be consulted on has gradually been broadened to include all the points on a Council agenda today, including those that should only be discussed or informed about. It is of course important to have good cooperation between the parliament and the government and that the consultations work well. I, who are involved in examining these matters in the KU, which is a privilege, and also sit in the EUN, think that they usually do so on the whole, with some few exceptions. Of course, the EU Board wants to get the ministers here for consultation, information and discussion, and, as I see it, the government is anxious that the Swedish positions be anchored in the EU Board before they are presented in the EU. However, in the event that things do not work out as they are supposed to, it is important that we sort out what applies from a constitutional point of view. I think we are doing this well in the Constitutional Committee. Mr President, I would like to Five KU notifications concerning EU cases have been received under this chapter, which the KU has examined. The examination of the five cases has led the KU to point out shortcomings in one of the cases, while in four cases there have been no shortcomings, as the positions expressed by the ministers have been in line with what had been anchored in the EU Board. I don't intend to go in and explain matters to you. On the other hand, I would like to make a brief mention of something of interest when dealing with the case of the Minister for Justice and Migration's consultation with the EU Board on a communication from the Commission. The issue is whether there is a duty to consult on discussions which take place during an informal lunch with ministerial colleagues and do not form part of the Council meeting. The KU has concluded that there is no obligation for the government to consult the EU Board for an informal lunch. Nor is there any requirement for consultation before informal ministerial meetings, where no formal decisions are taken. However, it is important that positions put forward within the EU by the government which, in themselves, are not subject to consultation obligations are nevertheless consistent with what has previously been anchored in the EU Board. Since there was no obligation to consult on this matter and the positions expressed by the Government were within the framework of what had been anchored in the EU Board, we have not been able to find any shortcomings from a constitutional perspective. I am raising this position here because I think it clearly clarifies what applies and gives us guidance for future reviews. I welcome the fact that we members of the KU have examined the cases with objective and impartial eyes and, after mature considerations, have been able to reach agreement on all these EU-related matters, without any reservations, except for a specific opinion. We have, in our joint work in the KU, largely maintained, in my view, the KU's reputation in the role of auditing body, which is important from the point of view of democracy. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I shall also touch on what others have already mentioned. The fact is that these matters are recurring, and last year the Riksdag still had reason to reflect on the state of the acquis and the system in relation to EU-related matters and the interaction between the Riksdag and the Government. For this reason, it was decided in June 2016 that a parliamentary EU committee will investigate Parliament's work on EU issues. I sit with some other members of the KU on that committee. The last time these issues were investigated was ten years ago, and cooperation in the EU has changed significantly during this period. It is therefore important that the issues that have been examined by the KU, as well as other EU-related issues, be reviewed in order to ensure appropriate working arrangements and tools for the future. I look forward to the results of this work.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-239	Mr President, I would like to The KU has examined a notification regarding the Swedish Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist when informing the Riksdag has observed the materiality of the government form. The background to this matter is that the then government in 2010 went to Parliament and requested authorisation for the construction of two submarines. This project has been very complicated during its lifetime. It has been stopped and restarted during the journey. The project has lived under the work of two governments. The committee has examined three parts relating to the acquisition of these submarines. The first thing that has been examined is how the Riksdag has been kept informed. The second part deals with the management of the cost framework established for the Riksdag. The third part concerns the authorisation that existed for the acquisition of the submarines. As regards information to the Riksdag, it can be noted that during the entire project, i.e. for two governments and eight years, the Riksdag was kept informed of its development via budget, committee information and letters. There we find no formal shortcomings. However, we can see that some ambiguities could have been avoided if information had been provided in the past on a number of occasions. The second part, which deals with the cost framework, also gives no reason for any comments from KU. The third part is much more complicated; it is about the authorisation that existed for the submarines. The committee considers that the authorisation that existed from 2010 has been in force throughout the period and therefore there has been no formal error – the government has had an authorisation to rely on it. The committee also notes that the regime that has been in place under many governments means that it is appropriate to go to Parliament and request appropriations for large projects in special order, within the huge defence budget relating to the acquisition of equipment. Otherwise, it means a rather severe restriction of the Riksdag's financial power if the government has an appropriation of 60 to 80 billion and can jump a bit anyway. That doesn't make any sense. It is probably good that JAS projects, submarine projects, helicopters, cannons or whatever it is, which is about a lot of money, are handled in special order. We think this is a good order and therefore find that the government has done nothing wrong in that part. There has been an authorisation throughout this time. However, in order to avoid any confusion in the future, the committee believes that it is good if governments in connection with the handling of such projects clearly tell the Riksdag on what authority it bases itself so that this is clear to the Riksdag – out of concern for the Riksdag's financial power.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-247	Mr President, I would like to I was thinking in the second chapter of the report of two inquiries that we have had occasion to look at. One relates to what my colleague, Mr Ekström, has mentioned, namely the Minister for Defence and the management of the A26 submarine acquisition project, the future submarine weapon, and the other concerns investigation case 6, the handling of the Security Council campaign by Foreign Minister Wallström. To get a little distance between our various speeches, I think I will start with the Security Council campaign. Otherwise, there may be a risk of some repetition. Mr President, I would like to Already in 2004, the then government announced its interest in Sweden running for a non-permanent position in the UN Security Council. This is obviously an attractive place; it is a small and important group in the UN organisation. Subsequent governments, both the former alliance government and the current S- and MP government, have tried in various ways to promote Sweden's name as a candidate. It began, under the current government, to expect Sweden to have a good chance when there were some changes regarding support for Sweden's candidacy within the various groupings in the candidate work. Sweden's campaign would be conducted with transparency, a low campaign budget and without so-called change of vote, i.e. promising different favors against winning the votes of Member States. In April 2016, Mr President, there were a series of articles in Dagens Nyheter about what was presented as ambiguities regarding what money was spent in the campaign. In view of this, a report was received against the Minister for Foreign Affairs from Daniel Bäckström and Ola Johansson from the Center Party. We've been dealing with it ever since. A campaign of this kind is very complicated. It has also emerged from the extensive review carried out by the KU in this case that, if one were to try to sort out all these parts of the campaign work and what is used and what is not used – Herrjesus, what work it would be. But what is important and on which this notification is based is whether the commitment that it has been an open accounting financially, that no change of vote has taken place and that the campaign budget would then be low is correct. This is what we've been looking at. In particular, a number of conferences during August 2015 and March 2016 were in focus. The government, in cooperation with the Dag Hammarskjöld Foundation, invited a number of UN ambassadors from so-called less well-off, or poorer, countries. The conferences would be about climate action, conflict prevention and resilience, and the question has been what funds were used for this. Mr President, I would like to There are a number of rules on what can be deducted from the aid budget in various promotion work and also in relation to various aid work in these countries. There is a list of countries that can be counted there. Throughout the handling we have had of this in the KU, this list of countries that participated in the two conferences has been handled with a confidentiality mark. This information became open information at the hearing of the Prime Minister, and how we handle this has come to be a side-process. I'm not bringing that up here today, because it's on-going. However, this issue is also the subject of a review by the Parliamentary Ombudsmen. DN requested a number of documents related to this security work, and there was a delay. We in the committee are also criticising the Ministry for Foreign Affairs about shortcomings in how this has been dealt with. I'll get back to that. The Parliamentary Ombudsmen therefore have an examination in parallel with this, as does the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which is now looking at whether this campaign has lived up to objectives and means. As a result, we in the KU, which are effective and do not want to work in parallel, have focused on whether the rules on the economy have been followed. Based on what we have found, the government has complied with all the rules regarding aid work. However, I would like to make a personal reflection on this. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs should work to make this clear. For a layman outside the corridors of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, this is extremely complex, and we also want transparency in internal governance. So it is a personal contribution to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs that, in the light of what has happened, one should look at this. On the other hand, we in the committee have found that there has been a delay in registration, a so-called backlog, and it is totally unacceptable as far as public documents are concerned. It is a criticism that has also previously been levelled at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs in terms of precisely organisational readiness for the disclosure of public documents. This problem remains, therefore, and a unanimous committee points out that this shortcoming exists in the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. Mr President, I would like to The second examination I would like to dwell on is the handling by the Minister for Defence and the Government during its time in power of the so-called submarine procurement of the A26. The review report is submitted by Allan Widman, Chairman of the Defence Committee. What is at issue here are a few different parts, essentially two parts. One is whether the whole of this project has been kept within the cost framework to date, as the committee has found the government to have done. The second part is whether the Minister for Defence has provided factual, accurate and relevant information on the matter to the Committee on Defence. There are differences of opinion between the complainant and the Secretary of Defense. This acquisition of defence equipment, Mr President, is a little different from the acquisition of anything at all. It's something that goes on for a long time, and it's also about pretty expensive gadgets. When it comes to purchases as large as whole systems, submarine systems or combat aircraft systems, what the committee stresses is a good order of government to seek broad support in parliament for these large investments, because they will extend across many different governments. It is a good order that we have in the Swedish Parliament on defence issues as a whole to try to agree over time and in general. It emerged during a meeting of the Defence Committee information from the Swedish Armed Forces, which caused the Chairman to bounce to among other things. Some of this is classified, but it had some export management and conditions to do that, according to the notifier, would have a significant impact on the cost framework set for this project. During the examination and the hearings that we have had, we have not been able to demonstrate different circumstances. It's a little hard to lead this in evidence. There are no stenographic records from these committee meetings, but in the part relating to the information, the committee unanimously underlines that it is, as Mr Ekström said earlier, interpretations of the various effects of the export conditions but that it could certainly have been foreseen by the Minister for Defence that this information would be given at a much earlier time. Then one could have avoided the situation that arose. Mr President, I would like to The review also revealed a question of authorisation. As I said earlier, it is good order for the government to seek authorisation for a major investment in the Riksdag. It's a year. The question of b authorization was raised by the former government in the spring 2010 amending budget and was presented as closed in March 2011 in the so-called letter 75, i.e. the authorisation itself. Since then, a lot of things have happened. It turned out that it could not proceed in 2014 with the then owner of Kockumvarvet, Thyssen Krupp, and thus the acquisition decision was cancelled. This was done in the spring 2014 amending budget. The question then arose: Did the government need to seek a new authorisation for its continued management of the project? Here comes the question of whether to consider the armaments process as different or at least with a little different eyes than other purchases. We reasoned, which I think is quite reasonable because I have been working on these issues for many years, that it is a long process. First it is a procurement phase and then we have a construction phase, a production phase and a construction phase. This is going on for many years, and we might have been in goal a lot earlier if this property relationship had not happened. You just had to take a different approach. However, the decisions, the authorisation, are still valid even though to some extent it is suspended even though the process is under way. Thus, in March 2015, the government was able to decide on production and construction. In any case, it is important that they come out of the yard, down under the water and carry out their important reconnaissance tasks. Mr President, I would like to The committee therefore concludes that the government, in the form of the Minister for Defence, should have provided some information at an earlier stage. In its report to the Riksdag, the Government will clearly indicate where it is in the process and what authorisation forms the basis for these particular armaments investments of greater strategic importance.
i-KZrv6j2QnsbNtWZaQgpSsi	Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee has examined six notifications aimed at dealing with government matters. The notifications have focused on the government's processing times, conflict rules, registration, information to the Riksdag, disclosure of public documents and processing of letters received. We are well aware of the content of at least two of these cases. The Constitutional Committee has, on several previous occasions, examined and criticised – or pointed out shortcomings as it is now called – against the processing time of appeals at the Ministry of the Environment. This was done in the autumn reviews 2013, 2014 and 2016. And this is also done in the spring review 2017. At the last review, in autumn 2016, the committee stated the importance of the Ministry having a good staff situation and that the organisation is efficient and efficient. For the individual, this is of central importance. It is not reasonable for it to take over a year – in the present case 16 months – to deal with a case. The committee believes that it is a responsibility of the Head of Department – and ultimately of the Government Office – to ensure that there are sufficient resources to meet increased needs. On another matter where Sweden's campaign for a seat on the UN Security Council has tanged with scrutiny, the committee has pointed out that there have been shortcomings in registration. This is not the first time that the Government Office is failing in this regard. The proper registration of documents is a prerequisite for ensuring public access to public documents. It is a fundamental principle of Swedish administration that ensures public debate, transparency and scrutiny of authorities. It is not good when such deficiencies occur. The committee has also examined a matter concerning the recruitment of a State Secretary at the Ministry of Education. The notification takes as a starting point a proposal from the government to abolish the current system of review of the quality of education at universities and higher education institutions. Today, it is the University Chancellor's Office that carries out the review. But it will now be replaced by self-evaluation at each higher education institution. The Government's letter was submitted in December 2015. In January 2016, the Vice-Chancellor of Mälardalen University was appointed as Secretary of State to the Minister for Higher Education. At the same time, a legal process was under way; an American student had sued Mälardalen University and asked for a refund of tuition fees, since she considered the teaching to be directly substandard. Mälardalen University was also below the national average in the quality evaluations carried out at the time by the University Chancellor's Office. The matter itself suggests some conflict of interest. The Secretary of State has thus been the vice-chancellor of a university that has been severely criticised in national quality evaluations, a system that the government then proposed would be abolished, only the month before the Secretary of State was employed at the Ministry of Education. The University has also been involved in writing referrals to the investigation during the time the Secretary of State was employed as Vice-Chancellor at the HEI. The Secretary of State is then the person, next to the Minister, responsible for the implementation of the decommissioning of the quality evaluation system. At the same time, Mälardalen University has occurred in a court case concerning quality assurance. Moreover, the case has not yet been finalised. This means that there is still a legal process going on against the university where the Secretary of State, who is now next responsible for evaluating the new system, was the Vice-Chancellor when the case was brought up to date. The Swedish Democrats strongly question the suitability of a person who has been the vice-chancellor of a higher education institution, who has been criticised within the framework of a particular system, to participate in the Government and Government Office's work to change this system. We believe that the examination itself has not clarified all the facts about the question marks mentioned. For this reason, we have not been able to fully assess the matter. We have then chosen to make a specific opinion. We realise that the question marks that have not been investigated have not given us sufficient grounds for reservations on the matter.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-277	Mr President, I would like to We have moved on to Chapter 2 of the review report, in which we highlight six different dossiers in particular. The title of the chapter is that of the administration of certain government matters, etc. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Here, too, I am going to focus on a case, namely: It is probably one of the dossiers in the review report where we have expressed our strongest views on shortcomings. One of the common problems, now that more has been built in society, is long processing times in municipalities, at Lantmäteriet, at the County Administrative Board, at the Environmental Court and at the Government Office. Long processing times are frustrating and run the risk of delaying construction projects. Often, the investigating authority – we have seen this kind of criticism also from JO – explains that it has been difficult to recruit competent staff and that in some cases it can be difficult to predict the complexity. The case under review, which is now in question, concerned exceptions to the beach protection rules. The legislative changes already made in 2009 and the subsequent review assignments to the County Administrative Board resulted in a significant increase in the number of complaints against the beach protection sector in the years 2014 to 2015. In other words, it could perhaps have been predicted to a greater extent. We write in our report this way: and if it turns out that the need for resources is greater than expected, measures to meet this need must be taken urgently. It is up to the Head of the Department and, ultimately, the Head of the Government Office to deal with this. In the present case, this applies to both the present and the former government. ..................................................... In the appeal case examined, it went over a year and four months, 16 months, from the time the case came to the Government Office to the request for additions. Such a time is not acceptable. As I said, this is something that investigative authorities lift up in several different directions. It really needs to be addressed everywhere.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-284	Mr President, I would like to I would like to comment on a few matters. I mentioned one at the outset. This is an appeal against beach protection cases. The shortcomings in processing times have led to a statement of shortcomings – perhaps we can put it that way – in the case of both the Minister for the Environment and the Prime Minister. We want to ensure that the government has a plan that leads to faster decisions. As far as the management of the Security Council campaign is concerned, we are pointing out shortcomings in the holding of records within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These shortcomings led to the media speculating on how the funding had been done. They also led to problems in the confidentiality management of the issues. This is, of course, serious because it was an important issue which, due to the lack of record keeping, led to some misconception of speculation in the media. They led to this KU notification against the campaign because it was not possible to obtain information on the funding. This, of course, was not good. As regards the handling of the acquisition of submarines, this has been commented in detail by Hans Ekström and Annicka Engblom. There is really not much more to say than that it is important that there are clear authorisations so that the decision-making procedures are clearer than they have been during the administration and the Ministry of Defence's handling of this issue. One matter that has not led to any mention of shortcomings is the handling of the request to receive an analysis within the Ministry of Finance. The report was submitted by a member of the Tax Committee who, in connection with a debate, was informed by the Minister for Finance that analyses had been carried out within the Ministry of Finance which indicated a certain direction. However, the member of the Tax Committee could not get the analysis when she asked to get it out. This in itself does not lead to any criticism, but I can understand the views of the notifier. It is difficult to take part in a debate when the analyses that have been carried out at the Ministry of Finance and which are invoked in this case by the Minister for Finance are not available.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-290	Mr President, I would like to The advantage of being far down the list of speakers is that you know what the others have said. The disadvantage is that most of it is also said. During this section, the committee has to deal with issues relating to long processing times in the preparation of an appeal in a beach protection case, the handling of Sweden's campaign before the UN Security Council, the handling of received letters, the government's handling of recruitment of a former Vice-Chancellor of Mälardalen University and a decision on the acquisition of submarines – high and low, wide and wide. Two of the notifications lead to statements of shortcomings in handling. It concerns the notification and appeal of a beach protection case and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' handling of the campaign before the UN Security Council. Both cases are criticised for lack of procedures for registration, documentation and long processing times. That work peaks and staff turnover can cause problems to catch up with, we are all well aware of, regardless of which side of the water you are sitting on. However, from the point of view of citizens, it is essential that clear and reliable procedures are in place to ensure that citizens' matters are handled properly and promptly, and that they are done according to established procedures and with transparency. Much has already been said, but I would nevertheless like – despite Mr Ekström's and Mrs Annicka's report on case G7 on the handling of the decision to procure submarines by Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist – to mention a few words. There are several points in the process that are being examined. It should be noted that although the KU does not find any formal grounds for uttering purely criticism, the committee nevertheless notes that doubts had been raised as to whether the Minister for Defence had provided some information at an earlier stage than was done. It is a statement that clearly shows that it is a matter of assessment, when and what information is to be provided by government to a relevant committee. In this case, in such a large and important matter for Sweden, it would have been better if the Government had made a different assessment than the one he now made. The KU therefore makes no mention of a shortcoming in this, but it is my hope that the notification and the process that has led us to stand here today will nevertheless serve as a reminder of the importance that it is sometimes better to think again before making your decision.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-298	Mr President, I would like to We are on our way towards the end of Chapter 2, and dealing with certain government matters, etc. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We are talking, among other things, about what we call the G7, review case 7, which concerns submarines. Most of it can't be said because it's classified. I shall then choose to read from our report in order to underline what we agree on. Regarding sub-ordering, we say that it is important that information is clear, complete and up-to-date: ..................................................... I do not comment on this further. I only note that if this had been achieved, we would not have had this matter. When it comes to material acquisition of type a submarine, we write that it is an appropriate order that material acquisition of greater and more strategic importance is subject to the risk day's review. The committee would nevertheless like to stress the importance of the government clearly indicating which procurement authority is the basis when it reports various measures within a major material procurement project in the field of defence for the Riksdag and that the government regularly informs the Riksdag about how such a project is developing and what direction the project will take within the framework of the authorisation. ..................................................... We expect the Secretary of Defense to follow this. G6, review case 6, concerns the Security Council fight. We can see that Foreign Minister Wallström broke down in the register. It was particularly problematic during a hearing held by the committee. There, the Minister for Foreign Affairs was unable to answer who had financed a particular day, whether it was aid funds, the Dag Hammarskjöld Fund or whether it was the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. It wasn't clear there. We had received written material in which this was clearly stated. But we write that a number of clarifications have been made by the government. We'll settle for that. It is KU language which means that some clarification was needed.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-304	Mr President, I would like to In this review report, I intended to say something brief about the matter of handling the request for access to an analysis within the Ministry of Finance. In this case, in the context of an open hearing relating to new international tax rules, the Minister of Finance had referred to the fact that the Government had carried out its own analysis of the consequences for Sweden of a new directive on tax evasion. The notifier in this case requested on two different occasions to obtain the analysis from the Ministry of Finance. The statement was that the document constituted internal work material and therefore could not be disclosed. Then we in the KU have looked at this more closely to see whether it is a public document or not and whether the Ministry acted correctly or not. The KU has done a deep dive in this part. The Office has also made significant efforts to produce relevant legislation and other things that can guide our assessment. The KU has explained that the provisions relating to the disclosure of public documents and what should be seen as a public document are laid down in the Freedom of the Press Regulation, where the principle of public access is also partly expressed. It says that every Swedish and foreign citizen has the right to access public documents on the basis of the Constitution. A document is general if it is kept by an authority and if it is received or drawn up by that authority. In this context, the provision of Chapter 2 is applicable. Section 7 of the Freedom of the Press Regulation of interest. It says that a document is considered to have been drawn up by an authority once it has been processed. A document which has not been processed shall be deemed to have been drawn up only when a case to which it relates has been closed with the Authority or if the document does not relate to a particular case when it has been adjusted by the Authority or otherwise completed. We write here that the idea behind the drafting of these rules is that an authority should have a reasonable space to form its own opinion and take a position before it has to make the documents available to the public. Until such time as an act is completed or drawn up, it is thus to be regarded as the work material of an authority. We have this to counter to the circumstances of this case. Furthermore, the KU has written something about memory notes. It has been said that, even after the time when it is considered to be established, a note of memory that has been made by an authority and has not been processed shall not be regarded as a public document by the authorities unless it is taken care of for archiving purposes. There are a great many other points that have been made in this part of the report, Mr President. I want to do justice to this matter. That is why I brought this up, after the hard work that has been done. As a result, I come to the conclusion: In the current review, the administrator at the Ministry of Finance has made the assessment that the document was an internal work material and that there was no public document to be disclosed. In the light of the legal investigation we have carried out on the matter, we cannot find any reason to question that assessment. That is what I was going to say on this particular matter, but of course I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Members and the Registry for a good job of scrutiny. The work of both Members and office staff has been hard, but now that we have reached the debate on the review report, it has demonstrated the fairness we give to the KU's reputation. As this is my last debate before the summer break, I would also like to wish Mr President and everyone else a really nice summer.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-316	Mr President, I would like to I, too, intend to dwell briefly on the beach protection issue, because I think that the matter very much reflects how individuals can get caught when there are not enough staff. It can be difficult to recruit staff. At the environmental testing unit it has been a bit messy. The unit was shut down by the Alliance in 2011. Then it reopened in 2013. It is clear that staffing skills will be difficult. Since the cases are so complex, it is important to hire the right staff. There's a difficulty there. I'm going to read a little piece of the material we've been working on. However, it is the individual who is most affected by the delay in handling the case. Uncertainty having to wait for a long time for an authority decision that may relate to matters that are crucial to a person's financial or personal circumstances can cause insecurity and personal suffering, perhaps even financial losses. This is not a purely service issue, but also a question of the rule of law of the individual. ..................................................... We in the KU have had a lot of errands under lup. Quite a few times you can apply the very fact that the individual person gets caught. That must not be the case. I, too, would like to thank our fantastic office. You are worthy of all the applause that exists throughout the world.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-321	Mr President, I would like to Here in Sweden, citizens should be able to count on both legal certainty and effective handling of the cases they have in contact with public Sweden, such as courts and authorities. According to the Administrative Act, each case in which an individual is a party must be dealt with as easily, quickly and cheaply as possible without having to comply with the security. According to the Constitutional Committee, fast-track administration is a central issue both for individuals, individuals involved, and for authorities. However, it is important to remember, as has already been said here, that it is the individual who is most affected if the case-handling process is delayed. Uncertainty to go and wait for an authority decision, which may be crucial to the economic and personal situation, can lead to insecurity and great suffering. It is basically a matter of the individual's situation. It is therefore essential to prevent, prevent and stop long processing times. In this connection, I would like to talk about the review carried out by the KU in relation to beach protection matters. Mr President, I would like to New beach protection rules were introduced in 2009. In connection with the entry into force of the legislative amendments, the county administrative boards of the then government were tasked with reviewing and making decisions on extended coastal protection areas in their own county. It was to be implemented in the period until 31 December 2014. According to KU's review, it has appeared that it was expected in the Ministry that the review would lead to an increased and very extensive case management. This proved to be the case too. Only from October 2014 to February 2015, i.e. for five months at the end of and shortly after the review deadline, 108 appeals were lodged on this issue. This can be compared to a normal year of twelve months which is normally used in about 100 cases to the unit. According to our review, the Government did not take sufficient measures to prevent these expected long-term problems from the entry into force of the new rules in 2009 to the end date of the reviews in 2014. The measures taken were not sufficient during either the time of the Reinfeldt Government in power during the period – more than five years 2009–2014 – or during the period of the Lövven Government in the period of the last three months of 2014, October to December. Mr President, I would like to The previous government's decision to review extended coastal protection areas contributed to a very large increase in the number of cases received. As someone has just mentioned, the decision was also followed by a major organisational change at the Ministry of the Environment. It led to the winding-up of the special unit dealing with administrative cases. It will a couple of years later, 2013, have been re-established. The closure of the responsible unit and a critical reorganisation in the responsible department meant that important tasks were transferred around. This does not seem to have encouraged the administration of the Government Office. Mr President, I would like to KU has repeatedly examined appeals at the Ministry of the Environment, including in autumn 2013. At that time, too, it was found that in a number of cases the processing times were long. In about half of the cases, the duration of proceedings was between one and a half years and more than two years. The latest review carried out by the KU has revealed that the unit working on this has been gradually strengthened. It has also emerged that the complexity of the cases has been difficult to predict. Due to the 2009 amendment and the subsequent review mandate, the cases increased sharply at the turn of the year 2014/ 15. In addition, there have been a large number of requests for suspension and interim forms of order, which must be given priority. It is important to stress the importance of proper analysis of resource needs when legislative changes are made and when reviews are decided that are deemed to increase case flow, as in this case. This must be done in order to prepare as far as possible to deal with all cases and to keep the processing times down. If it then turns out that the need for resources is greater than expected, measures to meet this need must be taken urgently. It is good that the government takes this very seriously, and it is good that reinforcements have been carried out at the Ministry of Environment and Energy to address the problem. In addition, it is gratifying that the processing times have decreased as a result of this, although much work remains to be done to reduce the waiting time further. Mr President, I would like to It can be repeated: Every case where an individual is a party should be dealt with as easily, quickly and cheaply as possible without the security being succeeded.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-333	Mr President, I would like to When I was preparing my speech last night, I had written a very long text which contained a thorough account with a lot of things and a lot of things and a lot of things. I am sure that this speech had prompted the President, after the speech was closed, to say kindly but firmly that I had exceeded the speaking time by 40, 50 or 60 %. I was thinking about the conclusion of what I was going to say. At times it may be good to do so, and perhaps not just me in this congregation. What I concluded was that in this case, concerning the sale of lignite by Vattenfall in Germany and the statements by two ministers on whether or not the government had been prevented from stopping that sale, I would say the following: the government was not prevented from preventing the sale of lignite. The Heads of State have therefore made a mistake. But I think everyone understands that their statements were made in a political context where the theme of the debate was, let coal lie. The answer to this was not as clear. I believe that people must then realise that a formal error is committed, but that the political context may explain the statements. I hope I do not get barking now, Mr President.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-336	Mr President, I would like to My notes are with me, so you will have to listen to me for a little longer than at Hans Ekström. I hope it's okay. During last year's debate, I thanked the committee and the cabinet for their hard work and good cooperation and wished for a pleasant summer. I would like to start by saying this again today, because this is probably my last debate for the summer. In the chapter, some questions about the government's responsibility for the administration and state-owned companies are dealt with four reviews – some more interesting, some a little less. The reviews concern directives to the Finnish Transport Agency for the national transport infrastructure plan 2018–2029, the Ministry of Culture and Democracy's handling of issues concerning a national coordinator, the sale of Vattenfall's lignite operations, which we have been dealing with quite a lot at the beginning, and the exercise of ownership in Nordea regarding ethics in customer operations. Mr President, I would like to The review of directives to the Finnish Transport Administration for the national transport infrastructure plan 2018 – 2029 does not give cause for any statement by the committee, and I therefore do not take it any further in my speech. Mr President, I would like to During the time that Mona Sahlin was a national coordinator against violent extremism, her former bodyguard was employed as an employee in the coordinator's secretariat. The committee takes note of the special circumstances that have occurred during the examination, but does not examine the suitability of the appointment in the individual case. In the review of the Minister for Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke's handling of questions concerning a national coordinator, the committee notes that the Council of State took the decision on the appointment of the relevant official of the coordinator and that the decision also included conditions of employment. The decision was prepared in accordance with the Swedish Ministry of Culture's procedures and was based, among other things, on the coordinator's assessment. The committee points out that the Government is ultimately responsible for setting up the post in question on objective and objective grounds and for not taking into account irrelevant circumstances. The Government's statements in Expressen could be interpreted as meaning that the employment decision had been taken by the coordinator, which was not the case. The statement, which was made in an interview in which the Minister for Culture and Democracy would provide factual information and comment on the handling of the current employment case, was thus incorrect. The committee stresses the importance of the accuracy of statements made by ministers. In addition, the review has shown that the coordinator has not provided an annual report to the Government Office, as required by the Committee Regulation. There is no exception to the requirement to provide such a work report in the Regulation. The Government has pointed out that the Government Office has received information about the work of the investigation in other ways. However, in the light, in particular, of the shortcomings in registration and in the activities of the national coordinator, the committee considers it necessary to stress the importance of the Ministry keeping sufficiently informed of the situation in the committees in order to take action if necessary. Mr President, I would like to Regarding the sale of Vattenfall's lignite business, the report will take a little longer from my side. This has already been up and called a kiosk roller. I thought I'd dwell especially on this. Last April, Vattenfall's board of directors proposed that the company sell its German lignite business. This question is interesting in many different ways, but according to Chapter 13. Paragraph 1, first paragraph, of the form of government, the Constitutional Committee shall review the performance of the duties of the Ministers of State and the administration of government matters. The committee does not therefore examine the sale of lignite by Vattenfall itself, nor the commercial nature of the sale. The Swedish Parliament has decided that the state's mission for Vattenfall is to generate a market return by conducting energy activities in a commercial manner, so that the company – this has not been emphasised as much – belongs to the companies that lead the development towards environmentally sustainable energy production. Like all other limited liability companies, state-owned limited liability companies are governed by the Companies Act. As a representative of State ownership, the government is subject to the same rules as other company owners. As regards Vattenfall, according to the Company's Rules of Procedure, the Board shall coordinate its view through the Chairman of the Board with representatives of the owner on issues where the Company faces particularly important decisions. The government took a position on the proposal in such ownership coordination. The investigation shows that the Government would only take a position on the proposal from Vattenfall's Board of Directors that the company should divest lignite business, nothing else. Minister Isabella Lövin, Åsa Romson and Mikael Damberg argued that the government was not able to say no to Vattenfall's proposal to sell the German lignite business without first changing Vattenfall's assignment, i.e. the subject matter of the articles of association. When Minister Mikael Damberg then came to the committee during the examination, he stated in statements that the issue was to say yes or no to the transaction decided by Vattenfall's board of directors. In order to decide in the next step whether the answer would be yes or no, an analysis was made to see whether the divestment of lignite business was compatible with the parliamentary mandate for the company, i.e. the subject matter of the articles of association, as well as the requirements of the Budget Act on commercialism and the State's ownership policy. The review has shown that it was possible to reject the sale without changing this assignment for Vattenfall. The committee stresses the importance of the government's statements being based on accurate data. At the time there was also an environmental discussion, as Agneta Börjesson, for example, was about, where the question was whether to say no to a sale and instead leave the lignite in the ground. However, this aspect was not relevant when the government discussed the matter with Vattenfall's board. Mr President, I would like to The committee has also examined the previous government's exercise of ownership in Nordea regarding ethics in customer operations. The state's ownership policy stated that all companies had a great responsibility in issues of sustainable development and social responsibility, such as ethics, the environment, human rights, equality and diversity, but that state-owned companies would be exemplary and expected to be at the forefront of their work on these issues. The review has revealed that, during the period under review, the Government intended to promote that the State's ownership policy would also apply to part-owned state-owned companies, such as Nordea. However, it is not clear to what extent the Government was working to ensure that Nordea would apply the State's ownership policy and if the Government thus lived up to its commitments to the Riksdag, as documentation that can demonstrate it has not been found at the Government Office. The committee believes that the government should have documented the way in which it consulted with the other owners and worked for the ownership policy to be applied by Nordea.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-353	Mr President, I would like to I am already getting the flag and warning that there is a risk that there will be some repetitions during the debate because we all seem to be eager to talk about the same things. This can easily be the case in the KU's review of cases that are of particular interest. As you know, the KU has a very long history. We were founded in 1809. What not so many people know is that in 1909, that is, 100 years after KU's creation, the Royal Trollhätte Canal and Waterworks formed something that was named the Royal Waterfalls Board. Today we feel like Vattenfall AB. It is one of Europe's largest energy companies. From having conducted virgin activities in Göta River and Lule River, the company today, for good and bad, has to be said, a broad portfolio of operations in several countries, and they extract energy from both coal and nuclear fuel and, of course, also hydropower. As far as coal is concerned, this is something for which not everyone is entirely positive for a number of reasons. It was an issue that was already given great importance in the electoral movement. Few are likely to find it particularly appropriate for the state-owned company Vattenfall to be involved in one of Europe's most controversial power productions, in particular the German lignite. There are different ways to deal with this fact and many issues to debate. However, the debate on the KU's review report today is not the right forum for that. It is not the right forum for the purely political debate. What we are going to talk about now is what has been said on the matter when it has previously been up to date, namely the misinformations of Minister Mikael Damberg and Isabella Lövin. I am talking about their misinformation to both the Riksdag and the Swedish people. Because it was the case that the one who held the highest pitch around lignite was the Green Party's one spokesperson Gustav Fridolin, who went country and country around with a piece of coal in one hand and promised to phase out Vattenfall's lignite operations in Germany. But as you know, it didn't happen. Instead, the business was sold to a Czech company. This became difficult, of course, and especially for a party that tries to profile itself as Parliament's greenest party, which thinks most about the environment and which has promised that no sales will take place. To the general public, there is now an imminent risk that the whole brown coal affair appears to have concocted together a clever plan that was to hide behind the Riksdag and Mikael Damberg, who was not as high-profile in the matter and would then take the blow if anyone knew owls in the bog. In an interview with TV4 on 21 May, Minister Damberg said: The Riksdag has decided that this should be a business company. This means that the Board cannot make decisions that are non-commercial, nor can the Government act in violation of the Riksdag's decisions. Isabella Lövin also took the opportunity to defend the decision. To Today's industry, she says on 11 May 2016:"I understand that in order to stop this business you have to change the ownership directives to Vattenfall. If we are to be able to amend that directive, we need a majority in the Swedish Parliament. ..................................................... In the so-called ownership coordination, the government would take a position on the proposals from Vattenfall's board of directors that the company should divest lignite business. The question then was whether the government could say: Yes– we can sell, or No– we can't sell. The review by the Constitutional Committee shows that it was possible to say no to the sale without changing the mandate for Vattenfall, as several Members have already stated. Both ministers have thus provided incorrect information. It has also emerged that, in view of the decision on lignite sales, there was also an environmental discussion in which the question was whether to say no to a sale and instead leave lignite in the ground. However, this aspect was not relevant when the government discussed the matter with Vattenfall's board. In reality, this has little or no bearing on the committee's position. The political significance of our scrutiny can, of course, be much greater. Has the Green Party actually contributed to the fact that the German lignite has moved from Swedish ownership to Czech? That question is probably a lot of voters today. The committee would like to stress the importance of the Council's statements being based on accurate information. Mr President, I would like to Another matter I would like to raise concerns the handling of issues concerning a national coordinator by the Minister for Culture and Democracy. The issue is about statements made by Alice Bah Kuhnke in connection with the scandals that were brought to the attention of the then national coordinator against violent extremism, Mona Sahlin, and her actions. The Government made statements that could be interpreted as not being personally employed by the official in the media as the bodyguard. However, the committee has noted that this statement by the Government was wrong and that the employment was formally made by the Government on the recommendation of Mona Sahlin. The committee has also noted that the salary level of the official in question was exceptionally high. It was well above the level of former employees at similar positions. Whether this salary level has been correct or not is not something we in the KU have taken a position on, but rather a question for others to ask Alice Bah Kuhnke. In addition to these shortcomings, it has also emerged that the coordinator did not submit an annual report of the work of the National Coordinator to the Government Office. The Minister for Culture and Democracy has argued that the Government Office has indeed received information, but that it has only been done in a slightly different way. However, it is not satisfactory, and the committee would therefore like to stress the importance of the Government Office keeping sufficiently informed of the situation in the committees in order to take action if necessary. Had the Government Office been more careful to keep an eye on the former National Coordinator and her activities, perhaps several of these problems would never have had to arise from the outset. Mr President, I would like to Violent extremism, notwithstanding its form, is too important a matter of destiny to be dealt with by other than real experts, with real knowledge. That the previous government chose to appoint Mona Sahlin as our national coordinator was probably so bad, not least in light of what has now been revealed. Now replacing her with a Christmas must expert is not just irresponsible. It's actually directly provocative. The shortcomings that the committee has now identified are, of course, purely formal. In its review, the Constitutional Committee does not evaluate who the government is employing, or what kind of professional background it has. That is a question for others to ask, and that is a question the government has to answer. However, as a Member of the Swedish Parliament, I will continue to ask that question. As a member of the KU, I stand up for what the committee says, namely that we emphasise the importance of the government's statements being correct.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-381	Mr President, I would like to Then we are on chapter 3 of this year's review report, and there are some questions about the government's responsibility for administration and state companies. We are dealing in particular with four dossiers, and I have already touched on the issue of Vattenfall in my opening speech. I wasn't planning on bringing it up any more. I cannot, however, refrain from saying that we are not actually looking at the environmental party's election movement and electoral promises here. Nevertheless, I feel I need to correct what was said earlier in the debate about our election promises and what was expressed. The coal piece was about not opening new mines that were possibly in the pipeline to open. This election promise was delivered directly during the autumn of the first year in the government. It was also about 100% renewable. There we now have a broad agreement in Parliament to deliver on this. I would instead like to talk about the handling of the national coordinator by Minister for Culture Alice Bah Kuhnke, who was then Mrs Sahlin. Mona Sahlin had been hired by the previous government to lead and initiate the broad work against violent extremism. The KU, like the Swedish National Audit Office, has previously looked at how the number of national coordinators has increased over the years. Over the years, they have also received different roles and names. Some are more negotiators, others are investigators and some are, like the national coordinator, pushers, starters and to some extent investigators. Like the national coordinator against violent extremism, most of them are their own authorities and investigations. But there are also other coordinators, who are employed directly at the department. The national coordinator against violent extremism has handled the preventive work of building a knowledge base and tools that can be used in schools, workplaces and associations. The coordinator has gradually received more and more tasks and also more resources to hire more staff. In other words, it has been considered by both governments that the prevention of extremism is extremely important. Local work has started gradually in the various municipalities, and most municipalities have ongoing work on action plans. Until the end of the year, the idea is that the business should be organised into a permanent authority. That's good. The report describes a statement made by the Minister of Culture in Expressen, where it can be interpreted as meaning that she has not been responsible for her employment. We have also examined a statement in Dagens Nyheter stating that the Minister has such a responsibility. We have heard the Minister, who says that she has tried to state as clearly as she can only that she has had this responsibility all along but that it has simply gone wrong here. She takes full responsibility for this. The committee notes in the report that the decision on employment was taken by the Minister for Culture and Democracy. The decision was prepared in accordance with the procedures of the Ministry of Culture and was based, inter alia, on the national coordinator's assessment that the person concerned was suitable for carrying out the relevant tasks.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-388	Mr President, I would like to In this section, we have two matters concerning ministers who have spoken in a way that the Constitutional Committee has not found correct. There are two cases, but four ministers who are reprimanded, so let's say – by the KU for lack of objectivity. One is the statement by the Minister for Culture and Democracy regarding the appointment of a former bodyguard to the coordinator against extremism. The Minister for Culture and Democracy does not admit in a media interview that she had made the decision on the employment. If the Minister had forgotten or did not want to admit that she had made the decision, we do not know, but the statement was at least incorrect and criticised by the KU for lack of objectivity. The second concerns Vattenfall's lignite business. We have discussed that it was possible to say no, and it is fully investigated by the KU. We agree that it would have been possible to give a different message to the three ministers. This means that, in this case too, there is a lack of objectiveness on the part of the Constitutional Committee.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-391	Mr President, I would like to Under this heading we have two delicate dossiers which the committee has devoted a great deal of time and concern to. This concerns the Minister for Culture and Democracy's handling of issues surrounding a national coordinator and the sale of Vattenfall's lignite business. These are really issues where it is important to keep the focus on what it is the KU is set to review and to sort between what is facts and what is evening press journalism– which should not be despised but which must definitely not be taken for the whole truth. In addition, the KU will sort out who has said and done what and when. The background to both dossiers has been well explained by my colleagues, so what I shall refrain from repeating. However, I cannot help commenting briefly on these two unfortunate cases, which are also included on the KU's blacklist. As far as the Minister for Culture and Democracy's handling of issues surrounding a national coordinator is concerned, one can easily say that it has been a rare mess. However, the KU notes that it was Alice Bah Kuhnke who took the decision to appoint the official of the National Coordinator and that the statements of the Minister for Culture and Democracy in a newspaper interview could be interpreted as having been taken by the coordinator, which was not the case. This leads the committee to reiterate the importance of the Council's statements being correct. The KU review also shows that the coordinator has not provided an annual report of the work of the National Coordinator to the Government Office. The Minister for Culture and Democracy has pointed out that the Government Office has received information about the Committee's work in other ways. The committee would nevertheless stress the importance of keeping the Government Office sufficiently informed of the situation in the committees in order to be able to take action if necessary. As I said, there is much to consider around the national coordinator. This applies to clear assignments and responsibilities as well as how procedures have been followed. However, I believe that the KU has thereby completed its part of the investigation on the basis of the notification received. As regards the sale of Vattenfall's German lignite business and the question as to whether it was possible for the government to say no to the sale proposed by Vattenfall's board of directors, the KU's hearing clearly showed the following: Believed guidelines and ownership policies on commercial requirements, efficiency and returns, and on the other hand the balance between this and the environmental perspective, the responsible ministers' statement was that the government had no opportunity to say no without first changing Vattenfall's mandate was not correct. In KU languages, we formulate it as emphasising the importance of government statements based on accurate data – once again. In pure Swedish, I would say that, as a Member of Parliament and a citizen, I am very angry when the ministers concerned speak in a way that, at best, can be taken for ignorance and, at worst, as a way of turning public opinion in the direction that one would prefer on the basis of one's own ideological conviction.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-399	Mr President, I would like to I would like, as previous speakers have said, to draw attention to two issues under Chapter 3 on the responsibility of the administration and state-owned companies. This concerns review case 10 concerning Alice Bah Kuhnke's handling of national coordinators and audit case 11 on lignite. That's enough. On the question of Alice Bah Kuhnke's handling of the national coordinator, the committee notes that it was the Minister of Culture and Democracy who took the decision to appoint the official in question, a former bodyguard, to the national coordinator against violent extremism, Mona Sahlin. There were media data indicating something else, but we have clearly shown that this is not the case. The Minister for Culture and Democracy is ultimately responsible for setting up the post in question on objective and objective grounds and for not taking account of irrelevant circumstances during the period of employment. We cannot examine in detail how the individual case has been handled, but it was Alice Bah Kuhnke who was responsible for it. Statements in the newspaper interview in Expressen could be interpreted as having been taken by the national coordinator. So that was not the case. The KU points out that the committee wishes to emphasise the importance of the government's statements being correct. Again, and without starting to count on my fingers: Alice Bah Kuhnke should be very careful with source references. The Government Office must receive an annual report on the work of the National Coordinator. This has not happened, and this is also a point that the KU criticises. So to the question of lignite. The KU does not have to deal with or assess the political aspect of lignite, how it was in the election movement and what was said and not said. It can be said, however, that this whole issue has been through-politicised. The KU has had the task of seeing what was correct in fact. The question of an environmental discussion was not relevant in the context of ownership coordination. The review has shown that it was possible to reject the sale of lignite mines without changing the mandate for Vattenfall. The committee stresses that the statements made by the Government should be based on data as accurate. I can also mention that it was a long way off and that it was not an easy process to come up with this. In addition to politicisation, it took just over an hour before Minister Mikael Damberg admitted at a hearing in KU that it was possible to say no to the divestment without changing the assignment for Vattenfall.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-409	Mr President, I would like to I would like to apologise now for the fact that I am going to go over time, but with a government like this, unfortunately, there will be quite a lot of dirty clothes that need to be vented. There are politicians and officials in the Government Offices and the Ministries. Sometimes it's also the case that you put on different roles, and then it's especially important that you don't confuse these roles. Although one moment you are the politician and spokesperson Gustav Fridolin, on other occasions you can be Minister of Education in the Swedish Government. In the latter case, it is subject to some other regulation, such as the form of government. As representatives of the government and also employers, it is important to communicate clearly to their employees about, when and that they act as state employees and not as officials of a non-profit political association. That is to say, what environmentalists do in their free time does not matter to the KU. But when we serve the themes in R Egeringskansliet want to knead colleagues and fry news, it becomes a completely different thing. The committee has noted that a general starting point for contacts between representatives of state institutions and the media is that editorial independence should of course not be violated. In addition, in the case of contacts with public service broadcasters, it is added that these companies broadcast programmes with the support of government authorisation. As the committee has previously pointed out, everyone who performs tasks in the public administration has a high degree of prudence in dealing with the person who is the subject of an authority's decision. The Government and the Ministers are responsible to the Riksdag for the activities of the Government Office. In the present case, it is reported that the contacts with SVT have taken place without the Minister of Education's knowledge, and this may be the case. However, the Minister for Education should have made it clear that it may be difficult to be an official in the Government Office and at the same time an official in the Green Party – especially if the contacts with SVT mainly concern issues linked to the Ministry of Education's own party. In order to avoid such matters in the future, the KU continues to stress that officials in the Government Office have the task of preparing government affairs and assisting the government and the ministers in their activities – not to knead party colleagues and fry news. This may be something to bear in mind next time any government representative may have the idea of lunching with violent Islamists or refusing to take women in hand. Another thing you have to think about when working in a department is Twitter. Here, too, one has to deal with whether one takes on the role of party function or non-political official. If you don't want to conduct politics like Donald Trump, you should think about the relationship you have with social media. I am, of course, talking about the unpleasantness of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs towards our Christian Democratic colleagues and the tweet published on the official channel of the agency. In retrospect, it has been found that the tweet was sent by mistake by an employee at the department who believed that he was logged in to another account is the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' official. The KU has been reached by the information that, in view of the event, guidelines and policy documents have been developed regarding information and communication in social media and that the content of the documents is made available in various ways. Of course, it is easy to be hindsight, but this should probably never have happened. One wonders how much government officials work for the good of the kingdom versus the good of one's own party. As far as the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is concerned, we also feel that we have been able to see some other creative developments in recent times, such as explicit disclaimers that officials have published information without the government's interference, even though the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' channels should thus reflect the official Swedish position. This was the case, for example, when an activist official at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs wanted to respond to an article in the Wall Street Journal that he thought gave a false picture of Sweden. If this practice was sanctioned by the relevant Minister and if it will be more common in future to act in this way, we do not know. However, the motive should be clear: to try to protect the ministers from the KU's scrutiny – since the KU thus examines government and ministers rather than officials. In any case, it seems to be a comfortable and easily accessible piece of wood to use when you so please. Mr President, I would like to Sometimes, then, contacts with the media can be a bit difficult. I mentioned in my introduction that I would come back to Alice Bah Kuhnke, who is, of course, blamed in all the cases in which she has been examined. She, too, failed to stick to the truth when, in a debate article on advertising taxes, she confused announcements and dates. Was it 2002 or 2008 that Parliament's announcement to the government came? The government did not seem to know and did not seem to have endeavoured to pursue the facts before she began to formulate her debate article, even though she had plenty of time. Although the Minister of Culture is poor at keeping track of his papers and is notorious in her KU return, she may almost be considered second and beaten by the government's own Baghdad Bob, namely Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman. He does not forget or mix his notes. He simply goes with untruth when it suits him – and also before the Constitutional Committee. Last year Anders Ygeman was interviewed in TT about changes in Sweden's position on whether an EU border force could be deployed against the will of Member States. He made the following point: that all parties had supported Sweden's position and that on Thursday he had established the government's line in the Committee on Justice. He also felt that if a country, after going through the entire staircase, opposed action, these would be binding. The point is that both the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party had objections and opposed the proposal as it was designed. This was also expressed in the Minutes of the Committee on Legal Affairs. For the sake of order, I would like to say that it is not possible to add anything to the minutes afterwards if this has not been stated at the meeting. At a hearing with Anders Ygeman during the last spring review of the KU, I asked the Minister of the Interior what this meant, and he replied: It simply depends on the culture that Parliament has to adjust the minutes. You can change your sentence until the protocol is adjusted. Some parties chose to use this option to adjust their position after the committee meeting. There was no position expressed at the meeting. Consider that, as I have just said, there is no possibility of changing the sentence after the end of the meeting and the Minutes having been approved. So the Minister for the Interior sat in an open hearing and tried a small robber before the whole committee – this despite the fact that he had access to the said minutes and plenty of time to prepare for the KU hearing. Furthermore, in connection with the KU's investigation, he has persisted in his view rather than apologizing and trying to correct the problem afterwards. As the committee has previously pointed out, the constitutional control carried out by the Constitutional Committee presupposes that the committee can rely on the accuracy of the information provided, that they give a true picture of what is being examined and that no essential facts are left out. The KU has stressed in previous positions that information given to the Constitutional Committee should be correct and that deliberately misleading information can of course never be accepted and is contrary to the substantive requirement of the government. One might well ask why we even organise meetings between committees and government representatives if, firstly, they do not care to take on board what is said there; secondly, they do not even care to read the Minutes and, thirdly, they lie about it before the KU. We can certainly all agree on this. Now I turn to our reservation, namely the one about the chief police officer and his promoter Morgan Johansson. In the past, I have talked about the need to be objective when acting as a minister and not confuse their roles as a minister and as a party politician. Morgan Johansson cannot do this as he is constantly rushing to the defense of his Social Democratic protégé. The Head of the National Police has not gained his position because of competence and competence in police matters, but rather because of his contacts with high social democratic representatives. Here I can have some sympathy for Morgan Johansson, who must hold the party together while he must defend a clearly useless head of authority. And that's when it can be so wrong. What has happened is that in an interview with the Expressen newspaper, the head of the police has made various inappropriate statements. This led to his being reported and investigated for misconduct. The Minister for Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson was interviewed by Dagens Nyheter and said that Dan Eliasson has marked against the values of the Swedish Democrats, and it should be clear that SD is not just any party. –– I think it's good that the chief police officer marks against values that are not in line with what the Swedish police should stick to. The police and other Swedish state administration are based on the basic belief that all people are equally worth. The Swedish Democrats take a different view there. That is why I do not think it is strange to mark that way. ..................................................... In other words, the investigation of misconduct was still ongoing at the time of the interview. This means that the Minister for Justice and Migration spoke on an ongoing case. He spoke about the person under investigation and about the issue at issue. This is stumblingly close to the conditions that were at hand in another matter, where city councillor Anders Ygeman pronounces on a prosecutor's warrant. The Constitutional Committee stated that, in view of their special status, even in view of the fact that they, like all other citizens, have the right to make statements in different contexts, the Council of Ministers should show some restraint in relation to statements concerning the exercise of authority against individuals or the application of law. The statements I am talking about relate to the application of law because the Government applied its own interpretation of the provisions of the Criminal Code on misconduct. Morgan Johanson has excused himself that he did not know that an investigation was going on and that he only suppressed continued confidence in the chief police officer. But the thing is that the matter has been rewritten in two of Sweden's largest evening newspapers, which means that the Government should have known about it if he has done his business around the world. I was abroad myself, but I knew the whole course of events anyway. If you look at what the Government has really said and what has been published in the media, he does not say anything about trust, but he makes purely material interpretations of law in an ongoing case. It must therefore be considered clear that the Government has gone untruthfully. This in itself is serious. It is therefore impossible for us not to reserve ourselves against the majority in this matter.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-445	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to point out that a united committee is behind this review report. It may be good for the public to know about this. I would also like to refer here to a specific matter of scrutiny, namely the G9, concerning the statements made by the Minister for Home Affairs after deliberation in Parliament on a European border guard, which is covered by the chapter, some questions relating to the performance of the duties of the Council, etc. On 11 February 2016, Anders Ygeman visited the Committee on Justice for deliberation on the Commission's proposal for a regulation on a European Border and Coast Guard. The minutes show, among other things, that the basis for the deliberations was a memorandum from the Government Office, that the Government's proposal for a Swedish position was reflected in the memorandum and that the Government shared the view expressed at the meeting that the importance of protecting the Swedish constitutions and the right to seek asylum was safeguarded. It is further apparent from the protocol that the representatives of the Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Environmental Party, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats declared that they supported the government's position. As we have just heard, according to the protocol, the representatives of the Swedish Democrats expressed their support for the government's position in the negotiations but, for reasons of principle, opposed the EU's encroachment on the right of Member States to control and maintain their borders. The protocol also shows that the representative of the Vä nster party stated that she did not support the government's position, as the proposal is too far-reaching and leads to more supranationality. The minutes of the meeting of the Committee on Justice were approved on 23 February 2016. In an interview with TT published on Sweden's Television website on 11 February 2016, Ygeman stated that the government had received support in the Swedish Parliament for the line that a European border force could be deployed if a Member State misbehaves the surveillance of the EU's external border. He went on to say that I am very pleased that all parties have supported what is now Sweden's position. ..................................................... The same spring, 2016, the Committee of Internal Affairs examined Anders Ygeman acting in the EU Council of Ministers on EU border controls. On 18 April 2016, the committee held a hearing with him. Among other things, he was asked about the role in the interview with TT that all parties in the Committee on Justice had supported the government's position. In this part, Anders Ygeman stated, among other things, that no dissenting opinion had been given at the meeting. He explained:中 It simply depends on the culture that Parliament has to adjust the minutes. You can change your sentence until the protocol is adjusted. Some parties chose to use this option to adjust their position after the committee meeting. There was no position expressed at the meeting. By e-mail to one of the notifiers, the Head of the Registry of the Committee on Justice has stated on the matter that the minutes of the meeting of the Committee on Justice of 11 February 2016 do not contain any information that was not provided at the meeting. However, according to the head of the cabinet, representatives of the committee's office tend to agree subsequently on the selection of what has been stated at the meeting with the members and then add or delete if there is something that is deemed necessary to be clarified or that the member considers relevant or not. I would also like to raise the issue of substance. Of Chapter 1, Section 9, the form of government follows that courts, administrative authorities and others carrying out public administration functions must take into account the equality of all persons before the law and respect objectivity and impartiality. The external framework of the principle of objectivity follows from the same chapter and the same paragraph, while its detailed content is derived, inter alia, from statements by the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice, as well as from the decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court in the examination and review of concrete decisions by the authorities and decisions taken by them. The Constitutional Committee has, during an earlier examination, explained the importance of the requirement of objectivity. It is contained in a 2007/ 08 review report. By letter to the Government Office, the committee asked for answers to a number of questions. On 2 February 2017, the Committee received a response spromemoria prepared within the Ministry of Justice. This memorandum shows that at the meeting of the Committee on Justice on 11 February 2016, a number of comments were made by representatives of the parliamentary parties, including representatives of the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party. Furthermore, it is clear from the memo that the Minister for the Interior did not perceive any point of view as being of a different opinion from the Government's final position at the meeting and that the statements at the interview later that day were a consequence of this. In view of the above, the Minister for the Interior assumed that the issue of dissent had been clarified in the minutes after the end of the meeting, and the statements of the Minister for the Interior at the hearing in the Constitutional Committee on 18 April 2016 should be seen in the light of that very fact. Then there is the committee's position. We note that the investigation into the matter reveals that during the interview with representatives of TT on 11 February 2016, the Minister of the Interior provided incorrect information regarding support in the Riksdag. As the responsible Minister of State, the Minister of Interior is responsible for his statements and therefore for the accuracy of the information he provides. In addition, it appears from the committee's review that, at the hearing in KU on 18 April 2016, the Minister for the Interior also provided incorrect information as regards the statements made at the meeting of the Justice Committee. As the committee pointed out earlier, the constitutional control carried out by the committee presupposes that it can be trusted that the information provided is correct and gives a fair view of what is being examined and that essential facts are not left out. This means that the Minister for the Interior has failed in his reporting to the committee, thereby making constitutional control more difficult. As a representative of the government parties, that is to be regretted. But the KU gives a fair picture and makes a fair assessment.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-455	Mr President, I would like to I might have to apologize. I may have been a little too quick on the button. But at the beginning of Veronica Lindholm's speech, I almost had the impression that there were some things that might not be true to the reality and that the actions were read a little like a certain master in southern latitudes reads the Bible. Did I correctly understand Veronica Lindholm? Did she suggest that we were in complete agreement on the report or that we were in complete agreement on this particular matter? It'll have to be a first control issue.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-457	Mr President, I would like to We were in complete agreement with the report, not precisely with regard to this point of decision.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-458	Mr President, I would like to Then perhaps I was not too quick anyway, because, as Veronica Lindholm knows, we have actually submitted a reservation, which means: No, the KU is not entirely in agreement with the report as such. There is a reservation and two special opinions from the Swedish Democrats. Then I would like to ask Veronica Lindholm about another matter. When she explained the circumstances and the information that had come from the head of the Registry of the Committee on Justice, Thomas Lindstam, I could almost get the impression that it wanted to reduce and detract from this: yes, but it was perhaps as the Minister for the Interior said, that there was an opportunity to make such changes afterwards. However, the office manager's e-mail explicitly states that this was not the case. Then I wonder why Veronica Lindholm chose to leave out that part when she referred to this email.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-460	Mr President, I would like to It's very simple. On p. 333 of the report, the text I have just read is exactly what I read.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-461	Mr President, I would like to I would like to dwell briefly on the review of the statement by the Minister for Home Affairs on the European Border Guard. But after Veronica's speech, I feel an even less need to develop this. We've got it well described, I think. I can highlight something that I think it is important for the KU to really inculcate. A minister has failed in his reporting to the KU. We in the KU agreed on that. The serious thing about this is that it makes it difficult for the KU to exercise control. It's serious. We agree on that, and it's big, I think.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-463	Mr President, I would like to It is a long debate, so I, too, will be very brief. We are now on the last chapter, No 4, of the spring review report. I am actually just going to talk about one of the reviews that has not been up to date in the debate. It is a review case concerning the statement by former Minister for Migration Tobias Billström on those who worked as interpreters in connection with Sweden's military operation in Afghanistan. We have not pointed out shortcomings there, but we have some comments in our report. In July 2012, 24 people who worked as interpreters in connection with Sweden's military operation requested asylum in Sweden. At the time, the Minister for Migration stated that it would be completely unreasonable if a person employed by the Swedish State could receive a more favourable treatment than one who was not. The issue was later resolved by a system that allows interpreters with protection needs to come as refugees to Sweden. On this issue, the committee has a comment. Although the statement described the legislation in force, it could be interpreted, taken from its context, as referring to the possibility of applying for a residence permit. It is, of course, urgent that the statement by a minister gives as full a picture as possible of the relevant circumstances.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-467	Mr President, I would like to I would like to make a few comments on Chapter 4. I would like to start with the issues of the foreign minister's relationship with a trade union and the defence minister's relationship with a military foundation. Both of these are about the ministers' problems in getting an apartment when they became ministers and did not live in Stockholm. As I mentioned at the outset in previous speeches, the KU has stated that it would be reasonable for the government to make efforts to make it easier for the government to get housing. The notifications concern the question of whether it has been a conflict of interest. The KU has found that there has been no conflict between the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence in this regard. However, some other problems have arisen in connection with this review. It is a problem with a register but also a situation of conflict, one can say that, when the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence was given the task of managing contacts between the Ministry of Defence and the foundation he himself previously worked on the board of directors. That's where we talk about some problems. Then there is the use of the word dictatorship by the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister. It's been reported. The notifier believes that statements about Saudi Arabia should almost be obliged to use the word dictatorship. I think it is an important statement of principle made by the KU. We say that, in foreign policy in particular, the representatives of the state cannot be bound to use certain words. Diplomacy requires a certain amount of space to use words that fit in with the context in order to have a constructive debate with different countries. In this context, therefore, the KU has chosen to say that it was okay not to use the word. I think it is important that, in this context too, we show what is a reasonable approach on the part of the Ministers of State. The Minister for the Interior has been notified for a statement on data storage, which states that he has spoken in a way that is not in line with case law following a decision of the European Court of Justice which has said that telecoms companies cannot be forced to provide data storage. However, the KU has assessed that the statement made by the Minister for the Interior in this context is that, in order to cope with the fight against crime, we need such information. The KU has therefore found that this statement does not conflict with the facts. It is therefore a question of need, not a statement of whether or not you can store. It is also an important part to clarify for the future: Where is the limit for our ministers?
i-546dbb42a99fb610-474	Mr President, I would like to Then we are at the last section of the review discussion. Perhaps the debate on scrutiny is a little bit to say – a result of speeches. Two of these cases concern the purchase of housing by ministers. This applies to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström and Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist. The KU notes that the rules on conflict of interest have been complied with in this context, but we also point out that there may be reason for the government to review the possibility of actually providing housing to ministers. We have a system for ourselves MPs, where the Riksdag provides housing because we have and want a system of MPs from all over the country. It is important that we can also have ministers coming from elsewhere than the capital. Having a place to live is fundamental to serving as a minister, and it would therefore be reasonable for the government to look at this. It is very strange that it should be up to the ministers themselves to arrange housing. In connection with the review, Margot Wallström's relationship with Kommunal has also been highlighted. It was discovered that there was a letter that was not registered until after a month. The registration and handling of public documents within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is something that the KU has looked at on several occasions. It has been a recurring theme. As I said in the introduction, it is crucial for the public to be able to review the power that you actually know what the documents are and that the registration works. I assume that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue to develop that system so that it is fully operational. Another matter concerning the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the use of the Ministry's Twitter account. The committee puts it a little better-looking, but here one can well note that an official has simply been a clumsy. It is good that the Ministry has now developed clear guidelines and instructions for how to use social media, and it has also spread in both the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Government Office. A good consequence of this may be that officials will have some extra control so that you really are in the right account when you manage the departments' social media accounts. The fact that the departments are active on social media is good, but it should be correct information. There, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has corrected the error that was committed and also written a Twitter message that it was not behind the wrong tweet that came out.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-481	Mr President, I would like to Here comes another speech. I would like to mention one of the reports that has not been included in the list of cases where the KU is expressing shortcomings but which nevertheless deserves a few words, because I believe that there is some wisdom to be drawn from it, and this concerns the case of the G21 concerning the use by the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister of the word. The Prime Minister is reported because he has stated in interviews prior to a trip to the Middle East that he does not intend to designate Saudi Arabia as a dictatorship but that he intends to continue to address human rights issues. He does this despite the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' report on human rights in Saudi Arabia, which shows quite clearly that the monarch has a sovereign power and that the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia is serious and subject to widespread international criticism. There is also a long list of human rights violations in Saudi Arabia. The Prime Minister does this despite the fact that, in interpellation debates, the Foreign Minister has also given a completely different picture of Saudi Arabia than the Prime Minister, where she lists a number of serious violations of human rights and states that it is clear that no word other than dictatorship can be used. If the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is supposed to be an expert in foreign affairs and relations, interpret what Saudi Arabia is, how can the Prime Minister have a completely different interpretation? Mr President, I would like to Whatever the definition of dictatorship, Saudi Arabia falls under that heading. It is important that Sweden continues to be a clear voice for democracy and human rights throughout the world. We cannot have different standards for different ministers. A foreign policy line must be maintained. The question then is whether the Prime Minister acted wrongly when using a different concept from that used by the Foreign Affairs Department and the Foreign Minister. The preliminary work on the form of government states that the government should, as a general rule, act as a unit, but there are no formal rules for one to speak with one voice. On the other hand, it is, of course, fair to think that it is good for the kingdom if one minister has the same line as another, especially in the field of foreign policy. In fact, the Prime Minister's statement expresses the government's position that the work to promote democracy and human rights is not primarily carried out by categorising the governments of countries, but by actively promoting democracy and human rights in all relevant contexts. The Foreign Minister has expressed the same position on several occasions. It must simply be possible, within the framework of the work to support our democratic values, to adapt and nuance statements according to the circumstances of different situations. The committee also notes this and believes that the statements cannot be considered to be contrary to the demands we have either for the categorisation of countries or the overall picture that the government conveys of our foreign policy. But, Mr President, I believe that Saudi Arabia is a dictatorship and that we all in this House and in the government are behind it, as well as that Sweden must be a clear voice in the long-term work to strengthen democracy and human rights everywhere in the world.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-495	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I regret that I confused Minister Ygeman with Minister Damberg in my last speech. What I was referring to was Minister Damberg, and the hearing of him is on p. 3 of our review report, the part about hearings. I would particularly like to thank the Vice-President for his correction. We are now at Chapter 4, which deals with the duties of the Council of Ministers. First of all, housing shows up again. There have been a few occasions when we have had to look at housing – the homes of the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Defence – and whether they have been fucked up or not, and so on. What we have found with regard to the residence of Minister of Defence Hultqvist is only that the Secretary of State, as the Minister of Defence, hired indirectly from former employees of the Armed Forces' management and also a member of the Board. The committee considers that the appropriateness of giving the Secretary of State responsibility for the government dialogue with the Swedish Armed Forces in matters relating to the relationship between the Swedish Armed Forces and the MHS-Housing Foundation is questionable. That's it! That's it! But the committee is doing something more important. We say together that on the basis of the questions raised in the review, the committee believes that there may be reason for the government to consider the need to provide housing, and in that case in what way, to ministers who are not resident in the Stockholm area. I would say that this is the good accountant pointing forward. The committee does not want any more such matters. Whether they are clear, in the grey area or completely wrong, we do not want to try such matters again. It would be a good deed if the government wanted to provide housing. Moreover, it would be a good deal for the state, since housing is unlikely to lose value over time. I would like to say something about investigation case No. 9 on the misinformation of Minister Ygeman on EU border surveillance. There are two statements by the Minister for the Interior following a discussion in the Committee of Justice on European Border Guards. The committee notes that the investigation into the matter reveals that during the interview with representatives of TT on 11 February 2016, the Minister of the Interior provided incorrect information regarding support in the Riksdag. In addition, our review shows that in connection with the hearing in the Constitutional Committee on 18 April 2016, he provided incorrect information on what was said at the meeting of the Justice Committee. One is serious and the other is even more serious. This means that the Minister for the Interior has failed in his report to the Constitutional Committee. What does that mean? Yes, he has thereby made constitutional control more difficult. We take this very seriously. In review case 30 it is Minister Bah Kuhnke's advertising tax that is being dealt with. In the current review, we note that the previous government proposed a reduction in advertising tax for certain periodical publications but not its abolition. According to the Government Office's reply, the Minister for Culture and Democracy intended to point out in the current debate that the previous government did not completely abolish the advertising tax. However, the committee notes that the Parliament's announcement on advertising tax was made in April 2002, so the statement that the majority of the Parliament commissioned the former bourgeois government to abolish advertising tax is simply wrong.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-503	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased, Mr President, that this speech will also be brief. A lot is said. I thought I'd concentrate on the issue of housing for ministers. Stockholm's housing market is hot. The headlines in the papers are about black business. It is about children of members of the Swedish Academy who get to go ahead to the Academy's apartments. It's about how the court's hundreds of apartments are distributed to the royal children's friends. It's about everything else in that part. The state actually disposes of many apartments in Stockholm, directly or indirectly, via its ownership. Yet there is a situation in which not only now, but also in the past, there have been problems with the ministers and their housing. Government ministers in previous governments have remained in Parliament's apartments against the rules of parliament. I will not mention names – it prolongs the debate, and it is unnecessary. There have been former ministers who have not been associated with the Ministry of Defence but have still received apartments via a defence-related military foundation. I won't mention their names either. Housing in Stockholm is problematic. I do not understand why we should subject ministers, parties, government or parliament to unnecessary political doubt when the state disposes of so many apartments. It is obvious that a person from Arvidsjaur will be able to become Minister of State in the Swedish Government. You should not have to be born in the city and have been in the housing queue since you were a child to get a housing if you become a minister in the Swedish government. It doesn't make any sense. That question must be resolved.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-507	Mr President, I would like to It was a shame that Hans Ekström did not mention any names. Perhaps then we would finally have had a debate, unlike a long series of speeches. I have the great honour, as the last speaker, to finish the speeches on the review dossiers in Chapter 4. in the report. I was just going to dwell on what I have dived into in the case management, what many more have talked about, namely the MHS-Housing Foundation. I cannot stress enough that I share the view that most people have on the housing issue for the ministers. It is a matter for the government to resolve and nothing for us in Parliament. Surely that is also the order of the ministers, not only in terms of practicality but also in terms of security. Many ministers are given a prominent role and have personal protection in different ways. This is, of course, related to where they are staying during their time in Stockholm. It is part of the committee's view when the question is put to the government that this should definitely be resolved. That is also the personal meaning of many. I'll move on to the actual investigation. In a series of articles in Svenska Dagbladet, it was noted that the Minister of Defence, through the Military University Housing Foundation MHS-Bostäder, had access to an apartment in Stockholm. During the review, the KU asked how this was done. So it was a tip from inside the Government Office that you could apply for housing from the foundation. When you move from a Member of Parliament to a Minister of State, the housing issue must be resolved at short notice. What is MHS Housing? A board of directors is appointed by ÖB. Among other things, the board has military personnel in high positions attached to the Swedish Armed Forces. As you know, the Armed Forces are under the authority of the Ministry of Defence and the Minister of Defence. This is the same as close relationships where you obviously have to look at how they relate to each other. In addition, which is also included in the notification, there are certain conflicts of interest between the Housing Foundation and the Swedish Armed Forces when the foundation wants to acquire a number of properties. They're handled by the Fortifications Agency. The scale of the transaction makes it subject to a government decision. A weave is woven together. The question of the conflict, Mr President, is whether the Minister of Defence, ultimately responsible for the Ministry, has participated in any of the preparations for the acquisition of the property because, after his entry as Minister of State, he previously employed the Lieutenant General and the Head of the Command Staff and the Headquarters of Jan Salestrand, who thus entered the Government Office from the Swedish Armed Forces. Jan Salestrand also sat in this Housing Foundation until one week before his entry as Secretary of State. Of course, these are very close relationships, which we have not been able to ignore. In addition, the Swedish National Audit Office has carried out an audit and looked a little extra at the management – how to assign apartments from the Housing Foundation, who should be considered as operating support and how housing services are provided. Some recommendations have been made. The person who handled the government dialogue with the Swedish Armed Forces on the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office is previously Lieutenant General Jan Salestrand. This, of course, is something that can be likened to conflictlike conditions. It is, in any case, very inappropriate that the government and ultimately the Minister for Defence have appointed the Secretary of State to deal with this. Of course, it touches on and spills over to the Minister for Defence as ultimately responsible. To sum up: No, the defense minister has not been able to prove the facts of the property acquisition. We have been able to see that the housing issue has been properly handled. However, it is highly inappropriate for the Secretary of State, Jan Salestrand, to conduct official dialogues in matters in which he has been involved in various positions, both as a defence force employee and as part of MHS-Bostäder. Mr President, I would like to As the last speaker, I would like to express my enormous thanks to my colleagues in the KU. It's a real pleasure to go to work every day in your company. We handle it, I think, difficult and comprehensive review both in the autumn but especially in the spring with both enthusiasm and joy and also with great seriosity. Like previous speakers, I cannot stress enough – with so many lines at all – and highlight our fantastic office, which is working days and nights to provide us with a basis that is often legally heavy and requires extra detail to draw our attention to what it should be put on. Thank you so much. A good summer I wish you all and also the President!
i-546dbb42a99fb610-519	Mr President, I would like to We have discussed the Committee report – the activities of the committees in 2016. For those who do not know it, the government has set up various committees, working groups, to negotiate issues of substance or other things that require deeper and broader control. These may include issues such as impact assessment for personal integrity, gender-neutral designations of occupations and assignments, easy-to-read Swedish in government public investigations and government work on long-term ideas and policy development. The committee rejects the motion for a resolution on an issue which it has dealt with earlier in its term of office and which some of you have already heard of. Something in this report that I would like to mention in particular is a statement by the Privacy Committee, in which I myself have sat with many of the other members of the KU. On 7 June, the final report was presented, so we are strengthening personal integrity. The investigator was tasked with, among other things, monitoring and analysing the effects on the legislative work of strengthening the constitutional protection of personal privacy through the introduction of Chapter 2. Section 6, second paragraph, the form of government. The investigator notes that the committee regulation does not require an impact assessment of proposals in relation to Chapter 2. Section 6, second paragraph, the form of government and personal integrity at all. The investigator believes that it is important for government committees and special investigators to be better aware of and apply the provision. The Committee therefore proposed that the government should include a provision in the comitology regulation to the effect that if a proposal has an impact on privacy, the impact should be described in the report. Since the Privacy Committee has proposed that the Government include the provision on privacy impact assessment in the Committee Regulation, the Committee does not wish to pre-empt the preparation of the Privacy Committee's investigation. The committee therefore rejects the motion for a resolution. I had a different arrangement, but now Tina Acketoft ironed out. Then my speech fell a little. I didn't have time to be there. But now I'm on it. Mr President, I would like to This is my last speech by many in the line. My summer will hopefully be partly spent in a Baden-Baden. I wish the committee and the cabinet a really nice summer with leave from the KU's control and hope that you will have pleasant days with loved ones away from our review role. For those who find it boring and need some comfort: Summer is fast – it's almost autumn!
i-546dbb42a99fb610-532	Mr President, I would like to Veronica Lindholm! You're saying you shouldn't engage in the control of the KU during the summer? That is when we have time to really drill ourselves into all the errors that are being committed. I will be brief because the KU24 concerns a government letter that is proposed to be added to the documents. It feels undramatic, but there is actually one thing that I think is worthy of particular attention. I'm backing the tape to last year's administrative review. At the time, the KU noted that the proportion of parliamentary committees in traditional terms has decreased. It has become comparatively more common with special investigators or committees that have some form of parliamentary consultation linked to themselves – almost like a small sidecar, one might say. The committee noted that there are various explanations for these developments, such as the parliamentary situation that arises when a government does not have its own majority in parliament. Then it may be good for the government to involve the opposition parties in any way, without allowing the investigation to take the form of a full-scale parliamentary committee. There are other acceptable reasons for setting up expert investigations, with or without parliamentary elements, but I am not going into this further. These reasons can be read more about in the Committee's position in last year's report KU10. No, Mr President, I am standing here in order to put on record the fact that the KU welcomes the fact that the government has taken on board the committee's comments on the need for a review of the criteria for the accounting of the parliamentary element of comitology. It sounds stout and it is, but it is an important thing – not least with regard to the fundamental value of the investigative services in Swedish administrative tradition and not least as consumer information to voters. It must be possible to easily find information that, for example, a parliamentary reference group is linked to a particular investigation and who is in that group. In the government committee's report, there is now data on these reference groups and other parliamentary consultations, and that, as I said, is something that the committee very much welcomes. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish Mr President and all of us a really nice summer.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-540	Mr President, I would like to I have to admit that I put myself on the list today for purely tactical reasons, in the event of any outcome or attack on account of our particular opinion. This was not the case, and given that I went over the time of my last speech, I would like to invite back a few minutes by wishing everyone a wonderful summer and seeing each other as soon as possible.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-541	Mr President, I would like to In this report, the Swedish Democrats have a wide range of reservations, which we obviously stand up for, but for time to come, I only ask for reservations 2 and 5 to be accepted. The municipal self-government turns 155 this year, if I have counted correctly. There is a long story to tell about it, but I will be content with a summary given that time is limited. Sweden's municipalities have a long history of urban origin and medieval parish. The parishes began to form in the 1000s and were built around the churches. After the Reformation, the parishes were given responsibility for general schooling, and eventually they were also given the task of caring for the poorest. Gradually the self-government of cities increased, and the parish became more and more a general bourgeois union through the separation of church and state affairs. In 1862 the municipal regulations were adopted, and some years later they were made law. This laid the foundation for the Swedish municipal system and also the municipal law we are discussing here today in the Swedish parliament. The municipalities were initially based on the parishes of the past, and therefore there were no less than nearly 2,500 municipalities in Sweden at the beginning. Since then, a lot has happened. Sweden currently consists of only 290 municipalities and 20 county councils. Demographic changes through immigration and further urbanisation have continued to change the local and regional conditions dramatically. It is with these changed conditions in mind that we should review what the rules of the present and future for our municipalities and county councils should look like. Mr President, I would like to The government is now presenting a proposal for a new municipal law. In conclusion, the law regulates our municipalities and our county councils' organisation and various responsibilities. The Local Government Act also regulates what municipalities are allowed to do, the conditions for the work of municipal councils and councils, and the financial management of municipalities. According to the Local Government Act, municipalities are allowed to deal with matters of general interest themselves. This applies to matters relating to the municipality's area or its inhabitants. On the other hand, a municipality cannot normally assume tasks for which the State or other municipality is responsible. The proposal that Parliament has to adopt is basically a complete redrafting and modernisation of current legislation, but in substance does not involve any major changes – unfortunately, to be said. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are a relatively young political party. In spite of this, during the last parliamentary term we have experienced how the political game around Sweden can take place in practice in many places. We have been able to observe several dishonest alliances. Through these, the old political establishment has done everything in its power to exclude the Swedish Democrats from what they have seen as their own political salons. This has in practice led to a political landscape in which fewer and fewer people today have faith. Political issues have become secondary, and responsibility towards their own voters has in many cases been set aside. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, when the old balance of power is threatened, politics has to stand back. Then the people and the voters will stand back, and then democracy will have to stand back. Political rhetoric and thieving have, of course, always existed. However, it is my firm conviction that it is because more and more voters see the direct unwillingness of the old parties to take responsibility that today we see a new political landscape drawn up in which confidence and willingness to engage in the traditional political parties are diminished. In Sweden we have representative democracy. This means that our citizens choose the politicians and political parties that best reflect their opinion. We, therefore, who have the honour of being elected, are to represent the people and our voters. We will reflect society as a whole and the flora of opinions that exist. What happens then, Mr President, if this in any way fails? What happens when politicians forget who they primarily represent? Let me be very concrete for a moment. The ultimate expression of democracy is our free and secret elections. In order to be able to make an election that coincides with their own views, the voters must know the various options that exist as much as possible before the elections. If, for example, the voters were to know before the elections that it did not matter which party within the Alliance they voted for because they nevertheless intended to conclude something as clever as the December agreement, which meant that they gave up their right to act as an opposition, I am convinced that many voters had chosen differently. Why, then, do I mention all this when we are now discussing the Local Government Act? The whole thing is really very simple. Around our country – in municipalities, county councils and regions – the political game is taking place. This game is unfortunately many times anything but honest. It is we politicians who must take responsibility. We are ultimately responsible for making the game more honest. Politics and political issues must once again be at the top of the political agenda. Then it's not good enough to keep old political friends around. Then it is not good enough to betray our promises to the voters. Then it is not good enough to pretend that you are a political option when you actually sit on the knees of the majority. Those of you who have ever been in a council know how common it is with so-called opposition parties who may not even present their own draft budgets in the council. Instead, they have at most a budget with a few amendments based on the majority's budget, while they agree on 99% of everything else. I believe that the voters deserve more than that. They deserve clarity, and they deserve honesty. Mr President, I would like to It is for this reason, among other things, that the Swedish Democrats are now proposing a number of changes to the Local Government Act. In our motion there are 13 different proposals that aim to strengthen democracy, increase public confidence in politics and smooth the political conditions in our municipalities and county councils. I would like to mention some of these in particular. First of all, the Swedish Democrats want to take back the municipal self-government. As I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, this principle has now existed for 155 years, if I have counted correctly. However, with the support of the so-called opposition, the government has jointly enforced laws that have moved power from municipalities and county councils to Stockholm and Brussels. The deterioration has been pushed on by current as well as previous governments. The fact that people who are not even Swedish citizens own the right to vote in municipal and county elections or how immigration policy should be administered locally is now largely decided over the heads of municipalities. In our opinion, each municipality should be free to decide how large the influx of so-called unaccompanied minors and refugees should be. By means of legislation that obliges municipalities to receive a large number of refugees or unaccompanied persons, the state binds municipalities to long-term economic and social commitments that in the long term have negative consequences for the municipality. Mr President, I would like to In many parts of our country, the social services are on their knees. Employees suffer from burnout when time is simply not enough. Local residents will see how entire residential areas are taken over by criminal gangs. Healthcare professionals may place patients in the corridors after the rooms have run out. Bluelight personnel are stoned when they try to prevent riots in the suburbs. Those who are to be burdened with this development are, of course, those politicians who have not put a stop, those politicians who have stood up and said that we should open our hearts, while social workers, health workers and blue-light personnel are on their knees. Mr President, I would like to These are laws that have been decided in this House, laws that, through the intervention of the municipal self-government, have deprived municipalities and county councils of their power to put an end to themselves. It is these laws that have enabled this drastic transformation of our society. The Swedish Democrats want to bring power back to the municipalities. We believe that the government must start a process here and now to renegotiate the Swedish conditions for Sweden's membership of the EU, so that Swedish municipalities and county councils do not have to be ruled from Brussels. The government must also make concrete proposals on how to strengthen the municipal self-government in these respects and how the power can actually begin to be restored to the municipalities. In our exercise, we also highlight the problem of empty chairs and political savages. Empty chairs are not only a loss to the political party, but above all it is a loss to the voters who, in practice, do not get a dividend for their votes. The argument against allowing parties to add candidates after elections to their mandates is often that it is the responsibility of the parties to ensure that there are substitutes who are prepared to step in. But it is hardly a secret that this is not possible in all situations. At the same time, it is a social problem that the interest in getting involved in political parties for a long time has actually been falling. Opening up to allow parties between elections to add candidates to the council would significantly reduce the risks of empty seats, while guaranteeing voters that their votes will actually pay dividends and count. The Swedish Democrats also want to link the mandates more clearly to the political parties. Political savages should therefore be able to get rid of their duties in the council as well as in boards, boards, companies and foundations, provided that they are not cruised. Persons who have been appointed, for example, as municipal councillors or who have been appointed on boards, boards of directors and companies should be able to be dismissed if they no longer enjoy the confidence of the party group. The Swedish Democrats also propose a fairer distribution of party support and political services. In practice, the wording, the form of the aid must not be such as to unduly favour or disadvantage a party, has had little impact on the practical outcome. The bill states that consideration should also be given to the provision of free premises and other cost services, while not imposing a price tag on these benefits. The starting point must be that economic party support is as fairly distributed as possible, and possibly also more linked to political services as well as office premises and the like. For example, if a party has access to Council services, political secretaries and office premises, the same party should not reasonably receive the same amount of cash as the party that has not received the same benefits. Unfortunately, political services have become a commodity in the various municipal and regional councils around the country. The rules should therefore be designed in such a way that it is also not possible in practice to dissociate or favour any individual political party. For example, political services could be distributed more fairly by tying them more strictly to the mandate of the individual party, while removing high thresholds, which in practice mean that there will be disproportionate differences between parties whose mandates actually differ very marginally. Mr President, I would like to An important principle is that the political parties that have been elected to the council are also given as much transparency as possible, so that they are given the opportunity to participate in the political work. In practice, in addition to what I have mentioned before, it is also a question of party support and political services being able to participate in the work of the committees and the board of directors. Unfortunately, there are examples of municipalities that, after the election results have been clarified, have reduced the number of seats in both boards and boards just to keep certain parties away from transparency. Such action is, of course, fundamentally undemocratic. The current legislative proposal continues to pose a high risk that a majority, through changes in the number of seats on boards and boards after an election, will minimise the influence of one or more parties. In this respect too, there should be some form of minority protection to ensure as much transparency as possible also for parties that fall outside the scope of electoral cooperation. In addition to the proposals mentioned, the Swedish Democrats also want to introduce the possibility of a local censure. As you know, there is a possibility of censure here in Parliament. Our opinion is that the same possibility should exist in our municipalities and county councils. My view is that it is the governing parties that have a responsibility for their policy being tolerated by a majority. If you do not have support, you simply have to sit down at the negotiating table with the other parties in the council and not give up until you have reached a solution that a majority can accept. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats want to strengthen democracy in several respects. One way to do this is to make it easier for the inhabitants of a municipality or a county to have a local referendum. The demands for this are, in our opinion, far too high today. It is reasonable to lower the threshold for the percentage of a municipality's or a region's inhabitants who need to sign in order for a referendum to take place, which is called a national initiative by the law. At the same time, it would be reasonable to explore other possibilities than those currently provided for, which in practice require the collection of signatures to be carried out manually on paper. For example, municipalities could set up a technical platform to enable digital petitions, where legitimisation using bank ID could be an option. Mr President, I would like to Soon the Riksdag will celebrate and celebrate 100 years of democracy in Sweden. In fact, the municipal self-government is older than that, but it is still a cornerstone of a functioning democracy. When the people and power drift apart, the Swedish Democrats want to halt. We want to transfer power back to the municipalities and to the population. We want to make the political system in our municipalities and county councils fairer, and we want to strengthen the power for people to influence when elected politicians may fail. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats really want to strengthen democracy.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-596	Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee proposes in the KU30 report that the Riksdag adopt the Government's proposal for a new municipal law. We agree from all parties, except from the Swedish Democrats, on the proposal for a new municipal law. The report deals with some 50 requests for exercise, in addition to the legislative proposal itself. As a result, the Constitutional Committee proposes an announcement to the Government that the Government should review the arrangements for appointing replacements on municipal boards, committees and committees. I am, of course, very grateful that this announcement has been made, based on my individual motion 2016/ 17:2957. The basis is the problem that I have highlighted there that when municipalities are elected to committees and boards, proportional election rules are applied to the municipal law that the election of replacements should be done according to a list. This is a common and uniform list and thus applies to all parties. This means that it is often the case that a party other than the party to replace a board or board of directors belongs to a party. This can often change the majority of a board or board. Proportional elections became quite common after the 2014 elections, when parties considered that they were not satisfied in the appointment of members and substitutes in the way they thought it should be. In that case, proportional elections were requested with this, on which we now agree, negative consistency. So we leave a mission to the government to look at this problem. I am very grateful that we fully agreed on this. I believe that the government will soon be able to come back with a solution to this problem. In any case, as I see it, it should not be very difficult. I would also like to highlight a motion by the Center Party on the matter of municipal and regional issues, which concerns the prevention of crime. We from the Center Party have pointed out that we want it to be clearer in terms of legislation that municipalities should take greater responsibility for crime prevention. In so doing, I am in favour of the proposal for a new municipal law.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-602	Mr President, I would like to We are therefore debating two reports at the same time. One report, the KU30, concerns the proposal for a new municipal law. The second report, the KU17, deals with general exercise time. They are linked, but I was going to talk about one report at a time. I'll start with the KU17. The report has several reservations and two are those of the Left Party. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 3. It is about the municipalities being given the opportunity to be responsible for temporary housing for asylum seekers. The Finnish Immigration Service could then rent the dwellings from the municipality, and the municipality, the Finnish Immigration Service and the Swedish Public Employment Service could agree on who should do what. In the Local Government Act, both the new and the old, it is not quite clear whether the municipality has this possibility. There are ambiguities in this area. This would improve the planning conditions for municipalities and, in combination with the possibility of increased responsibility for reception, could facilitate the transition of those who are then granted asylum. The majority rejects the proposal on the grounds that the municipal law has recently been reviewed in an investigation – it is dealt with in the KU30 report – and that the investigation did not highlight the issue. It's true. The investigation submitted its proposal in March 2015. It may be that the question of the reception of refugees was less topical during that period of investigation. It was the autumn of 2015, i.e. the same year but later, there were many more who sought protection in Sweden and Europe. We can see that there are problems in the Migration Agency's collaboration with municipalities and other authorities, and our view is that the distribution of responsibilities and powers between municipalities and the Migration Agency, among other things, should be reviewed. The Left also has a reservation on the announcement contained in the report. The Left Party shares the majority's view that it is important that the positions of trust in the municipality are designed so that more people are attracted to engage politically. The design and organisation of the meetings in time will certainly play a certain role, in which municipalities and county councils will assume their responsibilities. However, our view is that it is the political parties that have the greatest responsibility to get more people involved – and that they must take that responsibility. It is hardly the nature of the meetings in the municipality or county council that determines whether people become party members; rather, it is how the parties function that determines whether a person goes into party politics. Open, welcoming parties where the value of different experiences is clear will continue to be able to recruit new members – young people as well as foreign born and others with a completely renewed political interest. The majority say in particular that it is important for young people to have the opportunity to influence the immediate environment. Yes, influence and the ability to influence are important. The 2014 democracy inquiry is currently being prepared in the Government Office. The Government also proposes in the 2017 spring change bid that extra funding be provided to the youth and civil society authorities to prepare for school elections in connection with the 2018 elections and the 2019 European Parliament elections. In the report on electoral issues that we decided on in this House less than three months ago, I had a reservation. At the time, I thought it would be a good idea for the government to give priority to the work on the democracy inquiry's proposal to make experiments with the right to vote from 16 years in municipal elections, precisely in order to give young people the opportunity to influence, to take advantage of the commitment that exists and to increase political activity among young people. The other members of the committee then said that the preparation of the proposals of the Democracy Investigation would be postponed. I note that the majority of the committees now think that young people should have influence in schools and municipalities through local councils, for example. I maintain my view that it would be better if experiments were actually carried out with the right to vote from 16 years in the municipal elections, just as the Democracy Investigation has proposed. With reference to the ongoing work on the proposals of the Democracy Investigation and the focus on school elections that is being made, I cannot see that the announcement that the majority of the KU is now making is necessary. On the proposal for a new municipal law, the KU30 report, I share the government's view and support the proposal submitted to Parliament. However, the majority of committees have chosen to present two announcements here. One I'm on and one I'm not. I therefore support my reservation No 6 in the KU30. This concerns the announcement that the programme adopted by the City Council with objectives and guidelines for the activities of private operators should also cover self-employed activities. In the bill, the Government emphasises that the municipalities and county councils within their own areas must ensure that the activities are conducted in accordance with the objectives and guidelines set by the council and the regulations applicable to the operations. This also applies when the care of municipal matters under the Local Government Act has been handed over to someone else. Thus, municipalities and county councils already have a follow-up responsibility for all activities. Several consultation bodies – both large county councils, such as Stockholm County Council, and small municipalities, for which Degerfors – also point out the extra administrative work this entails for an activity they already have a follow-up responsibility for. The majority argue that it is of great value that the operations are handled in an equivalent way whether they are conducted in their own or private direction, but there is in fact a large difference between private operations and self-directing. In its own operations, the public already has total transparency. It is open, the economy can be fully audited and all employees enjoy full disclosure protection. Municipalities and county councils can, if they want, use the programme for objectives and guidelines as a tool for governance, for example, for monitoring their own operations. However, I share the government's view that it is unnecessary to force municipalities that may not even use private operators to develop such extra programmes beyond the objectives and guidelines they already have. Municipalities and county councils already have a follow-up responsibility for all their own operations, in accordance with the council's decision. Therefore, I would like to ask you to accept reservation 6.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-617	Mr President, I would like to Today's municipal law has been in place since 1991. Since then, the world has changed and we have changed with it. The Municipal Act has also been amended a number of times, which – I would say – has led to its transparency being lost for a long time. There is therefore a great need for modernisation of the Local Government Act, and the proposal is that a completely new law should therefore be adopted in order for municipalities and county councils to have a clearer and more effective framework. A stable framework for municipalities and county councils may sound dry and boring, but it is a necessary condition for us to have stable and democratic governance. It facilitates local democracy and helps to simplify the work between elected representatives and officials through a clear division of responsibilities. It will also give the public and society an opportunity to monitor and review activities in municipalities and county councils. The new law is largely the result of a general clean-up with a partly new structure, a uniform language and a uniform concept. However, it also contains proposals such as the possibility for the municipal council to decide that the board should be able to make decisions on matters relating to the activities of other boards – but not on matters relating to the exercise of authority against individuals or the application of law. It is further made clear that municipalities and county councils can decide to give municipal and county councils the opportunity to be on parental leave, for example. It's not a day too soon, I think. It is also positive that the division of roles between employees and elected representatives should be clarified and that each municipality and county council should have a leading official whose role is determined by the board. Many people with experience in municipal, county or regional councils have certainly considered the role of the audit with a certain scepticism – not because it is not needed, but because it is often given a rather modest role. It is therefore positive that there is now a requirement for the auditors' budget to be prepared by the council bureau and that the experts' assistants should have a clearer role with the right to speak in the council when the audit report is to be examined. Like some of the previous speakers, I hope that Parliament will support the committee in examining the issue of introducing a regime whereby substitutes on municipal boards, committees or committees will belong to the same party as the outgoing member. Today's order may in many cases affect our smaller parties, who, suddenly at the time of their resignation, can see their perhaps only place on the board lost to another party. In terms of governance and monitoring of municipal activities, it is for us who think that activities should be reviewed and monitored equally strictly regardless of whether the performer is municipal or private, especially welcome that the committee, in addition to the Left Party, proposes that the Riksdag agrees with the Alliance's request that the Government should return to the Riksdag with a legislative proposal that requires the council to adopt a programme of objectives and guidelines for private operators as well as for activities conducted in its own right. This is how we get an effective and fair system where quality is the governance – not the organisational form of the performer. We should increase interest in politics and people's willingness to participate in political work as elected representatives is an issue that engages us here, both as party active and as members of the KU. Democracy is based precisely on people's commitment and participation. When people don't feel that politics touches or touches them, don't know how to approach it or can't get involved because life simply can't be arranged so that it fits – then we as democracy have big problems. Much of the problems we, who are already active, and the parties themselves, must carefully consider and find appropriate answers to, but the answers must also come from the state level. It is therefore gratifying that the committee is now asking the government to return to Parliament with proposals on how to design the positions of trust so that more people can and want to participate actively in the work of democracy. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to call for the Liberal Amendment No 4 to be approved on a municipal and regional upgrading of competence on LGBT issues in the welfare sector. There is still a great and deep ignorance among many who work in health care, school and care for how to treat homosexuals, bisexuals and transgender people. This is an ignorance that still exists in many parts of the country, despite the measures already taken or at least announced. More definitely needs to be done here. Otherwise, Mr President, I support the proposals contained in the reports.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-631	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the KU17 and the KU30 together in this round. With regard to the KU30, I would like to highlight two points. One is that together, in agreement, we have addressed an announcement to the government to review the arrangement for the appointment of substitutes on boards, boards and committees, so that it becomes a representative of the same party – and nothing else – who jumps in. We also have, as on the Left Party, a unanimous announcement that the government should return to Parliament with a legislative proposal that obliges the council to adopt a programme of goals and guidelines for private performers to include activities conducted in its own direction. As far as the KU17 is concerned, I welcome a very fundamental and important wording in an announcement. The Alliance Movement 2015/ 16:2496 first called for measures to change the design of the trust position so that more people are attracted to it. It also deals with new recruitment of elected representatives and increased opportunities for young people to participate actively in the democratic process. This fell on everyone's lips – here too, with the exception of the Left Party – and there was a announcement that the government should come back with proposals on how to design positions of trust so that more people are attracted to political engagement, that obstacles to recruitment are reduced and that young people can be given increased opportunities to participate actively in the democratic process. This is the last of my six speeches today and also the last for this Parliamentary meeting. I would like to highlight the principled basis for democracy, which makes it possible for me and many others to get involved at all. It would be nice to have said that before the summer may also break in for Members of Parliament. I borrow words from the alliance movement that was the basis for this announcement. As far as the essence of democracy is concerned, Mr President, we do not claim that democracy as a form of government would be without shortcomings and disadvantages, that democratic decisions would automatically be the wisest or that the democratic decision-making process would be the fastest or most effective. Yet democracy is unmatched and inalienable, according to Sir Winston Churchill's familiar words that no one claims that democracy is perfect or omniscient. Churchill went on to point out that, in fact, it has been said that democracy is the worst form of government, excluding all other forms of governance that have been tried time after time. Many attempts have been made to determine the essence of democracy. Especially burning was the question of the essence of democracy in Europe after the peace in 1945. This was after the gigantic struggle of the Second World War between communism, Nazism and fascism on the one hand and democracy on the other. The Danish political scientist and professor of theology Hal Koch in his now classic book Hvad your democracy, from 1945, points out the conversation as the core of democracy. He writes that the essence of democracy is determined by the conversation – the negotiation – of mutual respect and understanding and of the resulting emerging interest in the whole. Koch goes on to say that democracy is not in itself finished. It is not a victory that is won but a struggle that is constantly going on. It is not once a result, but a task to be solved constantly. Above all, says Koch, it is not a doctrine that can be acquired or changed in a flash. It's a way of thinking. It is a form of life that is first acquired by living it in personal, private life and in relation to family and neighbors, then in relation to a larger circle, in relation to countrymen, and finally in relation to other nations. Hal Koch concluded that democracy is not self-evident. It must be reclaimed by every generation. The moral foundation of democracy is formed and shaped in the social contexts that shape a society. Civil society with the home and family, school, associations, churches, organisations and peoples' movements is of paramount importance. A democratic state depends on the existence of a high-value society with the living and conscious moral perceptions of individuals and groups and on the fact that the moral perceptions that exist there provide the basis and support for democracy. It is also essential to encourage and strengthen citizens' own democratic responsibility. Compliance with democratic decisions and compliance with the law are a prerequisite for a functioning democratic society. The school has a great responsibility to prepare the growing citizens for participation in democracy. This requires the development of pupils' knowledge of democracy. School must be a democratic environment that allows different opinions and shows how disagreement can be dealt with constructively. Municipal democracy requires municipal autonomy. The municipal self-government must be strong and clearly regulated in the Constitution. Through involvement and participation in local work, citizens have the opportunity to both gain knowledge and experience in a wider context. The government's portal clause points out the municipal self-government as a means of realising democracy. A real municipal autonomy is a central democratic instrument, and it requires a strong legal competence for municipalities to exercise it. We believe that a lack of and a threat to democracy is the lack of knowledge of the citizens about the political process, the current political decisions and the political options that exist. Political general education is very uneven. A prerequisite for maintaining respect for the principle of one person, one vote, where each vote weighs equally, is that voters are informed about the election and its options. The lack of information applies not only to elections but much more to how citizens can influence the democratic process between elections. The difference is great between interest organisations and companies who know to influence a decision early in the process in the parliamentary committees, before the parties' congresses, in investigations and through direct contacts with the ministries, and on the other hand the upset citizen who gathers into an improvised e-mail or facebook post the week before a decision is to be made in the Riksdag – not to mention the citizens who may be content to note a decision that affects their everyday life in the news the next day. Not only does the lack of information on the political options and decisions and the lack of awareness of the political decision-making process weaken democracy, but also the geographical and cultural distance from the political decision-making process. Most citizens have probably never visited us here in the Riksdag or the Municipal Council's Session Hall. Perhaps they have not spoken to any elected representative in his capacity as elected representative. The vast majority may not be able to name more than a few politicians alongside the party leaders. Visiting a politician, lifting the telephone and writing letters can be an insurmountable obstacle, and you may be content to complain at the kitchen table and among some colleagues. That is why we want to highlight your man in Congress, the importance of representative democracy in which we each represent the people who give us confidence. That is how we build democracy, and so we preserve it for the next generation.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-654	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposals in both reports that we are debating today to be approved. The municipal self-government is an important foundation in Swedish democracy. The fact that as much as possible is close to people by decision is important. Often people are very involved in local issues that are close to them. During my 20 years as municipal councillor, I met many angry, dissatisfied, satisfied and driving citizens. It's real politics. It's nerve and proximity. Sometimes I can feel that it is much more difficult to have democracy as alive from a national point of view as it is in the municipal sphere. The first municipal laws are from the 1860s. It defines the municipality as an association with compulsory membership for common purposes. I think that the image of the municipality as an association where you are a member is very nice. But for this to work, democracy, just as Tuve Skånberg was at work, must always be reclaimed, and then the legislation must also be modernised. Today's legislation is 25 years old. It came before digitalisation and equality between men and women, before taking the big steps they have made today. It is also clear that there is no regulation in the legislation of the division of roles between officials and politicians. Of course, it is obvious that municipal councillors should be able to take parental leave. It goes without saying that there is a need to reflect on the division of roles between politicians and officials, and this has been regulated in the new Local Government Act. Otherwise, the new Local Government Act does not contain major revolutionary proposals. There were in the investigations that preceded the bill some proposals that were very radical, for example on majority rule. In the Swedish municipalities, a general government has been formally seen. I think it is a rather fine form and that there is a certain point in the fact that those who take over at a majority change in a municipality have been involved in seeing how matters are handled, how an administration is managed and other things. It is better for the citizens that a new majority is well prepared, and it is through the formal assembly board. In this way, the opposition will also be better informed than it would be in a form in which the affairs were actually only transparent in connection with the council meetings. I therefore think that this somewhat cowardly proposal for the modernisation of the municipal law is exactly the right one. It is a cautious reform of the basic document for Swedish municipal democracy. When I listened to Jonas Millard, I was very perplexed about what is the role of legislation. Is it the Swedish legislation that will ensure that parties prepare suitable representatives who are eligible for election before elections? When I have been in the election committee work in my party, we have cynically said that people must at least be whole and clean. Is it to be regulated? Is it not the responsibility of the parties to ensure that the candidates they nominate are eligible, that they are able to represent the people? Should the Riksdag decide on the internal processes of the parties? I thought it was a party's responsibility to bring out representatives who are appropriate and sufficient representatives who do not drop out or have committed crimes and therefore have to give up their seat after a hot newspaper debate, so that people who have not even been included on lists that citizens have been able to take a stand on. I think it runs counter to everything that popular rule is. It is not the parties who should elect representatives; it is the voters in the elections who should do so. The responsibility of the parties is to ensure that you have candidates that you can stand for. Then all parties can make mistakes, absolutely. It must be possible to recognise and take the consequences of this as a party. But we cannot regulate the internal lives of the parties. Each party has responsibility for that.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-664	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hans Ekström, for the pass! I think we'll have to sort things out. I do not know whether Mr Ekström really listened to what I said in my speech. But I think me and Hans can agree that it happens that a elected politician drops out. Someone can bli a political savage. In the event of this, we think it would be a reasonable order for one person to be appointed also between the elections. It is not a question of detailed regulation from the Riksdag which representatives of the various political parties appoint to the council. That idea is absurd. But the question is, who is it today who loses or in any way would benefit from the fact that there are empty chairs around the council. It can be discussed in terms of political parties' responsibility. I agree with that and believe that this is an important starting point and principle. However, it is ultimately the voters who lose out on the fact that their votes do not count, should there be empty seats. That is why we believe that this would be a good order both for those who have voted and, in general, for democracy as well.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-668	Mr President, I would like to I think that the concept of popular choice is sufficient. If you're elected, you're elected, not elected. If the electorate has not elected one in a general election, then one cannot reasonably be elected. I think that democracy should be based on the fact that you are elected by the people, and the responsibility of the party is then to set up candidates you can stand for. Then mistakes can happen, and then the party and the voters who voted for it will probably have to bear the consequences of this. I do not think that we can give the parties the right to override the people's elections on election day.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-670	Mr President, I would like to Both I and Hans are surely fully aware of this whole problem, which after all exists. But, as has been said, it is very difficult for political parties in many parts of the country, certainly also for the Social Democrats, to ensure that all seats are filled. Another aspect of this is what Hans talks a lot about – being elected. Of course, I support this principle; it is a system that we should basically protect. But we also know what it looks like. We can have ballot papers with a twenty or thirty names, and in the past we have had a system where you can write to names. We may have a person who may not even have been checked, but he is also by definition elected. But is he really? He's been on a ballot, but maybe no one's checked him at all. What is most important for democracy – that the chair is empty or that we can actually appoint a person who can stand up for the voters' vote? I think the latter is more important, and I think that is an opinion that Mr Hans should consider.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-673	Mr President, I would like to I'm not going to consider the concept of elected people. If you're elected by the people, you're elected by the people, not by the party. I would like to wish Mr President and everyone in this House a happy summer!
i-546dbb42a99fb610-675	Mr President, I would like to Much has been said about the new municipal law. It has a few years on its neck, and during the 25 years it has changed 50 times. So it is clear that a review of it was needed. Everyone who has spoken about this has raised what we think is important and the announcements we have made. I would like to say a few words about the obligation for the council to adopt a programme of objectives and guidelines for private performers– it should also cover what is carried out in its own right. What is run in its own right, which the municipality has procured, does not receive more money than the public service receives. So I think we should turn around a little bit about profits in welfare, which are aimed at private performers. I am thinking of perhaps talking about losses in public sector welfare; perhaps that is what should be reviewed. When there are losses in a company, the first thing to do is to look at what has happened and why the budget has not been kept. I think it is a very good proposal that we have made and we are in favour of it in its entirety. A small part of this is that the notice boards should become web-based – we don't have any problems with that at all. But the web is not really expanded everywhere in Sweden, and I can imagine that a group of people my age, 65 plus, likes to look in their daily newspaper and read the little item. Today it's the council – you feel involved and read the errands. But you may not be able to fully follow the digital. I think that this should be considered and considered. Not everyone is watching the web, but they are reading their local newspaper from the interior of Sweden, northern Norrland or the southernmost latitudes. I also think that this with the auditors is important. Surely we have all been in congregations where we have received audit reports, read them and said yes, it was. I therefore think that it is extremely important to speak in the council and that the members of the council should ask questions. I think it would also have been necessary to follow up the audit reports. This seems to me to be a shortcoming today in many places. You take the report in your hand, and it's added to the file. As far as local and regional issues are concerned, there are two alliance movements that we have actually rejected. One is that the Government has commissioned the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency to review the conditions for exceptions to the localisation principle in broadband roll-out and the other that extensive work is already being done to increase the number of safe havens. What a sanctuary is, perhaps, not everyone who listens to this knows. The municipalities offer cultural workers from other countries who cannot carry out their activities in the country because of persecution a sanctuary in a Swedish municipality for one or two years. I think I am content with this, because everything has been said. Mr Agneta may put an end to this debate, and I wish the President a pleasant summer! Everyone else I've already wanted a nice summer.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-686	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament. It's nice to have a minister in the last KU debate too – it's not that often we have it when we debate. We are now debating, on the one hand, the KU17, a motion report from the last year's general exercise, and, on the other hand, the KU30, a slightly thicker report based on the government proposal. In fact, I would have had two more books to show which eminent investigation was behind the government proposal A new communication. In other words, it is a solid basis for today's debate and reports. I'll start by saying just a few words about the KU17. There are a few announcements, but there could actually have been another one. That was very close, because we, the government parties, are in fact fully in agreement with the alliance parties on paragraph 3 of the KU17, with the exception of the location principle for broadband roll-out. For a very long time, it has been a problem that municipalities can only build broadband within the municipality. In the case of cross-border broadband roll-out, nothing can be done. The government has for a long time been trying to find different ways for municipalities to buy up from each other and the like. On Thursday 8 June, the Government decided to give the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency two mandates: to identify barriers and make proposals for broadband roll-out and to review the role of municipalities in terms of what an exception to the localisation principle could look like. This is due to be completed by the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency on 30 June 2018, so it feels like it is very good that we agree. I would like to pay tribute to the alliance parties on these issues. Back to KU30. Historically, as Hans Ekström said, the Swedish municipalities were given their role through the municipal regulations of 1862. The municipalities then became independent legal persons, and the county councils were created as a new organisation alongside cities and county councils. Already then, in 1862, there was a requirement to appoint elected auditors who would give their opinion on discharge. The current Local Government Act entered into force in 1992. There's been a lot of people in here. During these 25 years, there have been many changes in the Local Government Act, but society has also undergone major changes. Urbanisation, technological development, globalisation and also EU membership place great demands on municipal activities. The political governance of the municipalities has also changed a lot, and many new small local parties have emerged. More and more municipalities and county councils are governed by large coalitions and have an unclear parliamentary situation. New governance models have become more common, and targets and performance management are increasingly applied instead of the previous detailed management of municipal activities. This in itself gives the auditors and internal audit a more active role. A larger part of the business is now run by private operators. As more procurement, a vtal, control systems and complex IT environment are needed in parallel with the addition of new legislation with new requirements, the need for specialist skills at municipal level increases. The report describes municipal activities as follows: Municipalities and county councils have several different roles. They are responsible for central welfare services, public authorities, community builders, employers, purchasers and democratic arenas for various forms of decision-making. This is what the new Local Government Act will contribute to – that these different roles can be dealt with effectively and legally. The new law has to some extent been given a new structure. It is a modernised and more uniform language and conceptualisation. The starting points for the assignment shall be that the Municipal Act shall continue to be a framework law. The investigation has a citizen's perspective, and that is what legislation looks like. Among the concrete changes proposed, there is an opportunity for the municipal board or the regional or county council to also decide within the area of activity of other boards. However, they cannot take over the exercise of public authority. Just as others have been on the subject, a legal framework is now being made possible for parental leave as a politician. The role and conditions of directors or municipalities, regional or county council directors are clarified. It creates clearer rules for delegations. They say that the municipal bulletin board should be web-based. It must not only be web-based, but the municipalities must, of course, continue to use newspapers and paper as well. The auditors' budget shall be prepared by the council bureau, and the experts' assistants shall have a right to speak in the council. The grounds for review of legality are also clarified. Then, of course, there are a large number of consequential changes to other legislation. The concrete changes that are being made are good, balanced and long-awaited, but I must also pay special tribute to the authors of this product who have really modernised the language in a good way. I support the committee's proposal. Now that I have the honour of concluding the last KU debate in the spring term, I would like to wish Mr President, committee colleagues, the Bureau and, of course, the Minister a really good summer.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-701	Mr President, I would like to Today we are dealing with the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report 2016/ 17:MJU23 A food strategy for Sweden. It is an historic report. Of course, I agree with all of our reservations, but for the time to come, I am in favour of only reservation 70 and otherwise in favour of the report. At last, many said when the food strategy was presented with its four overall objectives. It is a strategy in which the objectives are an agreement between seven of the parliamentary parties. This means that the objectives are firm and clearly targeted. It provides stable and long-term conditions for the food chain to contribute to employment and sustainable growth throughout the country and lays the foundation for future confidence among both entrepreneurs and employees in the food chain. Finally, we Social Democrats also say after many years of fighting for this. The Center Party has previously been the only alliance party that has had the same ambition. Finally, I think the LRF also says. In any case, the President of the LRF, Palle Borgström, expresses himself as follows: He also says that it is an historic decision that all LRF members can be proud of. Sweden has long lacked a coherent food policy. I heard someone say we haven't had anyone since World War II. Others say that we have had no one since EU entry. However, regardless of which of the claims is correct, the strategy is now on Parliament's table today. Here seven of the parliamentary parties show a common will direction for the whole food chain. In the food strategy together with the Swedish maritime strategy with the aim of exploiting the potential of maritime industries, the Swedish export strategy with the aim of increasing exports, the new industrialisation strategy that will strengthen companies' adaptability and competitiveness, a strategy for sustainable consumption that has been developed by the government and the action plans for the four overall objectives that have been or will be decided, there are answers to many of the sports requests that have been presented. Mr President, I would like to The food strategy takes a holistic approach to many of the challenges we face and aims to increase competitiveness throughout the food chain, thereby helping to strengthen growth across the country. The aim of the food strategy is to increase employment, production, exports, innovation and the profitability of food production while achieving national environmental objectives. Food is not something we can opt out of. Today we have a level of self-sufficiency below 50%. Increased food production leads to increased security of supply. Sweden's food exports need to increase. Today, only 20% of our food is exported. If we look at Sweden's total industry we see that 80% is exported. Perhaps this can be explained by the fact that Sweden has long seen itself as an industrial country. Our added value, such as our food safety, our salmonella freedom, our low antibiotic use, our less climate impact and more, can be used in marketing where Sweden becomes the sustainable food country. Our food is of high quality. This gives us competitive advantages. We also need to develop the processing rate and create new products to strengthen competitiveness. Another important factor is a strong local or regional identity in the brand. When the Swedish Food Authority investigated what gave profitability and strong growth, this proved to be one of the success factors. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a fantastic country. We have natural resources that most countries can only dream of and the world's probably cleanest food industry. Swedish ingredients are pure superfood. Instead of using them, however, we import goji berries, bipolars, chia seeds, spirulina, and more from other countries. The supply and sale of this has completely exploded. Superfood was originally a marketing thing for raw materials that have health effects out of the ordinary. Now it is a product category of its own. In Sweden we have potatoes, beetroot, lingonberries, blueberries, oats and broccoli that are nutritionally as good, but it may not be as trendy. Why, then, are these raw materials, which are also much cheaper, less popular? Is there a need for better marketing? We have a strong demand for organic food. However, organic production does not increase in line with demand, but rather we are forced to import in order to meet the needs of consumers. It is not only here in Sweden that the demand for organic food is increasing, but also globally. If we can meet the increased demand, it can contribute to jobs and growth throughout the country while at the same time increasing exports. This overall may increase the profitability of the individual grower. And if we set a target for consumption and production, it can affect development. Mr President, I would like to It is important that we in Sweden have our own plant breeding. It gives us access to varieties that are adapted to our growing conditions and climate change. Domestic plant breeding may also adapt the plants to plant protection products authorised here. Plant breeding, for example, has removed the need to use straw shortening agents. Developed plant breeding that meets the need for suitable local and regional crops for the whole country means a variety of crops. Plant breeding contributes to long-term, sustainable, competitive and resource efficient cultivation throughout the country. Then we do not need to import and bring in crops that require plant protection products that are not allowed in Sweden. A large part of the legislation that Swedish companies have to deal with is decided at EU level. Together with the Nordic and Baltic countries, Sweden has presented 68 concrete proposals for simplified rules for farmers and companies in the EU. This has been supported by many EU countries which highlighted the importance of simplified rules, in particular as regards controls and sanctions. The Center writes in one of its motions that Sweden is way ahead in the work to simplify for companies, but they want more to be done. That's where I agree. Therefore, it feels good that the Government's goal is that rules and processes need to be designed so that, while they are relevant to the activities they cover, they are adapted to the conditions and reality of the companies. The Government therefore considers that it is of great importance that the work to simplify the food chain companies continues to be given high priority. Mr President, I would like to A third of all food produced in the world is thrown away. In Sweden we throw about 28 kg of food per person and pour 26 kg into the sink. Food waste occurs throughout the food chain from cultivation to food industry, shops, restaurants, large kitchens and households. This is a waste of earth's resources – water, soil, energy, labor and capital. The production of the quantity of food discarded each year represents about 2 million tonnes of carbon dioxide. This represents about 3 per cent of total greenhouse gas emissions in Sweden. In order to reduce unnecessarily the amount of food thrown away, awareness of the importance of food waste for the environment needs to be increased. Sweden is committed to meeting the global sustainability goals of halving food waste by 2030. Between 2013 and 2015, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Food Administration and the Swedish Agriculture Agency collaborated in a three-year government mission to reduce food waste. Several efforts were made, not least to increase knowledge. It has now received a new assignment and will develop a national action plan for all actors in Sweden. Today there is a growing interest in creating more sustainable solutions. But to succeed, customers need to change their behaviour, in stores, but also at home in the kitchen. I myself became really aware only when we got extended waste sorting and would also sort food waste. Then it became very clear that much was thrown away unnecessarily. The reason was that much had been bought unnecessarily. The little that is left is easy to sort. I can go straight out and throw the bag of food waste in the barrel. Now there's no leftover food in the residue. Instead, they become biogas, along with the food waste from the rest of the municipal citizens. Mr President, I would like to Sustainable plant protection is a prerequisite for Swedish plant cultivation to stand up in international competition. There should be good availability of plant protection products that can handle the harmful organisms that affect cultivation and minimise the risks and impacts on humans and the environment. In March 2017, the Government decided on a mission to the Swedish Board of Agriculture to establish a new Council for Plant Health. The Plant Health Council currently in place will be strengthened and given an extended mandate. The Swedish Board of Agriculture, in collaboration with the Swedish Chemicals Agency, will establish a secretariat to plan and administer the Council's meetings. The Government, with the Council, wants to create better conditions for increased dialogue between authorities, industry and stakeholder organisations. The Council shall also engage in dialogue and increase knowledge of the social policy implications of the application of the legislation. The mission runs for three years and receives 6 million for implementation. I would like to take this opportunity to wish the President a pleasant summer.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-729	Mr President, I would like to "Our readiness is good," said Prime Minister PerPer-Albin Hansson in his famous speech in the summer of 1939. In retrospect it turned out to be a truth with modification – especially in terms of military capabilities. However, the food supply was secure at that time. We produced enough food to survive. As concerns in our surroundings increase, it is natural that questions of defence, security and preparedness are raised even today. Therefore, in the wake of discussions on the need to increase military defence capabilities, other questions are also raised, such as how long we will last our food supply if the worst happens and we are cut off from the outside world. The truth is that the situation today is worrying. Swedish food production has declined for decades. The basic problem is that for a long time we have eroded the competitiveness of our food producers through high taxes, regulatory constraints and extensive special requirements that make Swedish production unnecessarily expensive. For 25 years we in Sweden have in practice had a policy aimed at reducing our food production. It is high time to reverse that trend. There are many good reasons for us to strive for increased food production in Sweden. Security of supply is just an argument in a long line. Basically, we have good conditions for producing high-quality food here in Sweden. Despite – and perhaps partly thanks to – our northern latitudes, we in parts of the country have very good conditions for crop cultivation. And Swedish meat and other animal products are first class. We are also good at innovation and technology development. Swedish food production is generally environmentally friendly. It would therefore be good in many ways if a larger proportion of the food produced in the world came from Swedish food companies. It also hooks in the UN's Sustainable Development Goals in Agenda 2030, where we in Sweden need to take our responsibility to feed a growing population globally in a sustainable way. Another important argument is the potential for jobs and growth in the food chain. The food industry is today our fourth largest industry. More than 50 000 people work at the processing stage. However, the sector's export share remains small compared to other sectors, and the potential is therefore at least double. And it's about jobs that are mainly located outside the big cities. It's work that comes to the countryside. As I said, there are many arguments that Swedish food production should grow. It was therefore an important step in the right direction when, during the food strategy talks, the Alliance and the government could agree on long-term goals where food production will increase through enhanced competitiveness and improved profitability. We know that this is incredibly important for the sectors concerned. They need to know that there is a long-term view and a broad consensus that food production will increase in Sweden. We have long said from the Moderates that we would like to see a broad agreement. At the same time, we have been clear that it is the content of the agreement that must be good enough. We have made a delimitation in which we agree on the long-term objectives, but I realise that we will have different views on how the objectives are to be achieved, that is, on other parts of the strategy. Perhaps even more so with regard to the concrete action plans and the package of measures. I think that's basically wise. I would like to thank both the government side with Rural Minister Bucht at the head and the alliance colleagues Kristina Yngwe from the Center, Lars Tysklind from the Liberals and Magnus Oscarsson from the Christian Democrats for constructive discussions and for the fact that together we have managed to gather around a future direction that we know means very much to the industries concerned. Having said that, Mr President, I think it is important to emphasise that the agreement on objectives commits itself. It is not enough to say competitiveness, it is also a question of delivering competitiveness. Unfortunately, Mr President, we are forced to note that the government is pursuing a policy in the opposite direction as soon as possible. The government has so far raised or introduced new taxes on jobs and growth by over 40 billion and is planning to introduce more new and raise existing taxes. The Kilometer tax, for example, is a tax from a distance that would hit the industry hard, not least against the green industries, in a large and sparsely populated country like ours. The continued increase in already record fuel taxes is another example. If we are to achieve truly enhanced competitiveness, the whole policy must be turned into a business-friendly direction. Taxes must be reduced, not increased. The rules need to be simpler, not more complicated. Special requirements must be reduced, not more. When it comes to the more specific parts of the food strategy, but also in the action plan that is the government's own tool and that the parliament does not decide on, they contain both good and bad things. The same applies to the package of measures. We want to see a focus on strengthening competitiveness by reducing costs, reducing regulatory burdens, reducing special requirements and strengthening the supply of skills throughout the chain. We want to achieve increased demand for Swedish quality through export promotion measures, clearer requirements in public procurements and increased consumer awareness. We have a wide range of concrete proposals, and I will not explain them all here – they are in our motion – but I will give you some examples. From the Moderates we believe that costs must be reduced, and so we say no to most of the government's tax increases on jobs and growth. Instead, we propose a number of tax incentives, including a higher reduction in the tax on diesel in agriculture, which has been identified as one of the more serious competitive disadvantages. The authorities have an important role to play in supporting companies and facilitating them, but we know that unfortunately it does not always work that way. During the time of the alliance government, several commendable initiatives were taken to reduce the regulatory burden. Unfortunately, we are now receiving regular reports and examples of developments moving in the opposite direction. The fact that the Alliance's call for a general promotion mission to the authorities now seems to have a majority in this House is therefore very positive and sends an important signal to the authorities. In addition, we must tackle the recurring problem of gold-plating, that is, that Swedish authorities overinterpret EU regulations. It has led to a number of competitive disadvantages, including the fact that we have significantly less access to functioning plant protection products than other countries, despite the fact that the regulatory framework is the same in the EU. From the Moderates we want to see a general mission to the authorities that says that when implementing EU directives or implementing EU regulations, the authorities will implement them in a way that provides the best competitive conditions possible for the industries concerned within the framework of the regulatory framework. In the case of plant protection products specifically, the principle of mutual recognition should be used as the main principle, i.e. that funds authorised in other countries should also be used here. We believe that environmental compensation should be performance-based rather than action-based, since it is the results that are important and which measures are best suited can vary on a case-by-case basis. We want to see more effective and uniform food controls and to make it easier to start and run food businesses. The business environment in Sweden must be permitting and affirming. More and more microbreweries, musteries and vineyards are being established in Sweden. It is a development that can contribute to a vibrant countryside with more jobs both in manufacturing and in the tourism industry. We believe that Swedish producers should obviously have the same opportunities for sales at the place of production as in the rest of the EU. We therefore believe that farm sale of alcoholic beverages should be allowed. Mr President, I would like to In its action plan, the Government sets targets for organic production and consumption. We consider this to be bad for a number of reasons. As a matter of principle, we in the Alliance believe that it is consumer demand and not political decisions that should govern, which, moreover, seems to be a clear majority for this House. Moreover, in the opinion of the Moderates, the division between organic and conventional production becomes increasingly irrelevant. Swedish food production in general is already very advanced in the environmental field, and with new technology it is gradually even better. There is therefore no intrinsic value in politically trying to steer more production towards organic, which means lower volumes at higher cost. One problem with organic production is that the volumes are generally lower. This means that an increased proportion of organic production leads to a total reduction in Swedish production, which is therefore contrary to the overall objectives of the food strategy. In addition, nutrient leakage and climate emissions are generally higher from eco-production, which runs counter to several of the environmental objectives. So instead of focusing on support for a specific form of production, the aim should be to further reduce the environmental impact of food production as a whole. The Moderates therefore believe that support for organic production should be phased out and that the coordinating function for organic production that the government is now to establish should instead have the task of ensuring the sustainability of the entire agricultural sector on a scientific basis, not on consumption trends and ideology or focusing on a specific form of production. Mr President, I would like to We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 10. I hope that when we look back at this debate and this decision in 2030, we will be proud to note that it has made a difference. But that also requires the government to steer a policy for better competitive conditions in real life. The common and long-term objectives exist. Now it is up to evidence, for this and for future governments.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-764	Mr President, I would like to Prior to the 2014 elections, Coop examined what the various parties wanted to do to stimulate the production and consumption of organic food. Then the Moderates replied: Through the Alliance's rural programme, we will invest almost SEK 4 billion in support of organic production over the next seven years. The starting point for us is that the food we eat should be healthy and healthy and at the same time reduce the environmental and climate impact of food production. Now the Moderates have turned, so I wonder: How do you want to stimulate organic production now?
i-7HYdVQ9DaceZD8SDR7LocR	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Marianne Pettersson, for the question! As I said at the end of my speech, it is important for us to see how, in general, we can reduce the negative environmental impact that still exists in food production. For us it is actually quite uninteresting if you have a particular label or form of production. That's not what's important. What is important is that we can reduce the environmental impact completely. Swedish food production stands out well, especially in a global perspective, compared to most other countries. If we could produce and export more, then it would be good for the environment and for the climate. One problem with organic production is that the volumes are lower. Consumers have the right to make whatever choice they want. I understand that many consumers choose organically because they perceive it as an easy way to get a label. I would like to emphasise that there are also other labels, and in my opinion they are more comprehensive. The point remains, however. Consumers have the right to make this choice. What I and the Moderates are opposed to is that the government is now saying that it should politically point with the whole hand and set a goal for both organic consumption, which it wants to push up in public, and organic production. Firstly, I think it is reasonable for consumers to pay what it actually costs. Therefore, these aids should be phased out. We believe there is a demand in any case. Secondly, we think that it leads to errors when politics interferes with and governs what the market can do better. Demand can solve this.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-771	Mr President, I would like to There are different perceptions of how good the organic is and how big the outcome will be in the harvests. However, there are good examples that show that you can harvest just as much. It is through the interaction between conventional and organic farming that one constantly learns from each other. It has been shown that cereals can be grown organically that produce as much in outcomes as conventional ones. Then conventional farmers look at this and learn and can perhaps expand their production a little more. This is exactly a win-win concept that we think is absolutely worth looking at. The need to increase organic production is incredibly clear. That is why we want it to increase.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-774	Mr President, I would like to I would like to see the studies referred to here. I can well imagine that there are isolated examples where that is the case. We know that the outcome varies greatly depending on what you produce. However, all studies show that production volumes are generally significantly lower for organic production. This has to be said, though, is a problem – especially when we agree on an objective of increasing total food production. Having said that, I still think that there are many merits with echoes. It's not about saying that echoes wouldn't exist. Consumers have the right to make this choice, and producers should then charge for it. This should be done in a natural way and without artificial contributions from the public. That must be the main principle. An important point from an environmental point of view is that we need to reduce the environmental impact of entire food production. It leads wrong to try to steer towards a single form of production, where the effect of volume losses is not taken into account. After all, we still have to produce the same volumes, or preferably more, if we are to increase our production here and supply a growing population globally. These aspects must then be taken into account. One should not look at the environmental impact in isolation, but this must be seen in relation to how much one can manage to produce. Reducing the environmental impact of agriculture and the whole food chain should be the focus. One problem, to which the government has not responded, remains: a numerical target is set to increase organic production, and it is in direct conflict with the overall objective on which we agree and which we will stick through. I do not think the government responds to how to resolve this contradiction.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-778	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats are of course behind all their reservations, but for time winning, I only ask for reservations 12 on taxes and fees, 21 on the Land Acquisition Act and 61 on public procurement. The Swedish Democrats welcome the government's initiative to develop a Swedish food strategy. Food production has great potential. Green industries employ an estimated 400 000 people in Sweden. Swedish food has an estimated export value equivalent to SEK 70 billion. On the other hand, we believe that it is of the utmost importance that many of the proposals of the Competitiveness Study become a reality within the national food strategy. The stakes are high. Continued crayfish production for Swedish agriculture, as we have seen since EU entry, could lead to 20 000 jobs lost directly linked to the industry and an equal number of jobs lost in sectors indirectly affected by the development of green industries. In modern times, Swedish governments have focused primarily on ensuring food competition and global food safety. This has caused the so-called self-sufficiency to suffer. We find it unacceptable that the level of self-sufficiency for food has now fallen to below 50% – or actually to no percent at all – if you read reports in, for example, ATL. The level of self-sufficiency of food needs to be increased, in particular to ensure greater sustainability in the event of national and international crises. A robust civil society with a well-functioning Swedish food production should therefore be seen as part of Sweden's total defence. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that the food strategy needs to set measurable production targets for increased food production over time. The long-term goal must be to reach 100% self-sufficiency for those foods that are possible to produce traditionally and naturally in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to For us, rural areas are about providing good conditions for people who live, live and work there. Having said that, we cannot stress enough that Sweden is a whole, and we believe that what is good for the countryside is good for the whole country. It has become more difficult to live and make a living in the countryside. Many people feel compelled to go to the larger cities, even though they want nothing more than to stay in their home country. A Swedish democratic rural policy is based on profitable agriculture and forestry. These industries generate entrepreneurship, employment and tax revenue in rural areas. A viable agriculture is also a prerequisite for a diverse cultural landscape and much of our biodiversity. However, open and vibrant landscapes cannot be legislated. They only exist if it is profitable to farm and keep animals. Swedish farmers compete in the same market as their Danish neighbours, and we believe that it is reasonable that the conditions for competition regarding the level of taxation on fuels are similar. The tax on diesel for agriculture and forestry must therefore be reduced. In our last two budgets, we have proposed tax cuts to the same level as in Denmark – about 60 øre per litre – so that Swedish farmers will have better opportunities to compete in the same market as their Danish neighbours. This is a relatively large but necessary reform which we believe will lead to more farms being able to continue to operate and develop in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to For the Swedish Democrats, rural and rural areas are about providing good conditions for people who live, live and work there. Generation shifts and business transfers within agricultural enterprises will increasingly involve major capital inputs. The trend is also moving towards new types of owners and completely different requirements in order to transfer and invest in agricultural and horticultural businesses. In this context, the design of land acquisition and lease legislation is important. Today's land acquisition law is assessed by the government to have an inhibitory effect on the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture by making it more difficult for external capital supply. The Government therefore intends to investigate amendments to the Land Acquisition Act in order to facilitate the acquisition of agricultural land by limited liability companies. We are opposed to such a change in the Land Acquisition Act. The restrictions on ownership imposed by the Land Acquisitions Act have served as a balance between different categories of ownership and have also benefited settlement and employment in sparsely populated rural areas. We are very concerned that a change in the Land Acquisition Act would lead to difficulties for young people, for example, to assert themselves against companies when buying real estate. We therefore believe that the Land Acquisition Act should neither be amended nor reviewed. Instead, the Swedish democrats want to focus on how agriculture will gain greater access to venture capital and explore how we can facilitate generation shifts and entry into agriculture without making dramatic changes to the Land Acquisition Act. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to mention fish farming and its possibilities in Sweden. Sweden has good conditions for food fish production, especially in the northern part of the country, where the nutrient-poor regulatory warehouses are located. Fish farming in these waters can be a means of restoring viable ecosystems, as fish farming feeds these depleted waters. Food fish production and further processing also have positive regional policy effects and important jobs in rural areas. The establishment of new fish farms must be facilitated, and the preconditions for red tape and regulatory permission for existing and new farms to develop and expand must be improved. Mr President, I would like to Today, something as natural as agriculture is classified as environmentally dangerous according to the Environmental Code and is treated as mining and other industries. This creates a feeling of mistrust among farmers. It is not just a matter of terminology; by classifying the business as environmentally dangerous, the attitude of government officials risks being adversely affected, so that the focus is on looking for errors. Instead, we in the Swedish Democrats want to classify agriculture as environmentally friendly activities, which would simplify the processing of environmental permits and the notification of livestock production. In addition, we want to see simpler testing of animal housing. The government should initiate such a change, which would simplify the management of environmental permits and notification, for example, regarding the expansion of livestock production. Farming must be made easier without abandoning high environmental ambitions. It is about seeing the system as a whole. The authorities must strive more for long-term and goal-driven regulations with more general procedures and general advice and steer away from detail control and call-out adjustment. Mr President, I would like to It is in harmony with our ambitions regarding animal welfare that cows should graze outdoors in summer time, but we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that this is a competitive disadvantage for, for example, dairy farmers, as increased work and costs are added. The Swedish democrats want to compensate Swedish farmers for these additional costs caused by higher requirements in animal welfare, among other things by introducing an animal welfare allowance for dairy cows on pasture. We also welcome the fact that the industries develop their own animal care programmes and an opportunity to develop animal welfare. Today, many municipalities and county councils buy food that is illegal to produce in Sweden according to current environmental and animal welfare legislation. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that all food purchased in public should be produced in accordance with current Swedish environmental and animal welfare legislation whenever possible. Swedish consumers are showing an increasing willingness to buy safe and secure Swedish-produced food. At the same time, we see an increased demand for organic food, which we believe should primarily be met with Swedish-produced products. With such a policy, we support a viable Swedish agriculture that produces high-quality and safe food for Swedish consumers. Mr President, I would like to However, we do not believe that quantitative targets for organic production and consumption are needed. Increased organic production must be based primarily on reasonable competitive conditions and predictable rules, so that farmers, trade and consumers themselves develop the ecological concept without the EU's bureaucratic tentacles. Here we can question the government's respect for the recognition given by the Committee on Environment and Agriculture to ecological objectives. The Government and Rural Minister Bucht choose to go forward with this policy despite the announcement and commission the Swedish Board of Agriculture to establish a coordination function for organic food. The coordination function shall, among other things, develop an action plan and milestones to achieve the orientation objectives set by the Government for organic production and public consumption. Mr President, I would like to A Swedish democratic rural policy favours a viable Swedish agriculture that produces high-quality and safe food for the benefit of Swedish rural areas and Swedish consumers. We find it gratifying that there is now a food strategy, but Swedish farmers need more than beautiful words. Better conditions and lower taxes are needed to promote entrepreneurship and rural development. This is how we build Sweden strong again.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-802	Mr President, I would like to This weekend I saw the famous documentary Last Harvest. It felt like a good starting point for today's debate on a food strategy for Sweden. For those of you who haven't seen it, and I would urge you to do so, it's about our least noted natural resource: the tiny thin layer of soil in which we grow all over the world. It is a threatened resource for several reasons. We build roads, houses and shopping centers on valuable arable land, and we impoverish it with fertilizers and pesticides that kill not only pests but also other important organisms. The soil has become something you put the plants into, a substance without life without the essential minerals and micronutrients for us, said an American researcher in the documentary. In the United States, agriculture is huge, so is the use of fertilizers and pesticides. Here a third of the world's wheat is grown in large monocultures – wheat, like many other things we are growing today, does not provide the nutrition we need to the same extent as before. What we have on the plate contains more carbohydrates today, but less of other important substances we need. We eat twice as much fruit and vegetables today as we did in the 1970s, but we get less minerals and important trace elements," said Kristina Belfrage, a Swedish food researcher, in the documentary. The last harvest is a thought-provoking and frightening documentary. Where are we going when the food we grow no longer gives us what our bodies need, when we no longer grow in harmony with nature but against it? But, Mr President, in comparison with industrial agriculture in the United States and, for that matter, much of the agriculture carried out in other EU countries is our Swedish agriculture more sustainable in many ways. Our conventional farming uses less fertilizers and pesticides. We have the lowest antibiotic use in Europe. We have good food safety and higher animal welfare requirements than the rest of the EU, and we have the second highest proportion of organic farming. There are many reasons why it is important to protect Swedish food production. Mr President, I would like to A great potential for increasing Swedish food production is precisely about organic farming and the increased demand for organic food in Sweden and the rest of the world. A lot has happened here in only 20 years. I remember when I and a father of young children tried to get our local trader back home in Högboda to start selling organic products in the store in the 90's. It didn't go well. But he agreed to bring home a box of Kravlabelled bananas if we promised to buy the whole box together. For there were no other Boda families who would be stupid enough to buy the more expensive bananas, he said. Today, there are no bananas other than Kravbananas in our store. The deal is also Requirements certified and offers at least one eco-option in all product segments. That's great. Progress has gone in the right direction. But much of the organic food sold in our stores today comes from other countries. There is a shortage of many eco-produced goods in Sweden. Production does not follow demand. This is one reason why our government has already acted to increase organic farming in Sweden. This has been done, among other things, by increasing support under the rural development programme by 200 million for the conversion to organic farming and by introducing new objectives for organic production and consumption into the action plan, which together with the proposal constitutes the food strategy. The targets mean that 30 per cent of Swedish agricultural land will consist of certified organic agricultural land in 2030 and that 60 per cent of public food consumption via public procurement will consist of certified organic products in 2030. Today the corresponding figures are 17 and 30. At last week's meeting, the Government decided to commission the Swedish Board of Agriculture to establish a coordination function for organic food. It's a long-awaited decision. In this work, the Swedish Board of Agriculture will work with other relevant authorities, representatives of companies and organisations throughout the food chain and consumer and environmental organisations. The coordination function shall also develop an action plan and milestones to achieve the orientation objectives set by the Government for organic production and public consumption. The government has also sent with a bag of money. Mr President, I would like to All parties agree on the overall objective and the three strategic objectives of the food strategy that we are now debating. This is a good start for a better consensus on Swedish food production. We agree, among other things, that total food production should increase at the same time as the relevant environmental objectives should be achieved. There are many environmental objectives associated with our food production. The objectives A rich agricultural landscape, A rich plant and animal life, Limited climate impact, Mylling wetlands, Sea in balance as well as living coast and archipelago, Living lakes and streams, Non-toxic environment and Good quality groundwater are all environmental objectives that are related to what we eat and drink. The low level of groundwater in the country is a matter of great concern. According to SGU, only 14 of the country reported 290 municipalities that they have normal groundwater levels. The rest has lower levels than normal. The Government presented a budget effort of SEK 200 million this weekend to prevent drought and to deepen the mapping of our groundwater resources. Most of the money will be invested in strengthening the landscape's own ability to buffer and balance water flows, increase the addition to groundwater and increase water purification. This should be done by increasing the restoration and construction of wetlands. Up to a quarter of Sweden's original wetlands have disappeared. The largest share has been lost in the plains of southern Sweden. In Skåne and Mälardalen there is only about one tenth left of the original wetland area. The majority of remaining wetlands are also affected to varying degrees by human intervention. Damaged wetlands have a lower capacity to store and clean water. Delaying water is important to replenish the surface and groundwater systems but also has other positive effects. Wetlands restored and renovated contribute to biodiversity, climate and to reducing eutrophication. Water is one of our most important foods. For us it is obvious that there will be plenty of fresh water from the tap when we screw. But it is also an asset we must use with responsibility and caution. The government's budgetary effort is an important measure in line with this. Mr President, I would like to As I said, our own environmental objectives are important for our national food strategy. This, of course, is also the UN's global sustainability goal by 2030. One of the UN targets is to ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns, among other things by halving food waste in Sweden and the world. Ensuring food security in the world is not just about increasing food production. It is also – or indeed more – about the food produced being distributed fairly and being eaten and not thrown away. It is also, of course, a question of eating more cereals, beans and vegetables instead of using it for animal feed. But there are many other things in the UN's sustainability goals that it is important that we implement in Sweden. These include the introduction of agricultural practices that better contribute to the maintenance of ecosystems. These are methods that strengthen the ability to adapt to climate change, extreme weather conditions, droughts, floods and other disasters and gradually improve soil and soil quality. It is also important, according to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, to maintain the genetic diversity of seeds, cultivated plants, farmed animals and domestic animals. In its action plan, our government has already started to work on this by increasing support for the Program for Cultivated Diversity, Pom, for the re-introduction of older Swedish plant varieties on the market. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is today far from self-sufficient in food. This is largely due to the fact that most of the inputs currently used in agriculture, such as fertilizers and fossil fuels, are not produced in Sweden. This means that we have a low level of emergency preparedness. But we have all the conditions to have a higher emergency preparedness if we switch to renewable fuels, such as biogas that can be produced from manure and harvest residues, and by replacing inputs to things that can be produced in Sweden, manure instead of fertilizer, Swedish seed instead of seeds from multinational companies. Increased sustainable food production in Sweden is also about improved crisis preparedness. To conclude, Mr President, I naturally support the Green Party's reservations in the report. However, for the sake of time, I would simply like to endorse reservation 70 on ecological production and consumption objectives.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-825	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Stina Bergström, for the speech. I would like to touch on the issue that we have touched on before about the ecological issue and which Stina Bergström raises in the debate. I have to ask the same question as I did to the Social Democrats earlier. It is about the volume of production and the objectives. We agree on the overall objectives. There are seven parties, and even eight parties, which support the overall long-term objectives of the food strategy. There we say that Swedish food production will increase overall. Stina Bergström then says that it is excellent if the government also has an objective for organic production. That is 30% on agricultural land and 60% on public consumption. I still have to ask the question: how does Stina Bergström intend this to happen? In fact, production volumes are significantly lower in organic production than they are in what is considered conventional production. I must also ask Stina Bergström: why is it not important to solve environmental problems overall? This can be done if one takes a broader approach and looks with a sustainability perspective at food production as a whole and strives to reduce the environmental impact of the entire food chain. Now the government is moving towards increasing the proportion of organically. This leads to overall lower production volumes. Then the environmental impact will increase and we will have to import more instead of exporting more. Everything else equal means higher environmental impact. It also means that we do not accept our responsibility for the UN's 2030 Agenda. This applies, for example, to No 2, which says that we should reduce hunger. Then we need to produce more food and not less. How is it connected, Stina Bergström and the Green Party?
i-546dbb42a99fb610-831	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Jonas Gjörtler, for the many questions. I'll try to sort them out on the two-minute speaking time I have. To begin with, it is about how much less volume you get in organic farming. There are various research results on it. If you look at what most of the more renowned research says, you can see that in high-increased countries, it is about 80 percent for the organic compared to conventional cultivation. That is what it is about in our countries. But if we look at the rest of the world, if we are going to talk about world hunger, we see that in other parts of the world farmers are now increasingly moving to organic instead of buying in expensive pesticides and fertilizers. They will then also have greater harvests and an opportunity to sell food on the local market and can thus feed more people. I think it's a very good thing. We also see, as I said in my speech, that there is a lack of much echo food today. We import a lot from Denmark, for example, and that is a good thing. It is good that the Danish Government and the Danish politicians have understood that it is important to support eco-production because there is a great craving for eco-food from consumers. Then I think it's good if we can produce this food in Sweden and also have this goal. Of course, I think it is important to reduce the environmental impact widely and throughout the chain – in all kinds of agriculture. But I believe that the major development of organic farming that we have in Sweden has also brought with it conventional agriculture so that it is better environmentally. Surely Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler agrees with me that we are seeing in Sweden?
i-546dbb42a99fb610-837	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Swedish agriculture is at the forefront. The whole of Swedish food production is at the forefront in terms of environmental impact, animal welfare and other things. We are a long way ahead in this regard. That is also one of the important points here. What is called conventional production is able to balance this with reducing the environmental impact while delivering large volumes. New technologies will make this even better. I think that Stina Bergström and I really agree that it is great if we can reduce the need to use plant protection products and fertilizers. New technologies will make this possible. It is a question of robotics, which makes it even clearer than it is today with precision that efforts can be targeted where they are needed. We can then reduce from our already record low levels when it comes to the use of both plant protection and fertiliser. I therefore believe that technology will solve a lot of this, but it is important not to have a religious ideological view where it is said that we must not use anything at all. Then it will hit the volumes. It is very possible that there are different figures in different countries in terms of how much they produce. But now we are in Sweden, and we are discussing a Swedish food strategy where we want to increase production here. According to a compilation by SCB and the Swedish Board of Agriculture, it is a fact that grain production in organic production is between 45 and 70 per cent of conventional production. For food potatoes, for example, it is under half — about 49 percent. These are the figures we have to relate to. I find it very difficult to understand that the Green Party does not see this as a problem. We in Sweden, who are good at producing environmentally friendly food, should make an effort to produce even more while reducing our environmental impact. Why is the Green Party against it?
i-546dbb42a99fb610-843	Mr President, I would like to I would not say that I have an almost religious view of organic. The Green Party believes that as much as we can only reduce the use of dangerous chemicals in our environment. It's a lot about what we eat. That's how we get a lot. It is not just the volumes that count when we grow, but the quality of what we grow. How can we grow vegetables that give us more important substances without eating so much? I do not know if Jonas Gjörtler listened to what I said in my speech: we eat twice as much fruit and vegetables today, but we get less of what we need than we got in the 70s. Then I think something has gone wrong in our production. Some are to ensure that we get functioning ecosystems and that we get soils that really contain all the nutrients that we need and that the vegetables can take up. Again: I have seen different numbers, and I know that there are different research groups. At SLU, for example, there are a couple of emeritus professors who are much to say that organic farming is no better than conventional farming. They focus very much on volumes. You can keep on talking about back and forth. However, if we now look at the use of chemicals, we must surely agree that it is much smaller in organic farming. This also applies to nutrient losses in our watercourses and so on; there too we have a positive development. We therefore have this in addition to all the other environmental objectives that organic farming is better at promoting. Since it is an important part of the food strategy that we should achieve our relevant environmental objectives, I also think it is good that we have targets for organic food production.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-848	Mr President, I would like to A couple of times in your life, you need a priest, a cop, a lawyer and a doctor. But every day, three times a day, you need a farmer. This statement by an American farmer and food writer points to some important things: how vital food is to us, but also how little we really think about those who actually make sure we have something to eat. Strong and viable food production and the food industry are very important not only for the survival of the whole of Sweden but for the whole of Sweden to live. The food chain companies are very important for many rural municipalities in terms of job creation and tax revenue, whether it be primary production, processing, tourism or trade. Creating the conditions for a strong food chain is thus of great importance for creating jobs and growth in Sweden, both today and in the future. In addition to the value of Swedish food when it comes to jobs and growth throughout the country, Swedish food also has a lot to contribute to sustainability. With food of high quality, safety, animal welfare and environmental protection there are good opportunities for Sweden as a matnation to export products and knowledge to other countries. Furthermore, the UN's global Agenda 2030 targets, which have been referred to several times here today, create an opportunity for Sweden to contribute not only to ensuring domestic food production in a sustainable way but also to global food production. To take advantage of Sweden's full potential as a food country, the focus must be on creating an innovative, sustainable and profitable food chain. All companies in the food chain, from agriculture to tourism, must have competitive conditions. Without strong and viable food businesses, the vision of increased food production can never be achieved. During the time of the Center Party at the Ministry of Rural Affairs, we launched the vision of Sweden – the new food country. It was a vision that gave both the Swedish food and the Swedish food producer the place in politics that it deserves after Swedish food production for a long time has led a fading life in Swedish politics. As part of the work, the Alliance Government in spring 2013 commissioned an investigator to conduct an analysis of Swedish food production. The result was the Competitiveness Investigation, which was presented in spring 2015 and which has formed the basis for the Government's food strategy in several respects. Mr President, I would like to Tomorrow we will decide on four long-term objectives for Swedish food production. It is an important political statement that the Swedish Parliament is now making a decision that Swedish food production should actually increase, that rules and conditions should be designed to strengthen competitiveness and profitability and that vulnerability in the Swedish food chain should decrease. I would like to thank both the Minister and my alliance colleagues for their good cooperation in this, which has led to the fact that we will now have food policy objectives to decide on. But goals and strategies only become words and paper products until they are translated into action. The government has presented an action plan and three action plans that contain much that is good. Unfortunately, however, the Center Party sees a need to put even more clearly into practice what steps and measures need to be taken and taken to achieve the food policy objectives. The Center Party has proposed a plan with milestones and control posts every five years when the Government will return to the Riksdag with a letter to enable the Riksdag to follow the Government's work on the achievement of the goal. This approach was not heard, but I would nevertheless like to stress the importance of measurable indicators and follow-up intermediate targets for the achievement of food policy objectives. The Center Party has presented our own food strategy in the spring with nearly 90 proposals. Among other things, we have clear milestones for what we see as a priority to work with in the coming years. I can reassure you that I will not go through them all. But I thought I'd pick up a few milestones that we think are particularly important. As has been said, profitability and competitiveness are fundamental if we are to achieve the food policy objectives of increased food production. We believe that this is a priority area. It is therefore very worrying that the government has not identified these areas more clearly as priorities in its action plans. While the Center Party wants to reduce costs through, for example, increased diesel refund and reduced social security contributions for dairy entrepreneurs, the government is working on proposals that risk hitting companies in the food chain hard: kilometre tax, new tax rules for small businesses, increased pesticide tax and re-introduced commercial manure tax. If the government is serious about the food strategy and all the words about competitiveness, one cannot give with one hand and take back several times with the other. In other important areas of the food chain too, the government has talked about making changes that risk hitting Swedish food producers hard. For example, the food strategy has announced that it intends to review land acquisition legislation in order to possibly open up the possibility for companies to buy land. I believe that this risks leading to a major structural change in Swedish agriculture, and the Center Party therefore says no to such a change. Business conditions are therefore fundamental, and it is therefore a good thing that the Riksdag now highlights in an announcement the importance of good conditions for entrepreneurs in the food chain. I hope that in the autumn budget the government will come up with strong proposals for reducing the cost burden for our companies. Another important element in terms of conditions for companies in the food chain is government contacts. With regularity, I am contacted by entrepreneurs in the food chain who feel a vulnerability and a helplessness in contact with authorities. This could be about farmers who have first been told in an animal welfare check that everything is okay and then get a written injunction, about entrepreneurs who do not dare to oppose a verifier for fear of reprisals and about growers who have waited for two years to get their EU compensation paid but who do not get help or answers to their questions when contacts are made. Simpler procedures, rules and processes are needed by authorities that facilitate food business operators without compromising safety and environmental work. A more dialogue-based approach is also needed in order to reduce the risk of mistakes and errors and thus provide more efficient use of government resources. We believe that authorities working with food businesses should provide more information and facilitate and support food business, and the actions of the authorities must be transparent and, above all, legally secure and proportionate. The Center Party is therefore pleased that the Riksdag, through an announcement, calls on the Government to ensure that the relevant authorities are given a promotion mission that clarifies that they should not only be a controlling body but should actually contribute to developing Swedish food production and achieving the food policy objectives. But, Mr President, the Center Party wants not only a profitable food chain but also a sustainable food chain. Today's society is too much based on a linear system where resources are used, used and then thrown away. The amount of fossil fuels in the sector needs to be reduced. Efforts to reduce the use of fossil inputs concern the entire food chain, both fossil fuels in primary production and goods transport as well as raw materials choices in the manufacture of packaging. In order to further strengthen sustainability efforts and, at the same time, strengthen competitiveness, it is important that the dependence of the food chain on fossil raw materials is reduced and that the cycle is closed in the food chain. We see this as an important area for Sweden to work with in the coming years, not least in the light of the ambitious climate targets that this Parliament decided on last Thursday. We need to create increased production of and demand for renewable fuels, close the urban-country cycle and take further steps to ensure that we get the circular system and circular system that Swedish food production needs. We also need a European policy that facilitates the sustainability of food production. Regardless of the production form, all farms have their sustainability challenges to work with. It is therefore important to allow each farm to choose its measures to a greater extent rather than to give general support to certain forms of production. We believe that this would provide a higher exchange of actual environmental benefits. Furthermore, linking environmental performance to environmental benefits would provide even higher exchange rates than at present. Linked to this, I would like to mention the Government's objective of organic production and consumption. It is clear that we in the Center Party see that there is a demand for organic products. This is something we should work on, but from a sustainability perspective I think it is better to focus on what you want to have done in environmental work rather than how it is done. I believe that in 2030 agriculture will require a combination of organic and conventional farming. I believe that setting specific percentage targets for organic production will risk losing focus on the whole. It is therefore positive that the Riksdag is now taking a stand against specific targets for organic production. Finally, Mr President, I would like to highlight the vulnerability of the food chain. Unfortunately, the issue of food supply has been forgotten for many years, but as our environment changes, the view that we have here in the house on Swedish food security also changes. I would like the issue to have been raised more in the government's food strategy, but the government refers to other work that is going on. We are very vulnerable when it comes to food security in Sweden. After just a few days, all food would run out, both in the homes of people and out in the country. But even minor changes such as heavy snowfall affect the supply of goods and the ability to distribute food in the country. In addition to reducing dependence on fossil inputs, we need to clarify the division of responsibilities in relation to food supply crisis and contingency planning throughout the food supply chain, and food security must be an important parameter in civil defence planning. It is not about building up central food stocks, but about looking at food security from a system perspective, building away risks and getting both private and public consumers to think about their food readiness. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Swedish food can finally be at the heart of the political debate, and I am very pleased that we will soon have food policy objectives in place. However, to really increase Swedish food production requires action and leadership that can be seen all the way out in the courtyard. After all, we politicians still need the farmer more than the farmer needs us. I stand behind all the reservations of the Center Party, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 95.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-876	Mr President, I would like to For the Green Party, it goes without saying that the less poison we spread on our fields, the better it is. It is both a question of using less quantities and more environmentally friendly commercial fertilisers and pesticides in conventional agriculture and of supporting farmers who want to switch to organic farming. In addition to contributing to a more non-toxic environment, this will benefit biodiversity. When I was on the municipal board at home in Kil at the beginning of the century, the previous target of 25 percent eco-products in public procurement was an important lever to drive the municipality to switch school milk to echo milk. Targets are important, and it is time to aim higher now. The Government sees targets for organic production as an important tool for increasing Swedish food production in accordance with consumer demand. It is better that we produce these goods in Sweden than that we import them. The Center Party was one of the parties that, in the 2014 election campaign, claimed to want to establish new targets for organic production and consumption. I would therefore like to ask Kristina Yngwe: Why do you not stand by your election promise? Why have you changed your mind?
i-546dbb42a99fb610-880	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Stina Bergström, for your question! Fortunately, in politics, when you come up with something that feels better, you have every opportunity to make a different choice, and we have done so when it comes to objectives for organic production. As Mrs Bergström points out, there is a demand for organic products today, and I think that is a good thing. It is a business opportunity for Swedish farmers to be able to take part in these opportunities. Every time a Danish organic producer takes home a shop instead of a Swedish organic producer doing so, the Swedish producer has missed it. Then we have to look at what it is that means that the Swedish organic producer does not take home the store. Is it competitiveness? Is this about costs for diesel or labour? What is it that makes you unable to cope with competition? That's where we're gonna put the power instead. We can look at the sustainability aspect instead, and you will forgive me if I, as a plant agronomist and plant-growing advisor, become a little nerdy. In terms of crop cultivation, there are advantages to organic production. Reducing the use of toxins is such a thing, and it is often seen that there is a better biodiversity. These are things where I see we need cross-fertilization. As I said in my speech, I believe that in 2030 we will have a combination of the ecological and the conventional. But it is important that we in politics do not lock up production towards a certain direction. We're going to set goals-- we're absolutely going to. We should have targets that say we should reduce our pesticide use. In fact, as a farmer, it is not so fun to use pesticides, and it costs money. That's why we want to use as little as possible. But then that's where the stakes should be made. How can we strengthen and help with new technologies and investment funds, perhaps for new syringes that allow you to turn off and get a more accurate run of plant protection products? You can work on the basis of objectives specific to what you want to achieve instead of having a special form of production.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-886	Mr President, I would like to We heard earlier in the debate that Kristina Yngwe's alliance partner from the Moderates wants us to remove all forms of support for organic farming. It still costs a penny to switch from conventional to organic farming. You have to wait a number of years before you can sell your goods as organic. That's another way to work. The government has allocated an extra 200 million in the Rural Development Programme for conversion aid to farmers wishing to farm organically. I understood here that the Moderates want to remove this money and the other subsidies that the government has provided, including the coordination function that is demanded of many of those who work organically throughout the food chain – both by those who grow but also by those who breed and market the organic. I would like to ask the Center: do you also agree that we should remove the addition to conversion aid, the coordination function and so on that the government has introduced?
i-546dbb42a99fb610-890	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Bergström for this. It is interesting to see that the organic market is actually growing, and there is a willingness to pay among consumers. It has also been shown that the market and producers are actually supplying products that meet what Stina Bergström is asking for. For example, there have been products such as conversion wheat that should exist during the time that there is a gap between conventional and organic farming. It is therefore organic but not certified organic. I believe that this is a very good solution for meeting this, rather than subsidising conversion aid from the state. Then it is possible for the market to meet up instead. The same applies to coordination functions. I do not really see why the state should have a coordinating role for organic production. If it is the sustainability issue that you are working on, I think it is better to have a coordinating function for how the whole of agriculture can work more sustainably. If it is the market issue you are working on, it is perhaps on the market side that it should be someone who has a coordinating responsibility and who is looking at this. It is not only organic production that there is demand for, but there are many more labels. There are Svenskt Sigill and many others, and there will be even more in the future. If this is about the market side, that is what we should focus on. I believe that we can have greater environmental benefits and greater use for the money we spend by targeting it at what we actually want to achieve. If it is about competitiveness, we should focus on it in order to be able to take market shares. If it is about sustainability, we will set goals that will make us work with reduced nitrogen leakage, reduced use of pesticides and taking the challenges for a more sustainable and more profitable agriculture.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-894	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that it is very nice that we finally have a food strategy for Sweden. I think it is basically very good that we create the conditions for developing our food production and for strengthening Sweden's economy. The food strategy is now a starting point leading to concrete actions. Now the policy has pointed out the objective, and now we are seeing the direction in which we should go. However, although we agree on the objective, this debate shows that we are far from agreeing on the substance of the policy. The fact that I am the spokesperson of the Left Party's rural policy, and not my colleague responsible for the issues in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture, is for us about the importance of having a nutritional perspective on these issues. It is through stronger food production that more jobs are created, which helps the whole country to live. It should also be noted that it took too long. The fact that we in politics took eight months to negotiate a couple of sentences in some cases is not really okay. Politics needs to be on its toes, and we need to deliver results faster. I know that for many it is not simply to keep up with what different parties agree on and not. That's why I thought I'd give you my explanation. Seven of Parliament's parties have negotiated and support the overall and strategic objectives of the food strategy. I do not know if it was conscious that Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler from the Moderates failed to mention the Left Party. Maybe it hurt too much in the moderate heart. But as the only opposition party, the Left Party has negotiated the whole food strategy with the government. We are therefore in favour of the food strategy today and have therefore not given a follow-up motion on the government proposal. We have also negotiated, through our budgetary cooperation with the government, the money that is now available for the various measures of the food strategy. However, the action plans now presented by the government have not been negotiated with us, and we therefore do not support every single proposal contained in the action plans. By negotiating the whole food strategy, the Left Party came through several important changes that made the strategy better. In total, we got through more than 25 proposals that made it clear that we need to strengthen Sweden's self-sufficiency, stay within nature's framework and have safe food for our consumers. Mr President, I would like to Half of the food we consume in Sweden today is imported. At the same time, Sweden's population has increased from 7 to 10 million inhabitants from 1950 to today. During the same period, the number of farms has decreased from 40 farms per 1 000 inhabitants to 7 farms per 1 000 inhabitants. The agricultural land used has fallen from 4 million hectares to just over 3 million hectares, and from nearly 600 hectares per 1 000 inhabitants to 325 hectares per 1 000 inhabitants. During the same period we have seen emergency stocks of food being phased out. The retail trade has its warehouses on the roads via just in time thinking. And the individual reserve of food with a long shelf life has more or less disappeared. All these changes have increased our vulnerability to food security. Today we have an increasingly uncertain world situation, where the risk of crisis, or at worst war, has increased. We have recently seen flash news today that the tone has risen between the United States and Russia. When, as we do today, we produce only every other plate of food that we eat here in Sweden, our food supply can be threatened in a crisis situation. That is why we need to raise Sweden's level of self-sufficiency. By strengthening Swedish food production, we strengthen the degree of self-sufficiency. More food is produced in Sweden while we get a more robust network of producers when there is a crisis. At the same time, a crisis would put great strain on our food production. Inputs such as diesel, fertiliser and feed are needed for production to work. When they are missing, it will be difficult to produce food. Sweden needs to make itself independent of its large feed imports of, among other things, soybeans, and the state and the feed industry must work together for such a direction. This feed imports are bad for our climate and reduce our emergency preparedness. At the same time, cooperation with our neighbours will be crucial. Trade and cooperation with our neighbours therefore become an important component in feeding our population. In my opinion, the Finnish Food Strategy has gone further when it comes to seeing both regionally and locally. It notes that in a crisis situation goods cannot be sent across the country and that it is therefore important to strengthen the robustness of local farms even in a crisis situation. Sweden must strengthen its civil defence. The process that has now started to build up our decommissioned civil defence is important. Because it is not just bombs and cannons that protect our country. It is also by having food to eat that we protect ourselves. Mr President, I would like to When we increase our food production in Sweden, it is crucial that it takes place within nature's borders. If we are to have sustainable food production, we must achieve environmental and climate objectives. The food strategy contains important wording for achieving the relevant environmental objectives. It is also good that there are wordings linked to the UN's global development objective, Agenda 2030, and that it is recognised that soil soil needs to be distributed more fairly. With climate change, major pressures will affect our food production. A nutrient that is often forgotten in these contexts is the reindeer industry. It is therefore important to pay attention to the impact of climate change on reindeer health as well. As a consumer, you should be able to make safe, sustainable and conscious choices when shopping. It is because consumers have great confidence in food that we also succeed in our legislation. Today, however, we see scandal after scandal lining up where food has been cheated. It has been horse meat scandals, and most recently Mission review disclosure about an importer of Asian food in Gothenburg that both changed the date label and removed pests from food. In addition to this, he acted like a piece of shit to his employees and used them roughly. It is, of course, illegal to act in this way, but the punishment is not felt today. There is no prison today for violations of the Food Act. This increases the incentive to cheat and reduces the police's priority and tools to stop this. Therefore, the Food Act should be tightened up so that violations of the Food Act can mean imprisonment. Until 2006, it was punishable by prison sentences to violate the Food Act, but after a legislative amendment in 2006, there are now only financial penalties for violations of the Food Act. It is a change made during the time of the alliance government. The current Minister for Rural Affairs has appointed an inquiry, but we have not yet seen any proposal on the table of the Riksdag. It is time for the Minister for Rural Development to act on this issue. In addition to having safe food, consumers must be able to make informed and sustainable choices, such as local, organic and animal choices. The Food Strategy highlights Sweden's strong animal welfare and low antibiotic use as examples of comparative advantages for Sweden when we export food. It is important that the policy in collaboration with the industry highlights and makes visible Swedish added value so that the consumer can make active and good choices. It is therefore important that the consumption and production of locally produced and organically produced products are given good opportunities to continue to increase. It is within vegetarian food that innovations are now the fastest in Sweden. Several innovative companies that produce vegetarian products grow so that it cracks. According to them, they need more competitors and other alternatives, so that they continue to have high demands on themselves in their own innovativeness. I had the privilege, together with party leader Jonas Sjöstedt and Jens Holm, to visit Oatly's production in Landskrona. It is a newly built factory with over 120 employees, which is a doubling since 2013. Today it exports to more than 20 countries in Europe and Asia. In the future, many of the vegetarian products can become Swedish export successes. Products such as Oumph and oat drinks are Swedish innovations as a result of Swedish research and development. It is therefore a good thing that the food strategy clearly points out that more research and innovation is needed in the area of food. Last week I also had the privilege of visiting Jannelund's farm in Närke. There, young farmer Adam has thought about how his production will be not only organic but also climate-smart. Basically Adam and his parents ran an organic sheep farm, but when Adam wanted to develop the farm's activities, he thought about it. Instead of double or triple production, he wanted to create a whole. To his development he linked a researcher who analysed how the farm could feed as many as possible and how climate-smart the farm's production would be if he made improvements. Therefore, he chose to invest in vegetable production instead of grassland, and in collaboration with innovative food companies like Oatly he also started production of older Swedish crops that disappeared from the farming landscape, such as sun oats and grey peas. So instead of having a beef farm or dairy farm, Adam actually has a farm. There are a hundred sheep and vegetable production but also two pigs, eight cows, a rooster and a chicken – in short, a farm. It is through these changes that the farm went from giving birth to 60 people a year to giving birth to 180 - 200 persons a year, according to the researchers. I have also heard rumours that the chairman of the committee has been visiting this farm, and I hope that these ideas will be taken more into account. If we're going to meet our environmental and climate goals, we're going to have to set what we're eating. Today we eat too much meat. I like to eat meat and think it is good food, but it is important to eat better and more Swedish meat than today. By reducing our meat consumption, we are also reducing our carbon footprint, so that our planet will last for future generations and they too will be able to sow, use and harvest. In order for us to have a climate-smart development in which consumers have power, the market needs to become raw material neutral. Similar conditions shall prevail regardless of the raw material produced – animal or vegetable. In the debate following the presentation of the Food Strategy, there has been some debate on a review of the Land Acquisition Act. Some debaters have been concerned about the purchase of agricultural land by international venture capital for speculative purposes, which risks driving up lease prices. The Left Party has no objection to the legislation being reviewed, but we have no ambition to make agricultural land a speculative activity and to reduce the possibilities for Swedish farmers to lease land. It is therefore good that the Government has now commissioned SLU to analyse the effects of land acquisition and lease legislation. I support joint reservation No 70 and left-wing reservation No 78.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-924	Mr President, I would like to We in the Liberals have long advocated the development of a food strategy, and we could say, finally! Although it might not have been the same if we had written it ourselves. However, we must note that the issue has come up after we have had a long process around this. In this process, we in the Liberals have had a consistent starting point, and it is about the market and consumer perspective. The strategy will contain concrete measures to boost Swedish food production. It is about exploiting the potential that exists, not least from the point of view that has been mentioned, namely the climate perspective. If we look at global supply, the Swedish soils will need to be better exploited than today. We can also note that food production is an important part of rural entrepreneurship. This is certainly a factor together with others; we also have, of course, the extension of transport infrastructure, broadband and, not least, public service functions, which are also very closely linked to entrepreneurship in rural areas. Food production, however, is central. Mr President, I would like to There has been much talk about Swedish and about self-sufficiency. Perhaps it is swearing a little in the church, but as Liberals we defend free trade and oppose all kinds of protectionism. It is therefore a market economy, not aid and subsidies, that should guide development. It is consumer demand that should guide supply, not quantitative targets and distortive rules. It has probably been mentioned at some point, but what is the competitiveness of Swedish food production is the Swedish added value. It is about good animal welfare, low antibiotic use, environmental considerations and – clearly – high quality food. Nevertheless, it is a trend in society that enough consumers demand high quality. In the food strategy process, the Liberals have chosen to support both the overall objective and the three strategic areas – rules and conditions, onsument and market as well as knowledge and innovation. This was negotiated between the Alliance and the government parties during a longer process, and apparently the Left Party was in on a roll too. This is what is now presented in the proposal for a food strategy for Sweden. Although we agree on the objectives, I note that we do not agree on how to achieve them fully. It has been expressed in a follow-up motion from the Liberals, where there are 14 claims. On this basis, I am in favour of all the seven declarations contained in the report – and I note that it at the same time means approval of six of the 14 claims made by the Liberals: Of course, ensuring generally good business conditions throughout the country is universal, but it is something that also benefits food businesses and the food chain. In fact, giving promotion assignments to authorities working with businesses in the food chain is also universal. The agency should not become the problem for an entrepreneur, but processes should be run in a good way. I do not need to say much more about ensuring efficient and predictable authorisation processes for plant protection products. In terms of simplifying rules for the distribution and sale of game meat, we have a unanimous declaration. Of course, making it easier for consumers to make sustainable and informed choices is very much about the issue of labelling. Nevertheless, one must have great respect for the consumer and believe that he can make informed and good choices. The sixth notice is about facilitating and promoting food exports. From a liberal point of view, the last announcement is perhaps the most important in the line, namely that Swedish food production should be guided by consumer demand and not by politically defined quantitative targets for consumption and production linked to specific forms of production. Of course, we support all the reservations of the Liberals, including the reservations that we have not included in the announcements, but I am content to ask for the approval of Amendment No 47. It is about fisheries and aquaculture, which for some reason is treated very marginally in the food strategy. Mr President, I would like to I should like to raise a few points which we, the Liberals, think are particularly important and central. As I said earlier, we support all four objectives that have been negotiated. In the overall objective, we agreed, among other things, on the following wording:- the increase in production, both conventional and organic, should respond to consumer demand. ..................................................... You can interpret things differently, but for Liberals this means that the amount of organic production and consumption should not be numbered as an end in itself. We are therefore critical of – and a little surprising – that the government nevertheless sets itself a quantitative target for organic farming and consumption in its action plan. We believe that this is directly contrary to the objective on which we agreed. What is stated in the action plan is that 30 per cent of Swedish agricultural land will consist of certified organic agricultural land in 2030 and 60 per cent of public food consumption will consist of certified organic products in 2030. That may be the case, and those figures may be correct, but it is not politics that should set these objectives. I would like to make it very clear that this does not mean that we in the Liberals have very strong views on the method of production. Rather, it is the consumer who should choose. If it is the case that consumers are asking for 100% organically, it would be strange if a market economy did not meet this demand and instead chose to produce something else that people do not want to consume. It feels very tricky. That is the conclusion of our announcement, which supports the views of the Liberals. Mr President, I would like to In the Government proposal, fisheries and aquaculture are only dealt with briefly. The decision-making point, which deals with the government's assessment, addresses only aquaculture's needs for water areas. This may be so important, but in this food strategy it feels like the maritime has been thrown in afterwards and got a small episode just for the sake of it. We Liberals lack a clear vision of fishing in the food strategy. This may be somewhere else, but it should definitely be here. Fishing plays a self-evident role in a food strategy. Fishing must be sustainable in the long term. Sustainable fisheries and aquaculture can contribute to food security. Here too, it is important to have a good labelling system. In this way, consumers can make informed choices based on certification, both in the case of fish and shellfish, so that consumers feel that what they eat has been caught or aquacultured in a sustainable way. We have expressed this in reservation No 47, which I have previously asked for. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I shall touch on the green tax shift which is one of the foundations of the Liberals' environmental and climate policy. It is about taxing what is environmentally unfriendly and climate-friendly harder and taxing work and entrepreneurship less. I began by saying – and many have mentioned – that there is a need for a general and entrepreneurial policy that does not burden companies with red tape and high taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. Liberals are critical of the government's general policy of taxing more on jobs and entrepreneurship, which also affects businesses in the food sector. There is now a very topical discussion about putting taxes at a distance – what is commonly referred to as mileage taxes – and there are other examples as well. In terms of green tax shifting, agriculture has also clearly presented its environmental and climate challenges. From the Liberal side, we have drawn conclusions from this. We have found that eutrophication is a major problem and that fertilizers are part of the problem. We have come to the conclusion that a leakage tax could, after all, be a good economic instrument in this context, as part of a green tax shift. In the case of fossil fuel in agriculture, agriculture and forestry, with current technologies, could be self-sufficient in sustainable energy or biofuels. It is extremely important here how to deal with instruments with taxes and charges. The conclusion on our part must be that we should soon stop discussing how much we should subsidise fossil fuel, because this cannot be the future. Whether it should be at European level or in Sweden can be discussed, but tax subsidies on fossil diesel cannot be a part of the future.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-959	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I agree with all the reservations, but I only support reservation 80. It is a good thing that we are now finally going to adopt a food strategy and that it is coming into place. The aim of the food strategy is to stop phasing out agriculture – instead, we want to develop agricultural production. Feel those words! It is not every day that this House says that agriculture should develop. A strategy is needed to create confidence in the future and a positive future movement within the industry. When we have discussed with the government, the focus has been on increasing food production and achieving more profitability. We want to strengthen competitiveness and increase the level of self-sufficiency in food. For the Christian Democrats, it is particularly important to highlight the crucial importance of agriculture for Sweden's self-sufficiency. Agriculture is the basis for the survival of a nation. Although today only a small part of the population is working in agriculture, we are all totally dependent on its products in order to survive. Agriculture also affects our common nature and our common cultural environments. Many people want to go to the summer cottage in the countryside this summer. There we may be accustomed to seeing grazing young animals who have done the job, and we are accustomed to seeing the beautiful flowers found in the meadows. Unfortunately, this is not the case anymore. In ten years, 20 percent of all pastures and meadows have grown again with shrubs or trees. We need grazing cattle with mules to do the job. We do not need to reduce the number of cattle but, on the contrary, increase the number. One important issue is the food trade deficit. It's down to about 50 billion. The Swedish level of self-sufficiency in food has fallen sharply in recent decades and is currently set at less than 50%. If consideration is given to the fact that food can be produced even when imports of such things as fuel, fertilisers, feed and other inputs are cut off, the Swedish Food Administration's expertise considers that Sweden's supply rate is equal to zero. In other words, in Sweden we lack the opportunity to feed our population with food in the event that trade with the outside world would be cut off. In Finland, the self-sufficiency rate is around 85 per cent. This is because they know how important it is to have food for the people of the country at a time of crisis. I myself have heard stories about people who attended the Finnish Winter War. There was no food. There was starvation. We in Sweden seem to have forgotten that this can also happen to us. Thankfully, we have lived in peace for over 200 years, so we seem to believe that we in Sweden have received a vaccine against conflict and unrest. It's a dangerous road. Here in Sweden's capital, the food shelves in the shops would be empty after two days. The rest of the country is between seven and ten days. We cannot be so naive as to think that food readiness is good when it is not. We must take our political responsibility. In a free country, we cannot force anyone to work as a farmer. In order for agricultural entrepreneurs to continue their activities and new people to join the industry, there should therefore be a strong profitability. It is good that we are so many parties now that have agreed on the importance of increased profitability in Swedish agriculture. That is why it is an important signal that for the first time, perhaps in 30 years, we have a strategy that wants to increase food production. But now it's important that it's not just fine words but that it goes from that to a workshop. Mr President, I would like to A dairy farmer I met outside Nässjö said this: Every morning when I wake up I wonder what rule I will break today. Unfortunately, this dairy farmer is not alone in saying that. Earlier this year, a study was presented which showed that the number of rules that a Swedish farmer must adhere to has increased from 274 in 1996 to 605 today. Not only that, but farmers have a requirement to keep 22 different records, and for 36 different activities or measures the farmer must apply for a permit. During the reign of the Alliance, extensive work was carried out to simplify the rules for agricultural entrepreneurs. It is estimated that the costs of the regulations thereby decreased by SEK 3 billion per year. But unfortunately, to be honest, many farmers like me don't see it. We removed one rule and there were two new ones – not good! The regulatory simplification work must continue. The regulatory simplifications must also apply to Swedish fishermen. Many in the fisheries sector are very concerned about developments. We want to make it clear that fishing is an important part of making food more self-sufficient. It is important that we take responsibility politically. If we have put too much power in the lap of authorities and officials, it is now time for us to take it back. We Christian Democrats want to see a parliamentary state inquiry set up that takes a concerted approach to the regulatory burden and proposes simplifications. We want to start by changing the environmental code, so that it does not say as it does today: Food production is dangerous for the environment. The environmental impact may be so, but environmentally hazardous activities have completely the wrong meaning. We want the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management to be tasked with developing a new guide for registration and authorisation testing in livestock production. The government should take the initiative to remove the requirement for consultation for notifiable activities. The requirement for consultation involves additional costs for the individual, and it takes longer to carry out operational changes. The mandatory requirement for testing in the case of new, refurbished or additional animal housing and animal furnishings should be removed. Today, the rules governing the construction of animal shelters are too detailed. Instead, the focus should be on function and animal welfare. Mr President, I would like to I believe that Sweden needs to set quantitative targets for our domestic food production. This was also the view of the Competitiveness Investigation. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that the Swedish Board of Agriculture should be given the task of developing indicators for these goals, as the investigation suggests. There are goals in our Nordic neighbours that we can look at. Mr President, I would like to Swedish food exports should be promoted by placing food plataches in strategically important markets for Swedish food exports. Food attachés are strategically important for increasing access to new export markets. It is very important for profitability and competitiveness that EU payments are paid to farmers as soon as possible. A contributing factor to the liquidity crisis of many Swedish farmers has been the delayed payments from the rural development programme. Sweden should always take home and pay out EU payments as soon as they are available, to facilitate the farmers' liquidity situation and to allow the money to benefit the Swedish economy. Mr President, I would like to One of the most acute problems for farmers today is the increase in the wild boar population and the rise of wild boars. This powerful animal plows up fields and other crops with great damage as a result. In the fight against wild boars, the individual farmer is unjust. The farmer receives no support for lost harvest, no money for fences or compensation for the time that has to be laid off. There is therefore a need for more generous rules on compensation for the damage caused by wild boars. The shooting of wild boars also needs to increase radically, from today's approximately 100 000 to 170 000. The Christian Democrats therefore propose simpler rules for hunting and selling wild boar meat. In any form of taxation and charging, the starting point should be to promote a competitive food sector. It is therefore important that, for example, the kilometre tax and the manure tax should not be introduced. The Christian Democrats are opposed to an amendment to the Land Acquisition Act and also an investigation into amending this law. I would like to conclude by thanking the President, the Minister and my colleagues in this House and wish you all a really nice summer.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-991	Mr President, I would like to Alice came up to the cat and asked: "How do you get out of here?" Which way should I go? Depends on where you're going, the cat replied. Alice said I don't know. If you don't know where you're going, it doesn't matter which way you're going, the cat replied. Mr President, I would like to These are wise and thoughtful words taken from the fairy tale Alice of Wonderland. If you don't know where to go, it doesn't matter which way to go. When it comes to Swedish food production, it is exactly as it was for Alice in the story. We have had no clear national ambition. Like Alice in the story, we have not really known where we are going, had no guide to Swedish food production. But, Mr President, it is a new time. Now we take a good grip on Swedish food production. We have set up a clear guide. We have decided to increase the production of Swedish food. We are now doing what we should have done a long time ago. It is a fact that the issue of food production has been neglected for a long time, rejected by various governments and by different colours. In the last 20 years, Swedish food production has decreased overall. Competitiveness has been eroded. The market shares of Swedish producers have become smaller and smaller. It has been going on for a long time and political parties have not faced up to the problems of political initiatives and reforms. We have simply not taken our political responsibility on this issue. It's time for responsibility. That is why we have decided together that new times prevail. We have set up clear guides for Swedish food production and put party preachers aside. In this way, we have reached an agreement on the long-term objectives of a Swedish food strategy – an agreement that allows the food strategy to finally be clubbed by the Swedish Parliament in broad political agreement. I would therefore like to thank everyone – the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals, the Center Party and the Left Party – on behalf of the whole of Food Sweden – for sharing this responsibility with the government. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to mention all the professional organisations, associations and companies in the food sector that have actually been indispensable players throughout this process. Thanks to good cooperation and commitment, the food strategy has been sharpened, and the content of the bill that we are now dealing with has become infinitely better with this breadth. In a short time, Food Sweden has gained a unique position in Swedish politics. There is a great deal of commitment to the conditions of the food sector throughout our country, at many different levels. Several regional food strategies have been adopted and more are now emerging. Tomorrow's parliamentary decision on the food strategy means that for the first time ever in the Riksdag we are binding targets for increased production. This is completely unique and lacks what I know compared in any other part of Swedish business. Mr President, I would like to The food strategy is also unique as it takes a firm hold on the entire value chain, from our fields and barns to the finished food on the table in our homes or at the restaurant. Citizens and consumers in our country are committed, aware customers when they go to their business. Everyone knows that food and health are connected. The food strategy is now intended to secure our world leading position in terms of environmental thinking, low antibiotic use, good animal husbandry, food safety and food quality. Mr President, I would like to It is said too rarely: Sweden is in many respects a world-leading food nation. This is something that all those who work in the Swedish food sector should feel proud of. The food strategy also upgrades and upgrades the whole sector. It's nice to sit in a tractor and plow. It should be nice to walk in the greenhouse and steal tomato plants or to label the Swedish food packaging in the food industry. It is nice to fill the shelves on Ica, Konsum or Hemköp with the goods. It is nice to conduct research and development and export Swedish high quality raw materials and products. All those who work in the food industry have an important and nice job, no matter where in the chain they operate. Mr President, I would like to The key and important are the long-term objectives of the Food Strategy, which will deliver by 2030. I am extremely pleased that we have agreed on it. Unity gives strength and confidence in the future, creates clarity and enables important investments and investments. It is our unity that gives strength to Swedish food production, in which I so deeply believe. It gives strength to our primary production and to the food industry to invest and increase its production. It gives our research and innovation renewed impetus to research exciting, future foods. It continues to support the grocery trade to continue to take responsibility for promoting sustainable development and facilitating people – consumers – to make informed and healthy choices. In short: Food strategy should lead to more and growing companies throughout our country. This will mean that more people have a job to go to and that we will have more jobs, not least in Swedish rural areas. Mr President, I would like to There will be no fewer people on earth. Today we are 10 million inhabitants of our country, almost 11 million. Yesterday, there were 240,000 more of us in the world, and today there are about the same number. It's not less food that's needed, it's more. At the same time, humanity faces major and urgent climate challenges. The need for climate-smart and sustainable food production has never been greater than today. Here Sweden has a responsibility and will lead the way. We will show that it is perfectly possible to combine climate-smart and sustainable production with profitability and competitiveness. We have clear goals and a clear path for Food Sweden, and that is something for which I warmly thank an almost united parliament.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1012	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Rural Development, for your speech. And thank you once again for the good spirit in which these negotiations have been conducted! It is gratifying that we have been able to agree on these long-term objectives; I would like to say it again. I think it is very good and important for all the industries involved and for our country. One thing that makes me a little concerned, however, is that in his speech the Minister for Rural Development makes it sound like we have completely lacked direction. He does the analogy with Alice in the Uderland and says that you have to know where to go-- otherwise it doesn't matter. Then he gives the impression that nothing had happened at all before the food strategy suddenly landed. I would like to say that this is absolutely not true. A lot of good things happened during the alliance government. For example, we know that the number of food businesses increased by 26% and the value of food exports by 57% between 2008 and 2015. So there has been a very clear direction, with Matlandet for example. Something else I think it is unnecessary to try to say. It does not detract from the fact that this is very good. I am pleased that we agree on these long-term objectives and can take an even better, integrated approach to food strategy and production in Sweden. The important thing is that we focus on what we agree on: strengthening competitiveness, improving profitability and thus increasing our production. Then you ask yourself a number of questions. So this government has raised taxes by over 40 billion. Then we get a little wonder when we now get a number of announcements, seven, from the Riksdag to the government on this issue. What will the government do to strengthen competitiveness? When will costs be reduced rather than increased? When are the regulatory simplifications coming instead of the regulatory problem? When do we see fewer special requirements instead of more?
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1018	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to say that part of the alliance government was done. Foodland is a part, which may not deal with the whole food chain but a specific part of it. The same applies to the Competitiveness Investigation and primary production. We have been very clear that we have taken a stand in the things that were done under the alliance government. What we have done is an extension of this, but the overall approach was not the same as in this national food strategy; it takes care of the whole chain. As far as taxes are concerned, this government has done some things. Among other things, there has been an increase in diesel tax reduction, which meant that the total amount of diesel tax went down for agriculture and forestry – an investment of 900 million over three years. We have also made other tax adjustments with regard to methane gas reduction and put forward proposals for tax reduction for the first employee. But when it comes to taxes, Jonas Gjörtler also knows that this issue is being discussed in connection with the budget. The package of measures we have adopted now is about taking various measures to facilitate production. We have invested an entire billion for this purpose in various packages to which we can come back.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1022	Mr President, I would like to Competitiveness is not created first and foremost by a mass of government measures and subsidies. This is probably the most serious thing about government policy in this area, but also in others. It is a policy which, unfortunately, is far too entrepreneurial and anti-growth policy. It is based on an over-confident belief that politics should spend a lot of small amounts of money in various packages of measures to compensate for the problems that policy to a large extent creates itself by drawing in many times more money to the public purse and through regulatory, special and other constraints. I think we must dare to see the whole picture, and that is why the issue of competitiveness is so important. Many of the measures presented by the government in the package of measures are good. But it does not detract from the fact that the government has at the same time made this shock increase and undermines competitiveness with these sharp tax increases. When the Minister for Rural Development says you're betting $1 billion, it's a truth with modification. We know that more than half of that money comes from the rural development programme and was intended for this type of action in any case. So it's not 1 billion in new money. I think the government should be honest and say that. Back to the announcements. I am curious to hear in what way the government intends to act to accommodate the Riksdag in relation to these announcements that it is now receiving. We generally need good business conditions. How will this question be addressed? We need a clear promotion mission to the food authorities. Will the government take the initiative? How will the government act to put an end to the specific requirements and competitive disadvantages that come, for example, when Swedish authorities overinterpret EU regulations? Finally, I wonder why the government has set itself a target that will reduce Swedish food production when we in this House agree that it should increase.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1028	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to the announcements that are several – and the claims are also many – I am very happy that they have arrived. This shows that there is a commitment throughout political Sweden. I recognise much of what is in the announcements and many of the demands in the policy that we have already set in motion to implement the national food strategy. We've been poaching a little bit. The strategy will be put into place tomorrow in this House, and already in February we started with package 1 of measures. There is, for example, the development of knowledge for cost-effective construction in livestock production, which was mentioned in the K Onk urrenskraftskumenten as an inhibitory factor. Advice models in livestock production are another example that has also been touched on there, as well as the development of key hole labelling that the industry clearly wants and export programmes. These are 27 measures, and if Jonas Gjörtler wishes, I can, after the debate, hand over the full list of 27 points that we have drawn up. We've spent a quarter of a billion on this since February. As far as the rural development programme is concerned, it is new money. It would have started in 2014 but didn't get started until 2015, but it had to do with delays that weren't caused by this government.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1032	Mr President and Mr Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht! Sweden has very good conditions for food fish production, fish farming. We know that, both you and me. It also has regional policy implications and sustainable jobs in rural areas. The survey The growing aquaculture country has clearly highlighted the potential of growing aquaculture. However, four judgments from the Land and Environment Court of Appeal on 13 March this year concluded that the activities of fish farming in open cages in Omnefjärden and Mjältösundet and winter storage of fish in Netrafjärden in Örnsköldsvik municipality, all in Ångermanland, can only be maintained during a phase-out period of three years. In Storsjön in the municipality of Berg, activities could not be allowed to the extent that the Land and Environment Court first admitted. The decision of the Land and Environment Court is hardly in line with the Government's proposal A food strategy for Sweden – more jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country. What does Minister Bucht say about that?
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1035	Mr President, I would like to Both fisheries and aquaculture are addressed in the national food strategy as important elements. There is no part of the nutrition left out. There is enormous potential for aquaculture in our country. In the neighbouring country of Norway they have a hundred times as much aquaculture as we have in Sweden. There is every reason to develop this. In the package of measures we have put in here – both in package 1 and package 2 – we have allocated specific money precisely for the development of aquaculture. When it comes to the environmental judgments surrounding these specific crops in open cages, it is not something that I, as a minister, can go in and value. It is a court that has taken those decisions because it has made the assessment that they do not comply with the standards to be met under the legislation. But aquaculture certainly has opportunities. I noted that the honourable Member himself raised this point in her speech and mentioned, among other things, nutrient-poor regulatory ponds which could be an example in the development of aquaculture.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1037	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for those words, Bucht! I still ask: does the Government intend to take concrete measures to facilitate the establishment of new fish farms and improve the conditions for existing farms to develop and expand their activities? If so, what are the measures? How do you make Swedish aquaculture more competitive, and how does it grow? In fact, I think that the wording of the food strategy is weak and poor in spirit. You refer to an action plan for the development of Swedish aquaculture and the concreteisation of Strategy 2012-2020. In the maritime and fisheries programme for 2014 – 2020, you also refer to measures. Please answer a little more concrete instead of fuzzyly about ideas, visions and goals. Concreteize here and now, in place, so that we can hear!
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1040	Mr President, I would like to We have funds in, for example, the maritime and fisheries programme. There are 1.5 billion to develop, among other things, aquaculture and fisheries. We want more differentiation within industries so that you are not just dependent on part of this. As I mentioned, we went into package 1 with a particular focus on aquaculture. In the package of measures 2 which came in March, I think, we went in with three different measures to stimulate the further development of aquaculture. It's a lot about finding methods that are long-term sustainable in closed systems. This is a major challenge, but I am convinced that this investment in aquaculture can lead to a great many jobs, not least in Swedish rural areas.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1043	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Minister, for the work on the food strategy and for the Minister's participation in the debate today – it is very much appreciated! I have noted that the Minister is active in travelling around the country. If I had been from Gothenburg, I would have called it a Sven-Eriksgata, but we should not have that fun. I think it is very positive that the Minister is out in the country making business visits in the active way that I have noted that the Minister is doing. It is important for us in politics to really see what the conditions are for companies around the country, whether it is chicken farmers, cheese producers or beer producers. One thing that I suspect quite a few of these entrepreneurs have raised with the Minister is something that I also mentioned in my speech and on which Jonas Gjörtler was also concerned, namely the cost burden. At least that's something I often hear about when I'm out on company visits. The Government has presented action programmes during the spring to implement the food strategy. There are a number of investments, as the Minister said, of around 250 million over three years. I think there are many positive initiatives there. In particular, SLU, the Swedish Board of Agriculture, the Swedish Food Administration and some other authorities have received money. It is about coordination, investigation, knowledge development and upskilling. It is probably so important, but so far I cannot quite say that there are any sums linked to the action programmes that end up at farm level, and that is where the money is really needed. Rather, the signal goes the other way. The government investigates mileage taxes, looks at the pesticide tax and the commercial manure tax, and also takes money from the rural programme to finance the Swedish Agriculture Agency's administration, among other things. What I really feel is that we are calling for measures that make a real difference here and now. Therefore, my question to the Minister is this: will there be anything in the forthcoming action programme or in the autumn budget that can really make a difference at farm level for farmers?
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1049	Mr President, I would like to The 27 points on which we have already decided today make a difference on the farm, and are appreciated by the industry. The issues raised when I visit farmers vary greatly. But the usual comments are: a) Make sure we get skilled labor! Make sure people are trained to take these jobs! Unfortunately, this is not the way it is today. These comments are coming more and more frequently. Another thing that often comes up is:中 Work more with marketing the Swedish added value! It praises the initiative that trade took with Swedish labelling. As a result, the pressure on Swedish goods has increased considerably. I think it's an important part. Although there are higher taxes on Swedish goods and even though they cost more, consumers choose those goods because they are of high quality – world-leading quality. That is something that I think we need to emphasise much more. Another point raised, despite the fact that there are many small and not infrequently medium-sized enterprises, is that it is important that we invest in applied research. These companies do not have the money to go into research, such as in the forest industry where you can work with applied research. So what comes up during the visits is very varied. I promise there will be more package of measures. It will come with the budget, in the BP18, but I do not reveal the content of it today. I can't tell you everything either.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1055	Mr President, I would like to It sounds promising if there will be concrete money reaching the farm level. The cost burden is often mentioned, in addition to what the Minister has mentioned and which I also make myself alive when I travel around. It is felt that the cost situation is higher for Swedish farmers than others. I do not really see that the cost situation would be linked to the production of value added. Instead, it is linked to the fact that we have trained farmers who are interested and who want to keep a high level. Preventive and animal welfare work has been carried out for a long time. I do not really see that it is linked to the cost of labour or taxes and contributions. That is what I would like the government to focus on in future action programmes. Another issue, which is also linked to the conditions for Swedish producers and which I also raised in my speech, is the review of land acquisition legislation and lease legislation. I understand that one of the approaches is to make efforts to rejuvenate the industry. I agree that it is really needed. However, I am concerned that changes in legislation in this area will open up for companies to buy on land and that it will make it more difficult for young entrepreneurs to enter the market and get hold of land. Land prices were mentioned earlier. However, there is a rather imminent risk that new farmers will not be able to compete with investment companies that enter and buy on land. It is becoming increasingly interesting in other countries, because it is a scarce commodity. We looked at lease laws during our time in the government. I really just want to know: What do you think you should look at, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht? Why would the possibility of corporate land be positive for Sweden's future rejuvenation of agriculture?
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1060	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by answering the honourable Member's last question on the Land Acquisition Act. There was one point raised by the Competitiveness Investigation. There is not a proposal in that investigation that we have not taken care of. I also said that we have taken steps in this regard. It is pointed out that the Land Acquisition Act, as it is designed today, is hampering the development of agriculture. I'm not sure that's the case. But I want to make sure we get a good basis. Therefore, SLU has been tasked with carrying out a thorough analysis of whether or not that law inhibits development and what it looks like in other countries where there is another legislation. We shall have a very good basis so that a future government and parliament can make a decision on this. And that proposal should be given time. It shall be presented on 31 December 2018. We need a thorough search of this. The proposals of the Competitiveness Investigation must be taken seriously. This government does. That's why we take care of and analyze everything that's in it. I also think we should try to give a positive picture of primary production, Kristina Yngwe. In recent studies, I see that this picture has changed and that primary production and least agriculture are perceived in a completely different way. If we are to catch the young people, we cannot give a picture of misery. People don't go to darkness. People seek for light. I believe in Swedish agriculture and Swedish primary production. As politicians, we must certainly do a lot better than before.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1065	Mr President, I would like to Maybe I wasn't clear enough before. But I'm gonna have to take it again. I also think it is good that we have been able to agree on these objectives. But in view of the comparison made by the Government, with the cat in Alice, Wonderland, the cat can come up with many ways if we now know where we are going. That is what we are discussing now, rather than what we do not have. And, as I said, we've had a clue about the path before, too. In my speech, I referred to sustainable fishing and sustainable aquaculture. The Action Plan mentions two lines of fisheries and aquaculture. It felt almost wasted afterwards, because it had to be there. I miss the link between Swedish fisheries and Swedish aquaculture to the food strategy. It's primary production of a different type. So far, that's good. But the Liberals lack the connection to the vision for this. I would like to have a comment on that. As far as aquaculture is concerned, examples were mentioned here which showed that it is not environmentally acceptable. Then, of course, you have to work on other forms of aquaculture. Land-based aquaculture, for example, has to do with the control and recirculation of water. What about the food strategy? I know that the Government is fundamentally interested in these issues. But they have not actually been included in the bill.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1070	Mr President, I would like to Both aquaculture and fisheries are mentioned in the strategy and are important elements. There is no area left out. Of the measures that we have already adopted, that is to say 27 measures since February to date, two are directly allocated to aquaculture. And in the second round you get three different missions to stimulate aquaculture. The third package of measures, a research and innovation package, includes a research programme. I assume that aquaculture and land-based aquaculture will be managed there. In that package we also add industrial doctoral students on the food side. It has not existed in Sweden before. We've had it in other industries, and it's been a success. There are some things that will certainly affect aquaculture in particular. I believe in Swedish fishing and aquaculture. I believe, above all, in developing it. If Norway can have 100 times as much as Sweden, we can do a lot. We have a homework to do here.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1075	Mr President, I would like to I had the privilege of listening to the Government at the New York Sea Conference. The Government expressed this with sustainable small-scale fishing and the development of selective gear very well, I thought. I could have said it myself, as I said afterwards. We agree that's the way we're going. But this is a branch of Swedish food production where there is a regulatory problem, where one has not got rid of a single rule. Magnus Oscarsson mentioned earlier that as a dairy farmer you wake up in the morning and wonder what rule you should break today. I think a Swedish fisherman feels: I will break rules no matter what I do or think. It has also proved to be an area around which governments have only ever managed to create more and more rules. Of course, it has a connection to EU policy, but we also have the Swedish national space, and we have to work on that if we are to retain Swedish fishing and a local Swedish production of fish that is very much in demand of consumers. We have discussed consumer demand a lot here today. If it is something that consumers want, it is to know where the food comes from and how it has been produced. I would urge the Government to link this up, so that the vision of Swedish fisheries will be included in the food strategy discussion.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1080	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased with Lars Tysklind's commitment, not least to fishing and aquaculture. We have discussed it on several occasions before in this House. These issues need to be discussed much more. Fisheries policy is common within the EU. I would say that there Sweden is the driving force for sustainable fishing. We are at the forefront of all 28 countries in terms of sustainable production. It pays off because the Swedish consumer chooses the sustainable. You're choosing something that's not sustainable. Another important thing when we talk about fisheries and aquaculture is, of course, employment in fisheries and aquaculture. But we should not forget the processing industry, especially in the area where Lars Tysklind lives, in West Sweden. There are about 2 000 industrial jobs in the processing industry, and there may be many more. The Food Strategy points out precisely that fisheries and aquaculture must also be developed. It also provides industrial jobs in the long run.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1083	Mr President, I would like to Some say that we have reached peak meat, which means that there will be no rising consumption of meat in the world. In Sweden meat consumption peaked in 2011. If that is the case, then of course it is good. Our planet can't handle extensive meat production. If all people in the world eat as much meat as we Swedes do, you wouldn't have a planet that can feed us all. Swedish meat, on the other hand, has great advantages compared to foreign meat. It is shorter transport, high animal welfare and low antibiotic use. At the same time, imports of beef and lamb are now larger than domestic production in Sweden. Most people want to be good. Then it is important to highlight what a country has to offer on the goodness market, when consumers are to make their conscious and sustainable choices when shopping in the store. In politics, we are facing a major challenge here. The former Prime Minister, Göran Persson, highlighted the green folk house. I am thinking about whether the food strategy could be part of such a vision. How can you get the Swedes to eat Swedish meat, but at the same time less meat? How should you highlight the vegetarian alternatives while promoting climate-smart alternatives based on vegetable crops that can be grown in Sweden, so that you don't just import a lot of soy from Brazil? How to reduce the environmental and climate impact of Swedish food consumption?
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1089	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Svenneling that Swedish meat is much more sustainable than foreign meat. I don't mind people eating less meat if they decide to. But in that case they should choose Swedish meat instead of foreign meat. It is not only transport that is the reason why Swedish meat has less emissions. It is also a combination of milk production and meat production that may not exist in many other countries. We have every opportunity to increase our livestock production and cultivation. There are 600 000 hectares of field that are not under plough today. Of course there's potential here. Increasing food production creates jobs and jobs, not least in green Sweden in Swedish rural areas. As you mentioned, former Prime Minister Göran Persson talked about the green folk house. When we have reduced our production over the last 20 years, there have been a great many jobs lost. Primary production currently employs around 57 000 people. There could be a lot more. The food industry employs about 55 000 people. There can be many, many more. This is a job project for the Swedish countryside. Food is mainly produced in some countryside somewhere in the world. We want food to be produced in Swedish rural areas. This is also a question of solidarity. I mentioned in my speech that we are becoming more and more people, not only in our country but also in the world. The question then is: should we get food from countries with 50% self-sufficiency when we can produce the food ourselves?
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1096	Mr President, I would like to Looking at the innovations that are now taking place in the food sector, a lot is happening in the vegetarian or vegetable sector. I think it is important to invest in research and development in these areas. Since we have such a large import of meat, it is unlikely that we will suddenly begin to export when we are unable even to fill our own production. If we are to become an export country, as the food strategy clearly points out, it is important to look at the innovations that we have before us. What many producers of plant products complain about today is that they do not have neutral legislation. They feel that certain types of products and patterns are favoured over others. It's about everything from deciding that children should drink milk to other things. This means that in politics we have a challenge to find that neutrality so that we can achieve that it is the consumer's choice that governs. At the same time, however, we politicians have a responsibility for what is put on the plate. Nowadays it still sounds like the Minister for Rural Development has an interest in what types of conscious and sustainable choices consumers make. How are we to achieve neutrality between different types of food production? Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I would like to wish the Minister a pleasant summer.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1100	Mr President, I would like to The research, which Mr Svenneling mentioned, is very central. We as politicians, and above all not as ministers, should not say exactly what to do in research. But in the last shift, I was in on aquaculture. There's not enough sea. Food from aquaculture fish and shellfish is very good and sustainable for the environment. In addition, this food also tastes very good. We will see much more of this type of research. We will also see more research on vegetable crops. The third package of measures was just about research and innovation, something we have never had before in Sweden. I would like to wish Mr Svenneling, everyone else and the President a pleasant summer.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1103	Mr President, I would like to In order not to forget that, I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. Today, we are going to discuss the staged hourly plan. Since the communiqué, the school has lost focus. We were one of the world's leading countries before municipalisation took over. This bill is certainly a step in the right direction, but I regret to say that we are constantly solving things at the wrong end. We come constantly with patch solutions. I dare to say that a government headship is the basis if we are to get equivalence again. We are at least three parties in this House who feel the same way. I'm having a press conference tomorrow where I'm going to develop this area, so I'm afraid I can't talk as much about it today as I'd like. But we have proposed many things before and we stand by them. The bill says about low, middle and secondary education – it is a good step back to something that worked before all the ideological reforms that jumped back and forth in the Swedish school system. The Swedish Democrats want to divide the subject of mathematics by year and really go down to the level of detail. We also have such thoughts regarding English and Swedish. The reason for this is that we want to ensure that all schools in Sweden read the same thing every year. It should not be as it looks today, as you might slip a little on it. Mr President, I would like to When I was a kid, I switched schools twice. I don't know how many times I had to read about dinosaurs, but I don't think I've ever been able to do anything about Swedish fauna. I have read this myself. This is a typical example of how bad it can be for students when there is no stadium classification. This also touches the area of grades. The Swedish Democrats are pushing the question that grades should be given from grade 4 in all subjects. We also want general and special mathematics, Swedish and English. We want to get a school of opportunity and not have what today is where only one student should apply. Apparently, there should be a universal student, Mr President, who should all be like. We know this can't be done. All children are different, and that is why we want to introduce an opportunity school. The positive thing about the bill is that more opportunities are given to sue the students' performance. Perhaps a common digital light version of the national tests could be introduced in all theoretical subjects. Perhaps that would be a thought for the future, Mr President. In this way we can ensure that all Swedish schools always read and do the same. If we see that schools are losing the thread, we can quickly catch them and ensure that schools do not underprester year after year. There are also proposals for a forced language choice. Language shall be selected at the latest in grade 6. We support this. I think this is a very good way for the student to get 20 points extra. Today you read 320 points, and with the choice of language it is 340 points. This gives students a better chance of entering the courses that are difficult to get into. The proposal also makes a clearer link between the stage, curricula and national tests. There are actually many things in the bill that are really good. On the whole, we support it, therefore, except for the fact that we want to distinguish mathematics. Having said that, I do not wish to extend the debate, but, like all the other Members of Parliament here, I wish a pleasant summer for Mr President, the secretariat and the Committee on Education.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1115	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 2. State governance of the school is central and important for the equivalence of both schools and pupils. That is why we in the Left Party believe that the government's proposal for a staged hourly plan is a step in the right direction. All students should have the same right to know no matter where they live in the country. Today, the differences between regions, municipalities and even parts of municipalities are far too large. The lack of government governance and the creation of a school market have led to disastrous consequences in the Swedish education system, which has become increasingly segregated. Parents' background and level of education are today the ones that have the most impact on whether a student meets the school's knowledge requirements or not. The proportion of pupils born in another country or with a native language other than Swedish is increasing. For these students, increasing school segregation is often very evident, as the PISA study and the OECD have shown on several occasions. The increasing segregation of the Swedish school follows a class pattern, which also has ethnic perspectives. Measures to break both housing segregation and school segregation are therefore necessary. School resources also need to be allocated differently from today, so that schools most in need of resources will also receive it. In order for the school to provide newcomers and multilingual pupils with the skills they are entitled to, several horizontal measures in school policy need to be taken, but improvements can also be made to the actions specifically targeted at these pupils. One such measure is to establish in the hourly plan a guaranteed period of teaching in native language. When the proposal for a new hourly plan was presented, the government stressed the importance of equivalence between pupils and schools. Unfortunately, however, this equivalence seems to apply only to certain pupils and to certain schools. The draft timetable does not give native speakers the same status as other school subjects with guaranteed teaching hours, although the subject has knowledge requirements and grading criteria. According to the National Agency for Education, 24 per cent of the country's comprehensive school pupils were eligible for native language education in the academic year 2014/ 15. However, only half of these children participated in native language education in the same year. Approximately 60 per cent of those taking part in such teaching receive the extra-hourly teaching time in comprehensive school. Today's legislation says that native language education may be organised This is something that the headmaster of each school has to decide for himself. All serious research shows that good knowledge of the native language is an important starting point for all learning. Therefore, mother tongue education must also be strengthened. We will enable multilingualism early in the ages, because it is important for both personal identity and intellectual and emotional development. In view of this, we in the Left Party want to see a regulation in the hourly plan with a minimum number of guaranteed teaching hours in order for all children to have an equal right to their own language. The Government should therefore be instructed to investigate how native language education can be regulated as a separate subject in the hourly plan with a certain number of hours.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1126	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate UbU23 on a staged hourly plan. First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations. Today we are debating and tomorrow we are adjusting a long-awaited proposal. It applies to the hourly plan, which is now being divided up to increase equivalence and to ensure that differences between schools and municipalities are reduced. For students moving and changing schools, the number of hours from 1 July 2018 will be guaranteed in stages. This is something that has become urgent as pupils increasingly switch schools not only one but perhaps several times during primary school. A stadium division is expected to facilitate the principal's planning but also follow-up and reconciliation. The timetable is simply becoming more transparent. There is a tendency for school to give priority to students meeting their knowledge goals, rather than getting all the hours of teaching to which they are entitled. Of course, the goal should continue to be achieved, but an important tool, which should not be underestimated, is that students receive the education they are entitled to. The timetable follows with the decision on the stadium classification several previous decisions in the same direction. In all syllabuses, except in native language and home and consumer knowledge, the central content since 2011 is formulated according to 1 – 3, 4 – 6 and 7 – 9. National tests and knowledge goals are already based on the completed stage, and teacher education now has a stadium focus. Several consultation bodies believe that the option of teaching without a staged hourly plan should also continue to exist. However, the Government and the Riksdag believe that this should be possible only in exceptional circumstances. The proposal also proposes a decision that the hourly plan should no longer be decided by the Riksdag, but that it be regulated as an annex to the school regulation as well as other compulsory school plans. Regulation of the primary school's hourly plan at regulation level will facilitate and speed up the process of change. A motion from the Liberals, the Moderates, the Center and the Christian Democrats believes that legal regulation ensures that all changes in teaching time in comprehensive schools are made with broad support that is well anchored in parliamentary parties. I cannot help but reflect quietly on how different conclusions we draw in this case. To get a majority of Parliament together is not, to me, tantamount to a well-established parliamentary party, rather the opposite. In this case, too much public debate and the approval of others risk going ahead with an analysis and a follow-up of results and actual needs. However, regardless of whether the hourly plan is regulated or regulated by regulation, I believe that we must ensure that changes in teaching time are made, of course, taking into account both broad support as well as watering out, monitoring and learning capacity. Mr President, I would like to In recent years, mathematics has been on the agenda, as it is a subject where Swedish students as a whole have shown a great knowledge gap in recent years. Mathematics is expanded in primary and secondary schools. A reinforcement of 105 hours in grades 7 to 9 will be decided in autumn 2018 and will enter into force on 1 July 2019. Here I would like to stress that the great lack of qualified mathematics teachers has had the highest braking effect. It is impossible not to reflect on the lack of teachers that we already have and that will become even worse in the future. Not all schools and students notice the lack of teachers. Several schools have qualified teachers and colleagues who plan, teach and grade, while other schools notice all the more. This is a major issue of inequality. Unauthorised teachers and constant changes in school management provide a lower quality and a lack of continuity. Every time we put new tasks on the teacher or more assignments on the principal, we must remember that the great lack of teachers risks delivering extremely unequally. In other words, the work of increasing the attractiveness of the teaching profession and getting more people to train as teachers and more people to stay as teachers and school leaders must go hand in hand with our increased ambitions. Mr President, I would like to In research, there is a common understanding of the importance of children and young people being given good opportunities for physical activity. It is good for well-being, for public health and for school results. Yet it is well established that children and young people move far too little and are sedentary much of the day. In December 2015, the Government commissioned the Centre for Sport Research, CIF, at the School of Gymnastics and Sport to carry out an in-depth analysis of the sports movement's children's and young people's activities. The Swedish National Agency for Education also has the task of reviewing the need for more movement during the school day and making proposals aimed at more movement during the school day for all students. From CIF's report State support for sport – follow-up 2016, presented in May, it appears that only 44 percent of boys and 22 percent of girls who participated in the study will reach the recommendation on daily physical activity. The students who participated in grades 5 and 8 and the second year in upper secondary school. In order to get the positive health effects that we believe are needed, young people should devote at least 60 minutes a day to heart rate-enhancing exercise and training, according to the Swedish Medical Association's recommendations. It includes everything from cycling to school and playing on breaks to engaging in competitive sports in leisure time. As part of the Government's package on movement, which was presented a month ago, the teaching time on the subject of sport and health will be increased by 100 hours in comprehensive school from 2019. According to the Government, an analysis is to be made of in which grades an expansion has the greatest effect. If the hours are placed in secondary school, this means another hour and one opportunity a week. The issue of funding will be addressed in connection with the 2018 Budget Bill. But it is also important to point out that more sports hours will not be enough. More sports teachers need to be trained, and there will continue to be students who find sports education difficult or difficult. Therefore, it is also important for the government to gather teachers' unions, research and the outdoor and sports movement in order to increase the daily movement among Sweden's students. Efforts will be made in more training places and additional courses. It is needed to get more qualified sports teachers and a competence development around physical activity for other teachers, so that movement becomes a natural part of the school day. The school therefore needs to make demands that each student should move for a while each day. Therefore, the government plans to tighten the curriculum, so that daily movement becomes a matter of course in all Swedish schools. In the past, the government has also introduced a grant that schools can apply for to involve more physical activity in other teaching. Mr President, I would like to The bill also includes a decision that modern languages are listed as a subject in the school law and that the teaching time in the Sami school is increased by 48 hours for language choices; it is a set time within which the student can make certain choices. A staged hourly plan means that language choices will begin at the latest in grade 6. For this reason, it is proposed that grades in comprehensive school and Sami school should be given in all subjects starting from this year. The same shall apply in primary school if a student or a pupil's guardian requests that a grade be given. In special school, grades must be given from year 7. In addition, the amendments to the law clarify the provisions of the School Act on adapted study in comprehensive school, special school and Sami school, so that it is clear that such special support should be designed so that the student is given the opportunity to reach eligibility for upper secondary school as far as possible. The legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 July 2018. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish the President and my committee colleagues a good summer. I think it is nice that we are doing so, even in view of the fact that there is such a great deal of agreement on the proposal.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1143	Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned in my speech, we agree with the Government on most of the things in this report, but there is a reservation from the Left Party on mother tongue education. There have already been several reports showing the shortcomings in native language education. Of course, teachers are rarely part of the teams. So they do not work in the same way as all other teachers do together. This looks different across the country, but I dare say that out of maybe 250 schools that I have visited in recent years, only a few have had an inclusive way of working in native language education. What can be seen as the reason for this is, among other things, that this is not part of the hourly plan, which allows the principals to decide how it should be arranged. Yes, the principals should of course have some opportunities to be flexible and adapt this according to the opportunities available. But it looks very critical today; many students do not attend native language education, although they are entitled to it, and of those who do so, a large majority have teaching outside of hourly time. What does the government want to do to change this? As I said, the report contains a great many good proposals, but it does not address this issue, which sends a wrong signal.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1147	Mr President, I would like to It is quite true that the bill does not mean that mother tongue support is included as part of the hourly plan. It is part of the student's choice if the student is entitled to mother tongue support. Are you at least five students? Is it supposed to be a special group? I don't have to stand there and tell Daniel Riazat, because he knows that well. I'm afraid to tell you how many schools this works or not. The question that we should be discussing in the future is whether or not it should be voluntary to read native language support. So far, the government has not come into any position other than that it should be voluntary to read native language support. But it is an obligation for the principal to offer this to those who want it in the forms in which it can be organized.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1149	Mr President, I would like to I would like to point out that it is mother tongue education and not mother tongue support that we are talking about in this debate. That's two different things. As I said, there are several problems with not including this in the hourly plan. One of them is about teaching time. The text I read about this with 60% of the students is taken from the report itself. It is not something that comes from the Left Party, but it is from the text that the majority has put in the report itself, which should send out a signal to the government that something is not right in mother tongue education. In addition, this is an issue where research is very clear: the better and more high-quality mother tongue teaching we have and the better accessibility it has for all students who are entitled to it, the better it will be for those students in other subjects. This is of great importance for multilingual newcomers. A third problem is that today's legislation itself could prevent, for example, unaccompanied newcomers from even receiving mother tongue education. A principal can today deny it because of what the law says, namely that it is the principal who decides and that it should be the language you speak at home, which creates problems for newly arrived students. There are some exceptions in that legislation too, but those exceptions do not cover the whole problem. I think the government should get to grips with this and take it into the hourly plan. Perhaps you can adjust the hourly plan in some way, so that the headmaster has some flexibility. However, it should not be a question of whether a person is a new arrival, an unaccompanied minor or anything else, but of ensuring that all children who have a specific mother tongue are entitled to education according to the same criteria.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1154	Mr President, I would like to What's the quality look like? How many students are entitled to mother-tongue support? Is it the right way to say that everyone who has a different native language at home should read a certain number of hours? This is a much greater discussion than the staged hourly plan. We have not come to any other conclusion there. I suppose that discussion continues. If the consequence were to turn out to be that newcomers do not have the right to mother tongue education because they do not speak the language in their home, I think that is right for some thought. This is not how I have interpreted the current legislation. However, I note that Daniel Riazat expresses this. If we see it, I feel that the committee has a task ahead of it.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1157	Mr President, I would like to Lena Hallengren and I can smoke quite a lot in the hood of each other here sometimes. It's pretty good to end this part of the year – the semester, I was going to say as a teacher – by having a nice discussion. I would like to begin by commending the government for the fact that it is a really good bill. It is well written and contains a lot. Then we disagree on some minor issues. But it is an important thing to get into the whole system, and I would like to thank you for that. Mr President, I would like to I hear Lena Hallengren here speaks warmly for more sports in school and all. As a sports teacher, I can only agree with how important it is. I was lucky enough to be with the class that founded the whole Bunkeflo project. If there is something we in Sweden are bad at, it is learning and not constantly inventing the wheel itself. If you look at the Bunkeflo project – or even the Bunkeflo model, as it is called – the children who went to school five days a week moved from 1st to 9th. Instead of 80 percent of the students being able to enter upper secondary school, they went to 96 percent of the students, almost all the students in that class. Why? Well, surely because they moved and felt better. If you feel good, you perform well, Mr President. My question is: how much does the government intend to look at the already existing projects today that are functional and have shown with nine, ten and eleven years of research that they are producing really good results? Mr President, I would like to If we can reuse models that are functional, we have shortened the lead period to introduce it in Sweden. These schools brought in businesses, associations and all kinds of external entities to get them into school. That means it didn't cost the school a crown. The adults who came were from outside businesses. They won it because they got students in the evenings who were there and trained. The school won on it and received health care for both students and teachers.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1165	Mr President, I would like to There are parts of the report on which we do not agree. If I am going to comment on what Stefan Jakobsson asked about, namely sport, I would really like to repeat what I said in my speech. Much is based on the mission given by the government to the School of Gymnastics and Sport and the Centre for Sport Research. We believe that this is definitely proven experience but also adapted to the current conditions. The expected physical activity cannot be solved in school alone. Therefore, it has been so important to involve the Centre for Sport Research to see both what the school's mission is and how the association life takes its important part and does its part in this lesson. The National Board of Education may be closer at hand when it returns to look at what it might look like. If I can spin a little freely in the speaker's chair before the summer break, I think we have some different lifts of different kinds. It is clear that there is another type of competence development for sports teachers. There is another type of need for those who work as a sports teacher but who are not qualified. There is another need for skills development for those who work in primary and secondary school and who are not sports teachers but who are expected to make daily movement part of their everyday work. I visited a school in Kalmar a couple of weeks ago with a very enthusiastic teacher who had really taken heart rate-enhancing activities very seriously and made sure that in different ways use the whole day for the students to move around and also learn more. He didn't call it the Bunkeflo model or anything else. It was a very interesting work that I hope gives rings on the water around him and around many others. That's how we get to work, isn't it?
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1172	Mr President, I would like to I hear there is little disagreement about this. The question is, what should we call it? I do not think the Bunkeflo model will be sad if there is more sport in school, whether you call it something else. What the Bunkeflo model had as its foundation was to use the existing association life. Then you got the students to get an evening activity. Many students may have had to try out 20 different sports during one semester. They usually found something that they really fell for and that they felt they wanted to do in the evenings. Wouldn't it be one of those activities came something else a few weeks later. It was usually done for five weeks and put in different sports for four or five weeks. If we are going to talk about further development, Mr President, it really is for the sports teacher when it comes in specialists in dance, ping-pong, football, badminton or archery, as it was in Stallarholmen where I was. It was really developing for me. It was experts who knew the small details of technical training, how to do certain moments, couple exercises and everything. I almost think I learned as much during those weeks along with a lot of different sports associations as I did throughout my sports teacher training. There were experts to look at. Mr President, I would like to The most positive thing, and it is perhaps something for us politicians who sit still very much, is that the teachers participated in the activity. It was two or three hours of health care a week without costing a crown. It also made them healthy. Sick leave rates in Sweden are far too high. It's a model that I think we can win a lot of things on.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1176	Mr President, I would like to It may be preferential taxation for those hours if you are not careful! We can discuss for a long time what different models are called. It is important to think about what the conditions are at different schools, at different ages. Low and middle school students have much easier to move during the day. It is easier for a teacher to involve the movement as part of the other subjects. There's a big difference with the high school students, where it takes showers and completely different space and where they're not as easy to jump the multiplication table, or whatever it's about. For example, there is an hour more in high school. I myself would hope that something like that was landed. But it is not for the Riksdag to decide. The Agency will have to look at the most useful part of comprehensive school. Recreational activities, I think, should not be forgotten. It is about the collective association life and how to set up the work. It looks different not only because school leaders think differently and teachers think differently but because it looks very different in Sweden. There are many municipalities and schools where you do not have specialists. They don't have dance instructors or coaches for a lot of different sports, but they may only have a few. Then you can think about how we make sure that students move in different ways and that they are introduced to sport. Nor is it that movement is socio-economically equally distributed. On the contrary, the differences are very large. It is a work that all students will benefit very much from and where we also have great socio-economic benefits to make.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1183	Mr President, I would like to We have no request of our own in today's report, because the government essentially follows the Alliance's proposal, but we refer to our particular opinion. Mr President, I would like to This is an amazing time. It's just to look outside how nature right now stands at most in splendor. We have weeks behind us when thousands of students have left school. I had the privilege of attending two amazing school graduations last week. It was wonderful to see the joy and pride that marked these school graduations on the part of both students and teachers. I would like to wish all teachers in Sweden to be part of the closing ceremony that students in grades 4 to 6 at Ryrsjöskolan in Göta gave their beloved teacher when he left after many years of service. It was speech, rhyme, singing and dancing. It was an amazing appreciation for a teacher who had meant a great deal. That's how I'd like it to look at all the schools and all the teachers. That is why I would also like to extend warm thanks to all the teachers who during the last academic year have made great distinctions for students, children and young people in Sweden. The Riksdag is also moving towards its leave. This is the last debate for the Committee on Education and Training. During this Parliamentary Session as well as during many other Parliamentary meetings, 100 days has been a rather common quote that has flourished in several contexts. We are now summarising more than 1 000 days for the government and three national meetings. Unfortunately, they have lacked a great deal of concrete proposals. Much was hung up on the school commission which delivered its proposals a few weeks ago. It is a school commission that had a lot of interesting ideas and embryos for interesting proposals. But it was also too much about a number of new investigations before we can actually proceed with what Swedish school needs. There have been many debates, follow-up movements, announcements, calls to the government and, not least, long and many coffeetimes. Today's debate is an example of a recurring theme during many of these coffee breaks. The bill we are discussing today began during the alliance period in a report and an investigation that showed that Swedish students did not receive the teaching time to which they are entitled. It turned out to be very different, but the picture was too much about students not receiving the hours of teaching to which they are entitled. We were clear in these discussions from the Alliance with our demands for more mathematics and more sport. It was brought into every discussion, and we were constantly turned down by the government. Gabriel Wikström explained only a few months ago that there is no more sport and that the quality of Swedish education in sport is far too low. Gustav Fridolin was on the same theme and explained that there are no more rated hours needed in the subject of sport and health. He had some vague suggestions about motion math – whatever it might be. Mr President, I would like to It would have been nice if the Minister for Education had taken part in today's debate. It's about a bill that means a lot. The government has now turned 180 degrees in its attitude, and we from the Moderates and the Alliance are naturally happy about that. But it is tragic and sad that there are a number of seniors who have now missed this important teaching with talented, skilled and committed teachers who could have given more years of both math and sport. With a government that has been so without proposals and ideas, one cannot refrain from asking itself whether the government really believes in this proposal. Or is it that now that the government is entering the riot with its last two semesters you see that you also need to perform something concrete? Matten has been something the Alliance has been pushing for a long time. In 2013, we introduced more mathematics for primary school. I am pleased that we have the government ahead of us with implementing the Alliance's proposal for more math in mid-2016. But I'm sorry that at the same time we couldn't get all the way forward with more math even for high school. As far as sport is concerned, research clearly shows its knowledge-enhancing effects. But there are also important aspects to public health and, not least, the increasing problem of childhood obesity. The Bunkeflo project has been mentioned earlier in the debate. It has been an important first guide, and it has been followed by a lot of further research that clearly shows in the same direction: that this is important for increased knowledge results. What, then, are the government's grades for agreements entered into? The grade is so far F, Mr President. Neither representatives of the Social Democrats nor the Green Party can be particularly proud of the fact that we have reached agreements. The free school agreement is one such example. The grade agreement is another one. It is, of course, about the experimental work with grades in grade 4, but it is also about the agreement we had that national tests in grade 6 in SO and NO should be voluntary. It did not stick to the government, but it simply removed it. The government has also announced the disappearance of national tests in grade 3. I can assure you that the Alliance will fight it. When it comes to agreements, our patience begins to fade. For what is an agreement with this government worth? It's not a good track record. This is how you build neither trust in politics nor a stronger and better school. That is why we are clear in our specific opinion: if the government does not come back with proposals for what it says it intends to do, we will return to the matter by the majority that we have in the Swedish Parliament. Mr President, I would like to This is not just about two individual topics. This is about the long-term construction of a Swedish school of knowledge. It's about future teachers, engineers, programmers, carpenters, designers, nurses and electricians. It is about students with good knowledge and good prospects who will continue to build Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The nice school graduations that I had the pleasure of attending last week and the happy students and the proud teachers I saw are what Swedish school should be about. It is about the right of all students, regardless of their background, to good knowledge and a bright future. With this, Mr President, I would like to wish the President a really good and pleasant leave and summer and my colleagues in the Committee on Education and Training the same.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1203	Mr President, I would like to I may well say that I can agree with almost everything that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall said just now, with the possible exception that I did not have the opportunity to participate in the school graduations. But otherwise, I can support most of it. On the other hand, these times really give thoughts that are linked to school leaving. I hope someone doesn't take offense when you say you're getting a little bit modern again. I'm a middle school teacher. We're about to introduce middle school, so now you don't have to say that you're one of those old middle school teachers. Suddenly you're all modern again! Mr President, I would like to This applies to the right of all children to knowledge and to the right of all pupils to knowledge. What we are talking about today is a staged hourly plan. It is clear that time is a factor in learning. It is a very important factor linked to the goals that are to be achieved. Like Lena Hallengren, part of her speech shows that schools have mostly worked with pupils gaining approved knowledge. But it also turns out that time becomes important to follow up. These include all those students who for some reason find it difficult to achieve the goals. If you can't show that you really have good time besides competent teachers, it's a factor that is incredibly important to follow up. And it's important to follow up from the beginning. We can look at many of the schools that are particularly successful, not least at upper secondary level. Although this is not about high school today, I would still like to mention those who have up to 1 000 additional points. This applies to some independent secondary schools, which really achieve amazing results. So it is important to include the fact that time is a factor. It's good to have a clear hourly plan. It is good that the government now says it wants to meet the Riksdag. It is a wording that we have in our particular opinion. I would also like to point out the importance of what the alliance parties have been pushing together for a number of years, namely increased time in both sport and health and mathematics. The issue has in some way been put on a long leeway, and the government has not really been able to achieve results. But now it is said that one should meet the Riksdag. It is a bit sad that the person responsible for the bill, Gustav Fridolin, is not here to take the debate. He seems to come only when he is called to interpellation debates. Nevertheless, I hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss the issues in the future. It is precisely about the importance of keeping joint agreements. For my part, I welcome the part where it is said that there will be an exception for the hourly plan to create flexibility. There may be a number of reasons why it needs to be so, and I think that is a good thing. Of course it should be checked and followed up in a good way, but this is actually really good. The government says it will lead to increased equivalence, but when it becomes staged, you can never guarantee exactly that you can move at any time during a school year and believe that you are doing exactly the same things. When I listened to the Swedish Democrats earlier, I felt that the detailed control that Stefan Jakobsson opened up to scares me a little bit. I don't know if I can't wait to hear what's to be presented tomorrow. PISA warned against nationalizing in different ways. There is so much to do in school over the next few years, and being in the process of discussing nationalisation does not promote the quality development needed to succeed in continuing to reverse the developments expressed in the latest PISA report. It was in the previous PISA report that one was very clear. I had the privilege of discussing education issues during the Järva week, which lasted last week. We were a few from the committee who did. Of course it is important to have an equal school. As Daniel Riazat mentioned, segregation and school segregation are something that we all see but that we can then have different solutions to. My hope is that we can continue to have a good balance in the discussion between the parties so that we can find solutions and think differently, this is linked to the fact that we sometimes need to balance things in order to get along and to make a broad and good agreement. The bill also mentions the possibility of reconciliation points in grade 3, grade 6 and grade 9. Then it is strange that, just as Camilla Waltersson Grönvall said a little while ago, they have removed the possibility to follow up on, for example, NO and SO when it comes to grade 6 by not renewing the national tests. It is a bit of a pity that the National Agency for Education does not get the opportunity to cater to the school with this form of good follow-up to see that you achieve a good result. We in the Center Party very much hope for what we write in our particular opinion, namely that this will now happen. I would also like to emphasise that there are a number of grades where there has been no chance of getting more sport and health. We often talk about sports teachers who are qualified and so on. Of course, raising the pulse of children may not be very difficult. I think the multiplication table was mentioned as an example where math has the chance to do so at quite early ages, but of course it will be harder later. My hope is that good school leaders and teachers take on the projects that are going on and make sure that they spread good knowledge. I can be surprised that good projects that lead to good results have no greater spill-over effect than they have in the Swedish school. Although for some reason I did not get the chance to attend any school graduation, I would like to join the group that wishes the President, the rest of the committee and, of course, all the students, who have had a wonderful student and a school graduation in recent weeks, a really nice summer vacation. I wish they would look forward to coming back to a school that gives enthusiasm and joy for learning. Sometimes you say that summer vacation is too long. The hope is that you use summer to read, count, run and do all that is so incredibly fun. I do not have a specific request, but I refer to our specific opinion in the report.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1220	Mr President, I would like to Let me agree with most of what Camilla Waltersson Grönvall and Ulrika Carlsson said, including all the good words about teachers and requests for a good summer for the President and others. However, I was struck by Lena when I listened to President Hallengren's speech. It was her thoughts about the Alliance's motion, where we write that all changes in education in comprehensive school are made with broad support that is well anchored in the Riksdag parties and that for that reason, at least then, we thought that the hour plan should remain in the school law and be decided on in the Riksdag. The fact that we had this wording meant that the majority in parliament had quite a chance to push the government to change. I think it is a good thing that we have public debates on school policy and on which teaching subjects should be prioritised, what hours we need more of and what stages need more hours. In general, I think it is a good thing that we are having a public debate on school policy, because it is that which brings forward the positions. The dialectics that we have seen lie behind the decision that we will stick through tomorrow is part of the real strength of public debate and democracy. I think that the whole of this dossier sees how the need for public debate has moved the positions forward. Over a period of a few decades ago there was a widespread belief that scrapped hours were something very good, offensive and educationally wise. There was a decentralisation wave in connection with the municipalisation in order to get less control and to individualise. Surely, many also saw an opportunity for savings. The effect of this, according to a survey conducted by the National Association of Teachers in 2012 and which I looked at as having climbed, was that for grade 8 students it could distinguish between 71 and 125 hours for mathematics education. 68 percent of the principals said that the number of hours was not evaluated against the results of knowledge. The decentralisation that we were many who thought was interesting and exciting at the time could of course also be used to increase the difference between students' ability to achieve the knowledge goals in mathematics and other subjects. Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that the Green Party was probably one of the last parties to change their position. As late as the adoption of the 2010 School Act, the Green Party wrote that it considered that the national hourly plan should be completely abolished. It was written in its motion that the abolition of the hourly plan is perhaps the single most important measure for truly increased local freedom and reduced central school management. I quote this because there is no environmental party in the debate and I think that the Green Party's position of 2010 should be highlighted. Interestingly, they were the last on the ball when it comes to seeing that decentralisation and the abolition of the hourly plan also meant great differences in the results of knowledge, and that in their exercise they did not mention the results of knowledge or the pupil's opportunities to learn more. Decentralization itself was the most important thing. Mr President, I would like to In this case, one sees in the area by area the importance of there being debate about Swedish school and the importance of not everyone running in the same direction. At one time everyone ran in the same direction when it came to abolishing the hourly plan. But finally someone objected, and the others followed. Finally, the Green Party became the party that put forward a bill to divide the hourly plan – not only to keep it but also to divide it into stages. Also, the need for more math lessons in school followed the same dialectics. It was the Alliance that, first in government and then in opposition, pointed out that more math was needed. After a while the government parties followed. The reason we did this was that we saw that more people needed to learn more, that mathematics education needed to be developed so that more people could learn more math and that we saw that it was clear that Sweden was falling behind in international studies. It was the same with sports and health. The Alliance saw the need for more lessons in sports and health, and we ran this year after year. There were several announcements in committee, and finally the government also came to the conclusion that it was probably a good idea. When it comes to the importance of having a public debate, it is probably not so bad that different opinions sometimes resist each other. When everyone runs in the same direction, it might be good for someone to stand up and say the opposite. It was the same with the stadium division. It was important because it would make it easier for the individual to move between different schools, but also to ensure the quality of teaching in general so that more people could learn more early. Once again, the Alliance was out there earlier, and then the government was hanging on. I think this is a good thing. It is good that we now have a great deal of agreement on the proposals. It is also crucial, Mr President, that we have had a broad, public discussion on these issues. If we had not, we might not have had this bill that we now have to decide on. Mr President, I would like to I think it is in this way that we continue to develop the school. The Alliance has been a driving force on the issues that are being affected today, and on which we will decide tomorrow. It is we who have tabled the proposals, and the government has later come back with about the same proposals that we have put forward. We from the Alliance will continue to push forward in public debate for Swedish schools to be better and for more students to learn more.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1236	Mr President, I would like to I think we should have a lot of debate about school when there is reason for debate about school. I think that this proposal in itself does not lead to major debates, because we agree in many respects, although for various reasons we may have a preference for different parts of it. The reason why I asked for a reply was Christer Nylander's apostrophe of me when it comes to the exercise that Christer Nylander and others – L, M, C, KD – wrote and about the fact that a law regulation according to the motionaries ensures, among other things, that all changes in the teaching time in primary school are made with a broad support that is well established in the Riksdag parties. I did not question that there is an opportunity to push ahead and that one can form majorities in different constellations. I can only say that this in itself does not guarantee that it is broadly based. It is enough in practice and in theory by 51% to actually push something through. With my speech, I just wanted to describe that the difference between regulation and regulation is not really that great. Rather, the regulation-driven approach will provide a little more flexible opportunities for further changes that the school will face.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1239	Mr President, I would like to Speaking of more lessons in mathematics and mathematics, I can say that 51% is considerably more than the parliamentary basis of the Red-Green Government today.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1240	Mr President, I would like to Whether the Alliance, together with the Swedish Democrats, governs school policy or cannot be discussed. However, if you have it widely anchored and therefore sit and discuss which teaching hours will increase and decrease at the expense of each other, I am absolutely convinced that analysis, evaluation and the ability to control this from the government and from the authority that the government identifies will lead to at least as much anchored results. I believe that the public debate and discussion that will not be concluded will have an enormous impact. But when it comes to the possibility of flexibility, it is of course much more difficult to go through Parliament. These changes take considerably longer.
i-546dbb42a99fb610-1241	Mr President, I would like to One can argue that way, but one can actually do that with every question that is ever decided in this Parliament – that it is simpler and more effective and that it is quicker if one lets the government decide. But there is a reason why we sometimes also make decisions in this House, and that is to ensure that the government is working on behalf of the Riksdag and that support and tolerance are required from the Riksdag in order for the government to present proposals. If I am to be honest, we sometimes think that it is better for proposals to be made in Parliament and decided here. Sometimes we want to transfer regulation power to the government. It often depends on who's in the government. It is clear that when we sit in the government, we would like the regulation power to be greater, and when we are in opposition, we would like the power of the Riksdag to be greater. In the same way, I guess it's on the red-green side. I believe, however, that if we had not had the hourly plan as an annex to the school law, we would not have been able to decide tomorrow to extend the hourly plan in mathematics and in sport and health. We would have left it to the government to decide what the hourly plan should be. It was because there was a majority for something else in this House that the government finally changed its position and proposed introducing more sport and mathematics into the hourly plan. That is exactly what I mean, namely that if the government notices that one does not have tolerance for one's policy in parliament, it is good that the parliament has the opportunity to point this out to the government and that the government can change its mind.
