i-da87a312d4eb39e2-4	Madam President, I would like Maria Weimer has asked me whether I am going to take any action against the Swedish Embassy in Kabul because, according to Maria Weimer, the Embassy has refused to accept applications for residence permits from a number of Afghan interpreters. The main rule under the Aliens Regulation(2006:97) is that an application for a residence or work permit from a foreigner who is not in Sweden is submitted to and investigated by a Swedish diplomatic mission or consulate in the home country or in the country where the foreigner is normally resident. Since its creation in 2008, the Embassy in Kabul has been exempt from handling cases under foreign law. This was decided, with reference to the security situation in Kabul, in a Government Office Decision of 15 July 2008(UD/ 2008/ 25399/ PLAN). A new Government Office Decision replacing the said Decision was taken on 8 October 2015(UD2015/08608/ PLAN). Pursuant to this Decision, which was also taken in view of the security situation, the exemption from the processing of migration cases shall continue to apply, in addition to visa matters for a limited circle. The latter is about visas for visits to Sweden and not about residence permits. For cases where there is no Swedish foreign authority dealing with migration matters in the country of residence or residence, there are additional regulations, previously by the Finnish Immigration Service, now the Government Office's regulations (UF 2016:3), if where applications for residence and work permits are submitted and investigated in some cases. It appears from the regulations that citizens of Afghanistan are referred to the embassies of Islamabad, New Delhi or Tehran. A foreign authority shall be available for visits and for receiving documents from the public. If a document is submitted to the wrong authority, the foreign authority may communicate the document to the competent authority. On the other hand, there is no rule which says that you have the right to submit a document to the wrong authority and require it to pass it on to the right authority. At the embassy in Kabul, special security regulations apply to the embassy. In the case invoked, the visit had not been pre-notified. The visitors could therefore not be received immediately but were given the opportunity to book an appointment. All in all, the embassy complies with the laws and regulations, and no measure is up to date.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-8	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply, but I have to say that I am a little surprised at how legalistic and dry it sounds. Let me remind the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we are talking here about people who have worked as interpreters in the service of the Swedish State. They have worked side by side with our Swedish soldiers in Afghanistan and have fully shared the risks of our soldiers. Two of them have paid the ultimate price and had to put their lives at the service of the Swedish state in Afghanistan. Several of them have also been injured by opponents. I believe that Sweden has a moral and political responsibility for these interpreters; it cannot be avoided. They are interpreters with local knowledge of the language and culture, and they are a prerequisite for us to be able to carry out peace-enforcement efforts in third countries. This applies to all organisations that claim to work with conflict resolution and peace promotion. Madam President, I would like I know that the Foreign Minister is a warm UN friend, and I share her belief in the UN as our most important global forum for conflict resolution. One of the UN's most important instruments for promoting peace is military action, and for them we depend on interpreters. I therefore wonder how the Foreign Minister views the moral question of voting for UN action worldwide, to which we also contribute with Swedish troops at times, but without taking responsibility for the interpreters who risk their lives for our security. The issue concerns not only Afghanistan, but also Mali – and probably more countries in the future. Interpreters who have worked side by side with Swedish soldiers must be allowed to apply for protection in Sweden. This does not mean that everyone should be granted a residence permit, but they should be given the right to apply for it. Madam President, I would like My interpellation is about the interpreters who risked their lives to help Swedish troops in Afghanistan. The previous government initiated what is now called a special order, and this means that some people were selected by the Swedish Armed Forces and the Migration Agency for so-called resettlement. However, this initiative only covered interpreters who were in service until the end of 2013/14. Those who previously served as interpreters were not subject to this assessment by the Swedish Armed Forces. Madam President, I would like I would like to repeat this: the Swedish Armed Forces have not made an assessment of the twenty interpreters who worked for the operation until 2013, for more than ten years. They have been left without trial, despite their efforts for the Swedish units. That is precisely why I put the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the right to submit documents to the embassy in Kabul – because there are 20 people left who have not received a hearing. The answer from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is that these 20 people are allowed to travel from Afghanistan to India, Pakistan or Iran to leave their documents there. It would not be a problem if we were to talk about safe and secure border areas, but now we are talking about some of the world's most dangerous countries. These are interpreters who have already risked the lives of Swedish troops in Afghanistan. They will pack their evidence and certificates and risk their lives on the journey through unsafe areas to New Delhi, Islamabad or Tehran. Madam President, I would like I must ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether she intends to sit on the UN Security Council and vote through UN efforts without Sweden being able to take responsibility for the interpreters we have used when we have contributed troops under UN mandates, and whether it is the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' view that the Afghan interpreters should risk their lives on a trip to New Delhi in order to be able to submit their applications for residence permits.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-17	Madam President, I would like Sweden has taken responsibility for those persons who, according to the assessment of the Swedish authorities, have a serious threat to themselves and a need for protection linked to their service to the Swedish Armed Forces in Afghanistan. The work of the Afghan interpreters has been central to the fact that Swedish units have been able to operate in Afghanistan. To support the interpreters and other local employees with protection needs that have assisted the Swedish force in Afghanistan, the government has considered it important, and it continues to do so. In connection with Sweden's military engagement within the framework of ISAF mainly ended in the summer of 2014, the responsible authorities assessed that a number of interpreters needed protection, and I can note that authorities with different responsibilities have cooperated well to deal with a emerging situation within the framework of existing legislation. Residence permits in Sweden were granted within the framework of resettlement in the so-called quota refugee system. In 2013 and 2014, a total of 23 former interpreters and other local employees with protection needs and their family members were transferred to Sweden – a total of 68 persons. These people are now living their lives in our country, after the work of the authorities. It is important that Sweden learns lessons from how the work works in dealing with the issue of Afghan local employees in the run-up to future international efforts. The role of the Government Office in relation to the Afghan interpreters has been to ensure coordination between the relevant departments and authorities. Let us also remember that our military engagement within the framework of ISAF lasted for over a decade. It was very extensive and was implemented in a complex environment. Your question was very specific, Maria Weimer. It was about a special situation, and I have answered the question. If we were not to follow laws and rules, there would indeed be a resurrection. It goes without saying that we will look at this in the light of future efforts and ongoing efforts. We'll make sure we do it the best we can. Then we do not always affect the way other countries operate with their notification provisions and other things that make it difficult to get to other places for example to get a visa or apply for a residence permit. That is something we are constantly struggling with, and this is also the case in this case. However, I have answered your question, Maria Weimer. As I said, it is extremely important to adhere to laws and regulations in this area.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-23	Madam President, I would like There is some kind of information gap here between me and the Foreign Minister, because according to the information I have received there are about 20 interpreters whose reasons for protection have not been assessed. They have looked at those who worked for the Swedish Armed Forces in 2013– 2014, and they have given many of them protection in Sweden. But those who worked for Swedish troops between 2002 and 2013 have not yet received an assessment, and that is who I am talking about today. They have been left out of this special arrangement, which was a workable solution – although it was an ad hoc solution – for what then needed to be done. There is another part of the foreign minister's interpellation response that puzzles me a little. She claims that the embassy in Kabul cannot accept applications for residence permits, but at the same time she says that the visit had not been pre-reported. Then I am curious if it would have made any difference if this visit had been pre-reported to the embassy. This would be very central information for these people. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also says that visitors were given the opportunity to book an appointment. Then I wonder once again whether this would have made a difference. Would they have had to file their documents if they had made an appointment at the embassy? The Secretary of State will be happy to help me understand what she means by her statements. The fact that I am now reading from the answer I have received is that these people are supposed to pack their bags and travel over some of the most dangerous mountain passes in the world. This is to be done with paper in the pocket that is proof that they have worked for Sweden – these papers will lead to a certain death if they are found by the wrong opponents on the way to Tehran, New Delhi or Islamabad. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was also aware that there are thoughts on how to deal with this in future efforts. I am very curious to hear what such legislative proposals or solutions might look like, because this issue will certainly come up again after we have completed our mission in Mali.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-29	Madam President, I would like A person who wishes to seek international protection – that is, asylum – must submit an application to the relevant authorities in Sweden according to the provisions of the Aliens Act. It is therefore not normal order to apply for asylum outside Sweden. If, however, a person turns to a Swedish foreign authority for the purpose of seeking asylum in Sweden, the foreign authority can only accept the application and forward it to the competent authority. An application for asylum submitted to a Swedish embassy cannot be granted by the Finnish Immigration Service, in accordance with the provisions of the Aliens Act. In order to be considered a refugee, one must be outside the borders of one's home country. Those who do not have the opportunity to go to Sweden for protection can turn to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, in a third country. The UNHCR then assesses whether there is a need for protection and possible resettlement to a country with which it cooperates, such as Sweden. It is not possible as a quota refugee to apply for a residence permit in Sweden or in any other resettlement state. Presentation of persons who are proposed to be taken out for resettlement is normally done by UNHCR, or in special exceptional cases by a Swedish foreign authority in the third country. An individual assessment of protection needs is then carried out by the relevant authorities. It is not the government that assesses and makes decisions in individual cases, but it is the independent authority that is responsible for dealing with these types of issues, according to existing legislation. Neither the Government nor the Government Office may intervene, in accordance with the form of government, in matters relating to the exercise of official authority vis-à-vis individuals or the interpretation of law. Asylum cases handled by the authorities are examples of such issues. Resettlement is, of course, important. We continue to push in Europe to increase our reception of quota refugees. The legal channels for asylum seekers to the EU are few, and we have a special investigator looking at the conditions for creating legal paths. We have a variety of initiatives to follow up and see how this issue develops in the future. But we have no reason to question the way in which this issue has been dealt with. It has been done according to current rules, even in Kabul. We also have safety rules to take into account, and it is very important that this is done according to the regulatory framework.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-36	Madam President, I would like As far as I know, this is not about seeking asylum but about applying for a residence permit in Sweden. It is not, therefore, a question of asylum – I do not think we should confuse these two things in this case. The fact remains: There are 20 individuals who have worked for Sweden who have not received an assessment. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs' answer is that they should travel to one of a number of neighbouring countries and apply there, which they cannot do for safety reasons. These people are locked in their situation, and what the Foreign Minister says gives no answer to them– they are still in this lock-up. This twenty people have worked side by side with Swedish units and risked their lives for this. We have here a thick forest of Swedish government decisions pointing in a bit different directions. The Minister of Justice said in June that he refuses to reconsider previous decisions, and now the Minister of Foreign Affairs is sticking to the embassy in Kabul and its security regulations. But we know that certain exceptions are being made, for example with regard to visa applications for visits to Sweden. The embassy in Kabul makes exceptions for this, so it is very difficult to understand that it is not possible to resolve the situation of these 20 individuals. They have been employed by Sweden. We know who these people are, and we have trusted them enough to be employed by the Swedish Armed Forces. I would like to come back to why it is impossible for the embassy in Kabul to make an exception and allow these people to submit their applications. I also wonder how the Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks of a long-term solution – anchored in the Riksdag and the Government – for future efforts. How are we to deal with people being prepared to help us interpret in connection with difficult interventions and then be able to offer them protection in the future?
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-42	Madam President, I would like I am sure Maria Weimer is aware that the government cannot speak on individual matters. Nor can we interpret the judgments of the Migration Court. It is incredibly important to support these interpreters and other local employees with protection needs, who have helped and supported, for example, the Swedish force in Afghanistan. At the same time, there are basic entry values to be taken into account, including those who have the right to examine this type of case. Kabul doesn't hear that. We must act within the framework of existing legislation. This can eventually be changed. It is important to work together – and that the authorities work together – to deal with a situation that has arisen. We have taken responsibility for the people that the Swedish authorities considered to be in need of protection and a serious threat to themselves. These people live here, thankfully, after the work of the authorities. It is the Finnish Immigration Service as an independent authority that makes these assessments, and we must continue to do so. We must also keep to the laws and rules that our embassies and others have to adhere to.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-47	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to increase the resilience of military defence when it comes to supplies and supplies. In his question, Allan Widman refers to the central warehouse in Arboga. The establishment of this concept for logistics supply took place between 2009 and 2010, under the previous government. The former government designed the logistics supply based on a different picture of military defence requirements. As stated by the government in the defence policy orientation proposal for the period 2016–2020, the single most important thing during the focus period is to increase the operational capability of the military units and to ensure the overall capability of the total defence. The defence policy orientation bill clearly indicated that the supply of equipment and logistics is the means to support the armed forces in building their operational capabilities and to enable the armed forces to carry out their tasks in peace and in the event of increased preparedness. The material systems, spare parts, consumables and logistics resources at the disposal of the Swedish Armed Forces and other actors must be able to be used effectively for the defence of the Reich. The Government's specialization decision in June 2015 and subsequent regulatory letters for 2016 and 2017 to the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration reflect this requirement picture. It is the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration, the authority responsible for the rear logistics and storage operations, that designs the operations so that it meets the requirements that the government has set up. It should be clarified that the supply operations of the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration, such as the central warehouse in Arboga, are a component of the overall supply of supplies to the Swedish Armed Forces. The supply of supplies shall be designed on the basis of operational requirements. For units with high response preparedness, adapted storage solutions for critical materials apply. The Government noted in the defence policy orientation proposal that the ongoing change in the logistics area affects the conditions for logistics supply in the event of increased preparedness. At the same time, it is important that efficiency improvements in the supply of materials and logistics are implemented. For these reasons, the Government gave a special investigator in autumn 2015 the task of reviewing the supply of equipment and logistics. The investigator's report, Logistics for Higher Defence Preparedness, was submitted to the Government on 14 December 2016. At the time of this interpellation debate, the referral procedure concerning the report is ongoing. The Government will come back to the proposals made by the investigator after a referral has been made.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-55	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my interpellation. Although this was a very long and comprehensive answer, it was surely not really an answer to the question I had asked. It is quite correct that the operations in Arboga and the central repository were not completed until 2009-2010. But the decision to go to one says a central repository in terms of equipment and supplies in the Swedish Armed Forces was made much earlier. As early as 21 March 2007, six months after the turn of the government in 2006, the Swedish Armed Forces announced the place they wanted to establish themselves in. And it is my assessment, Madam President, that governments, both alliance governments and red-green governments, have been in power during the time that the planning for this has been going on. This is, however, completely irrelevant, for the fact remains that there is only one person who can do something about this maladministration, and that is Peter Hultqvist. It is not Sten Tolgfors, Mikael Odenberg or Karin Enström but Peter Hultqvist who here and now has the power to make a change. The Commander-in-Chief said about his military units last fall that you shouldn't put all the eggs in one basket. But, Madam President, that is basically what we have done when we have decided to store in one place in our country the supplies and materials needed by the military defence. It's not just that we've concentrated it in one place. We have also done this in a building above ground that is not fortified. There is also uncertainty as to who actually owns parts of this property. Madam President, I would like Judging by all the photos on the Internet that I see from the central repository in Arboga, I can almost dare to conclude that the storeroom is not a protected object either, because in that case there would be a ban on photography regarding the building. Now the Secretary of Defense refers to an investigation called Logistics for Higher Defence Preparedness. I can only say that the investigation does not provide any considerations and no concrete proposals whatsoever regarding a change in the security of supply in the Armed Forces. But when investigator Ingemar Wahlberg, less than two hours ago, was asked by one of the members of the committee what had been planned about this, he began by saying: we leave no proposals and no considerations, but in terms of preparedness this is a disaster. And of course, Madam President, everyone who has any understanding in the field of defence and security understands that. The Government's reference to the fact that the referral period is still ongoing for this investigation is not a relevant reference. I would have preferred the Government to take a statement of defence on the substance and, on the one hand, to agree that this is a matter of concern, and, on the other hand, to explain how the Government now intends to act in order to remedy this quite obvious maladministration.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-62	Madam President, I would like I've been reading the answer since I got here. It is a long answer that does not really say anything in the question that Allan Widman is asking and which I think is very relevant. It is for that reason that I am standing here now. As Allan Widman said, we had investigator Ingemar Wahlberg in committee today at 2.30 p.m. 10, where he told me about the investigation Logistics for higher defense readiness. It was I who asked Ingemar Wahlberg what he thought about Arboga, because I have read the investigation and there is nothing about the central repository in it. I got the answer, as Allan Widman quite rightly said, that it was totally reprehensible. I don't think I'm going to quote everything he said, 'cause the assessment was pretty hard. He also told me that he's been there looking at it. I have also visited Arboga and done so with moderate friends in the committee. And you're almost amazed when you get into the huge building, which is not protected in any way and which probably wouldn't resist much if someone wanted to do something wrong there. There are both high and low, large and small – everything is there. And it is more than just a little good and mixed but actually also material of great importance that is there. I would like the Secretary of Defense to tell you something more than what he says in his reply. He must be able to tell us what he wants to do because there is nothing about this in the investigation. You probably shouldn't go back to some kind of mob supply, because there was a lot of molding. I'm sure you'll re-use matter, but the supplies should be closer to the dressings. They should also be located in places where it is not as harmful and a little depending on what kind of material it is. There are those who say that there are about boots and uniforms in Arboga. Yeah, there's a lot of boots and uniforms there, and that's important stuff. We can't have soldiers in the field without something as important as boots and uniforms. Most of the stuff in there is a tent. I guess the Secretary of Defense has been there looking at this huge robotized warehouse. If something happens there, it's intelligence-wise, if you want to be a little mean, easy to knock out the whole system. Then you get in trouble. You can't find a thing and you can't get to them. My personal opinion is that you should clean out most of it and sell it to Ica's central warehouse or something like that.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-68	Madam President, I would like There are different dimensions and levels in the two posts. It is interesting to note that a heavy post from Widman is that it is not Sten Tolgfors or Karin Enström who can do anything about this. The Central Repository was created once before I entered the defence policy at all. I got into it in 2011. Widman has been on an extremely long journey in these contexts. He has been involved in different tours and different situations, and one can think about what perception he has had in these different tours and situations. It is impossible to escape the fact that there is a shadow of responsibility for this in those who have been present in the past, and that also applies to the defence policies that have operated at different times. I visited the central repository when I became chairman of the Defence Committee in 2011 and made a simple statement, which I already discussed with the then head of office Ingemar Wahlberg. We were quite in agreement on the assessment that, of course, it is a stock that is well identified and that in a crisis situation can be a goal. It was nothing hard to say, so what you are presenting here is hardly news to me. How the storeroom is set up and how to transport stuff I know well. But there are a little more facts in this. Today we have 300 - 350 garrison stocks and stocks. We have a larger stock at each business site, which is about 25. It does not therefore give a fair picture of the debate in the perspective that this is the only stockpiling the Swedish Armed Forces have. This organization came into existence, according to one viewpoint, that it would be peacetime relations. What goes through the policies we are pursuing to try to change the situation is to increase operational capacity. The increase in operational capacity is also part of the logistics supply investigation. If the operational capability is to be increased, focusing on the availability of materials in war and crisis, it must have consequences for the logistical organisation. An important approach in this context is the investigator's proposal to transfer a wide range of activities from FMV to the Swedish Armed Forces. This applies to supplies, services and workshops with a total of 1 460 employees, and the warehouse management business comprises 150 employees. There's a piece of key here. What was at the heart of the system that was designed during the time of former defence ministers was an order procedure between FMV and the Swedish Armed Forces. An extremely peace-oriented organisation has been created. We are now attacking this heritage in many areas, and we are gradually trying to change it in another direction and direction. I can't do so much about the legacy looking like it does, but we've started our journey towards something else. You do not have to tell me what the strategic situation is and so on. I'm well aware of that.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-81	Madam President, I would like As I said in my first post, who or who bears the ultimate responsibility for the idea of centralising storage to a single place in Sweden is quite academic. It is only Peter Hultqvist who, by virtue of the minister responsible, is able to act in this area. I would have liked to have cut the tone somewhat in my first speech about the response that Peter Hultqvist gave to the interpellation had provided any guidance whatsoever that he shares my view that this is not a good solution. It was perhaps a good solution in deepest peace, but with the international situation we have today it is an Achilles heel, not only for the Swedish defence but for the whole of Sweden. The Minister for Detention returns to the credo that is in the directional decision: that we should increase the operational capability of the armed forces and ensure the overall capability of the total defence. It's a good credo. However, I can see that the central repository poses a serious threat to this ambition, and I am beginning to understand that the Minister for Defence is on the same line. Then I will come back to my question: Does the government intend to do something about this, or will it refer to an investigation that does not make any proposals in this regard without proposals on how to organise logistics, material procurement and maintenance in the Swedish Armed Forces? There is probably no one in the Committee on Defence who disagrees with these proposals, but the problem is that the investigation does not put forward any proposals regarding the Arboga depot. Peter Hultqvist says that it was others who carried out the logistics reform four five years ago, not he. He wasn't even on the defense committee at the time. It is possible that Peter Hultqvist was not present, but nevertheless the Social Democrats in this House agreed with the proposed reform concerning the logistics of the Armed Forces. On this point too, therefore, political responsibility is divided. It is correct that it is not the only repository. It is by far the largest repository and the completely dominant repository when it comes to logistics in the Armed Forces, but there are many others. Some of them are probably not used as supplies today, but there are storehouses around the country. However, it is important to bear in mind that the storage facility in Arboga is the only storage facility for certain important materials. As I said, it is a worrying weakness in our overall ability to ensure that this supply is so exposed, so unprotected and so easily combated as it is in fact. I hope that Peter Hultqvist can enter into a discussion on the substance and say that it is not a good solution and then present at least an ambition from the government to address this concern.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-89	Madam President, I would like I did not think the Minister for Defence answered the question, and perhaps that is why, as Allan Widman said, we had a somewhat high note. I would like to apologise if the Minister for Defence is offended by the fact that we are informing him about the situation in Arboga, but those who follow the debate may need some background information. I thought nothing but that the Secretary of Defense has been in Arboga. The Secretary of Defense responded to a lot about the logistics supply and what they said about it. As Allan Widman said, we can certainly come to an agreement, because there is very good in this investigation. What concerns me is the position of the Minister for Defence regarding the fact that so many eggs have been put in this basket in Arboga. The Secretary of Defense says he can't do much. Of course the minister can. It is the Minister who is responsible for this. You can look at how you can make changes. Should you keep this enormous layer, or should you spread it even more? We are also aware that it is scattered. But the question is, how much? If I ask FMV, I get an answer, and I ask others, I get other answers. Actually, I don't know how much isn't there. In fact, we have the same position, and that is that it is not good to have so much there. I therefore hope that the Minister for Defence will look at this and return to Parliament so that we can resolve it together. There will be support for this in the Riksdag.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-95	Madam President, I would like As a representative of Västmanland, I cannot help but interfere in the debate on Arboga. In his first speech, the Minister of Defence said that this concept of logistics supply came into existence under the previous bourgeois government. I heard neither Allan Widman nor Lena Asplund disagree with it, but on the contrary, I agree that this was the case. I also heard Allan Widman and Lena Asplund describe the concept as disaster and reprehensible. You rarely hear bourgeois politicians being so self-critical in their defence policy. I hope that this means that more previous positions in the liberal and moderate defence policy can be reconsidered.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-98	Madam President, I would like I never said I couldn't do much about the situation. You're the one who's trying to spread pictures here. You ignore the importance of the fundamental change proposed by the investigator and how central it is. It is an important mechanism for making a change, namely transferring it to the Swedish Armed Forces. If you are going to do something about this, you have to do it in a process that is well thought out and where there is a strategy. It's not just to stand up here and say: Now we're fixing something, and then the Secretary of Defense is going to have a map that he's laying out all over the country and showing where the new supplies are going to be. I think the wisest thing would be to move the operation to the Swedish Armed Forces and from there start a process for how it should be organized. You must realise that the decision that you yourself have been involved in taking in Parliament matters. It is the operational capability and the increase of military capabilities that are at the heart of the decision-making process. This has consequences for both logistics and storage components. The proposal is now being referred, so I will not anticipate a final proposal from the government and say what it should look like. We will have to come back to this at a later stage. The activities in Arboga today are not adapted to the need for increased preparedness in war, but are a legacy of previous decisions. That is the case, and I suppose there is nothing strange to note. It is not something you need to press for, but I think it is a matter of course. With the proposal from the investigator that we now have, if you choose to proceed with it, you can look at the structure and dimensioning of the current system. But this must be done in close discussion with the Swedish Armed Forces. I see the problems, but I can't help but remind you of the story. There are so many actors who have been in every turn through all the years and who have had almost most of the views that you can have in defence and security policy, and then it sounds like what was done in the past was by far the dumbest in world history. You stand here and you sound like you haven't been there. For my part, I can at least say that when I discovered the central repository, I immediately felt that there is one thing that needs to be addressed eventually. You have to make sure something's done. Then it is not too fast pucks that are required, but it is required to take it systematically. I think that what the investigator is proposing in any case creates a basis for continuing to work on this issue. You shouldn't underestimate the investigation as a key to a change. We'll get back to how the investigation is handled on the day all referrals have come in, so that I don't get any comment because I've talked too much before the referral period ends. There are many risks of being a minister.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-107	Madam President, I would like No, the Minister is not in any danger when he gives the substance of the matter in this House. Unfortunately, I think that we may not always have enough of this when we intervene and ask questions to the Government. When it comes to the logistics reform, I am sorry to say it, Åsa Eriksson, but we were in complete agreement – including your party – when it was introduced. I belong to those who the Minister suggests have been around for a very long time. Every time we take a big hold in the field of defense, I get a little butterflies in my stomach, because it doesn't always go very well and maybe it hasn't in this case either. I would like to say to the Minister for Defence that I agree with the proposals made by Ingemar Wahlberg on how to organise overall responsibility for logistics, maintenance and storage in the Armed Forces. But it is no solution to move a central repository from the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration to another authority if the central repository and the weaknesses it entails persist. Now, however, I find some comfort in the fact that the Minister for Defence says straight out in this House that he could directly see that the solution was not suited to increased preparedness and war. He says he wants a close discussion with the Armed Forces. He even says, Madam President, that it needs to be addressed. I agree with all of these his conclusions, but perhaps not the last one, where he said that, however, there should not be too fast pucks. Not least the Minister for Defence himself has warned of the possibility that our country may be in crisis, increased preparedness or even in war during the forthcoming period of defence decision-making. This means, Madam President, that it is not entirely certain that we have all the time we have had before.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-112	Madam President, I would like I am not a supporter of the principle fast but wrong. When I call for some reflection and that one should take such a process together with the Swedish Armed Forces, I mean it. Great efforts have been made and great things have been done very quickly over the years. This is well understood by Widman, with his background and deep experience in this context. It has gone too fast and become wrong many times, but building the type of business that must be close to the units is a delicate task. However, a basic grasp is that one could possibly imagine, if there is a later decision, to transfer it to the Swedish Armed Forces. Then you have a completely different opportunity to manage the process operationally than you have today. That is why the investigator's proposal on this point is important. My firm opinion is that it is an important grip. As far as I'm concerned, it's not just about transferring a supply, and that's a good thing about it. It is worth recalling that the storage operations carried out in garrisons and warehouses of 300 to 350 rooms and the larger stocks in 25 places are not insignificant either. All of this is of collective importance. We will have to return to the matter when the period of referral has expired and when changes have taken place fundamentally so that we can proceed in these matters. The weaknesses that are being pointed out and which are an inheritance that we will have to deal with in the government that I represent, of course, we will try to examine and see how we can address in different ways.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-118	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me what my ambitions are when it comes to pushing through that even folk sports such as golf and horseback riding become deductible. Alexandra Anstrell has asked her question on the basis that she believes that golf and equestrian sports should be included among the sports covered by tax-free staff care benefits. The limit for the type of exercise that should be a personal care benefit and thus be tax-free for employees means today that it should be a matter of simpler exercise sports that can be practiced by almost everyone. What is simpler exercise sport is ultimately a matter for law enforcement to decide. Sports requiring more expensive facilities, tools and peripherals have not been considered to be simpler forms of exercise. As I replied to earlier interpellation debates, the question will be the subject of consideration during the term of office. There are many aspects, such as equality and equality, that need to be analysed. When Alexandra Anstrell had presented the interpellation during the time she served as a substitute for a member who subsequently took her place in Parliament, the third vice-president admitted that Mats Green could instead take part in the deliberations.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-122	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Minister for his reply. It is my former colleague Alexandra Anstrell who has made this interpellation about why horseback riding, and for that matter golf, not classified as deductible sports, something that a number of us have also exercised about. The background to this issue is multi-part. On the one hand, it was a clear and explicit Social Democratic election promise for the 2014 elections, both from the Party Secretary of the Social Democrats and from the future Minister of Public Health Gabriel Wikström. It is a promise that is now irritated, doing everything to forget, put at the bottom of the desk drawer and shoot at the future. On the one hand, it is an indefensible relationship from several different perspectives. Within the current framework, there is scope for employers to contribute to different health care options for their staff. There are a number of areas that according to the Swedish Tax Agency are classified as tax-free exercise and fitness benefits. Strength training, football and ice hockey are classified as deductible health benefits. So far, so good. But also laughter gym, choral singing in the workplace, salt rooms – whatever it is – Feldenkrais pedagogy, guitar lessons, reflexology, herbal baths, rose therapy, cold baths and sauna baths are some rather remarkable examples of wellness that employers can offer their employees and make deductions for. Despite the recognised good effects for the body and health of riding, it falls outside the Swedish Tax Agency's definition of activities that are classified as duty-free exercise or fitness benefits. In addition to the health-promoting effects, horseback riding plays an important role for employees with, for example, various functional and mobility disabilities, balance difficulties, back problems and visual impairments, to name but a few. Madam President, I would like I can also mention that horseback riding is Sweden's second largest disability sport. Some 4 000 riders with different kinds of disabilities are given the opportunity to engage in meaningful and health-promoting leisure activities by horseback riding. Madam President, I would like I can conclude by saying that over half a million people ride regularly – it is the second largest sport in Sweden after football – and of them about 450 000 women, that is, just over 90%. This, if anything, should call for thought if you claim to be a feminist government. I would like the Minister of Finance to give an honest and straightforward answer as to whether the government intends to keep its electoral promise, and if so, when it will be fulfilled.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-130	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply, although the answer was very brief. The Minister of Finance and I have been in these speaking chairs before, and more specifically two years ago, discussing exactly the same issue. I had the same type of interpellation that Alexandra Anstrell has about the health care and horseback riding and when the government intends to begin fulfilling the election promises it had promised in the election movement in 2014. The answer, as it is now, was that it is an important question and that it needs to be further analysed. I think it is important that we take decisions that are well thought out and well analysed. But since it has been two years, I wonder what has happened on this theme, because the answer is the same. We know that equestrian sport is a sport that has been treated rigidly for many years – perhaps because it is a clear woman-dominated sport, perhaps because it is a sport that both young people and people with disabilities often have as a first entrance to further things in the sport. We know that all the different forms of horse sport contribute to increased jobs in the country. We know that more jobs benefit the Swedish economy and are good for Sweden. We also know that the horse connects town and country. So there are many different perspectives on such a small issue, which makes it very large. My question to the Minister is therefore: is the analysis at all yet to be started, and when is it expected to be completed?
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-135	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the interpellation on this subject. This is an important opportunity for people to move and stay healthy. Sporting is something that not only gilds life but also keeps us healthy. Sport is important, not least for many young people. Sport can be a gathering place and a breathing room for young people from heavy loads from school and from the peer pressure that can be found in school. In particular, equestrian sport is an important sport for young girls. Because I know it's a big sport among girls, and not least among some young girls who feel bad about all the demands there is, the equestrian sport, the association in the stables and the proximity to the horses becomes something that makes life better and easier. The equestrian sport is also very important because it is an important industry for sparsely populated areas and rural areas in Sweden, where there are many horses. It is not only about riding horses but also about trotting and gallop horses that allow us to have a living countryside, which is extremely important. From the government's side, we think it is important to have sport and opportunities for sport. That is why we have also increased support for sport by SEK 230 million a year during this parliamentary term, precisely because we see that sport is so extremely important both for comradeship and for public health. When it comes to the possibility of making a health allowance, it is a little different. It is a question of finding a balance in tax legislation between what may be justified by the employer's deduction for staff to stay healthy and what is personal living expenses. Finding this balance in legislation is complicated. This legislation, like other legislation, is written on a rather general level. Then it is the Swedish Tax Agency that will interpret the legislation. To their aid they have the application of law, and the decision of the Swedish Tax Agency can be appealed. There is a line drawn today, just as has been mentioned here. Some things are included, and others are not included. What we have said from the government, and which we will of course stand by, is that we should carry out an analysis. We are, of course, looking at this issue. We have said that we will analyse this during the parliamentary term to see if a better balance can be found. But it is a question of finding a different wording in the legislation that makes these lists look different. It's not easy to find one. I think we can agree that we do not want to be able to deduct personal costs of living either. Then we're on a sloping plane.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-142	Madam President, I would like This was an answer to some question, but perhaps not to the very question that I, Åsa Coenraads and Alexandra Anstrell asked. I still want to know if and when the government intends to implement its electoral promise. It is quite well known that the Swedish Tax Agency makes this interpretation, an interpretation that is highly questionable. What a positive effect salt room, whatever it is, has on health in relation to the demonstrably very positive impact of horseback riding can definitely be called into question. Nevertheless, I note that the Social Democrats were very clear about this election promise for the 2014 elections, which I think is good and welcome. But then I also expect, along with a number of my fellow riders, that this election promise will also be fulfilled. As Åsa Coenraads said, the Minister of Finance has given the same answer when this question has been raised in a number of interpellation debates during this term of office. Not only can you come back to the same answer, but at some point you may also have to deliver. Åsa Coenraads asked how far you have come and when we can expect some kind of response. I also noted that Minister of Public Health Gabriel Wikström in this House has reaffirmed that it intends to implement this election promise but not when – if it is during this term of office or any other term of office. As we know, election promises are valid for the current term of office. No one knows what will happen next. I would therefore like the Minister of Finance to clarify once again when this will be done. Reference is made to legislation. But it is the government that has the opportunity to change the legislation – to present proposals and proposals in the Riksdag, so that we can then make decisions. I would also like to mention something about the rather biased gender balance in support of sport in Sweden, if I may say so. Riding is known for training women in leadership in particular. Many of the prominent female managers who are active in Sweden today come from the equestrian sport. Bringing more girls to the sport with female managers as mentors would be an excellent way to bring more women to corporate boards and management positions in our society. It is again a thought that should be welcomed by a government that claims to be feminist. Madam President, with the stubbornness of a fool, I would like to ask the question once again: is the government going to implement its promised election and, if so, when?
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-149	Madam President, I would like I share the analysis by the Minister of Finance of the importance of sport for health. I also share the analysis by the Minister for Finance that sport has a role to play in bringing people together and also having a positive health-enhancing effect. I also share the Minister's understanding of the importance of the horse for rural jobs and the important part of the surrounding industries this will be. What I do not share is the analysis by the Minister of Finance that nothing can be done and that this is in any other authority. As Mats Green very wisely said here, this is a legislative assembly, and we have the opportunity to change legislation that does not work. Given both the health and gender impact, I think it is important to do something about this. Then it is not good enough to come back year after year and say that this is important but that it should happen some other time and be done by someone else. This someone elseism is devastating to this country. I note that the Minister in his reply in one sentence says that an analysis is being carried out and, in the next sentence, an analysis is being made. I am a little confused, and I have to ask the Minister for Finance: is the analysis started at all? Or does the latter come during the term of office? It would then be better if the Minister of Finance could be honest with this and say that it will come later or that there will be no analysis at all. There is a tendency to a clear breach of promise against both Swedish horse nutrition and all the people who could get better health thanks to the horse and golf.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-154	Madam President, I would like I have always said that we should carry out an analysis during the term of office. Of course, we have already done a certain analysis; otherwise I would not be able to stand here and argue in the way I do today and say that it is not quite obvious and simple how to do it. Then it would have already been done. I have always said that we should carry out an analysis during the term of office, and I stand by that. If it had been easy, what has been said would have been done. I very much appreciate the commitment of the two moderate Members of Parliament to this issue. However, I can remind you and note that in the eight years that the Moderates led the Ministry of Finance, nothing was done on this issue. As pointed out here, equestrian sport is a sport practiced by many girls and women. However, for the record's sake, I would like to point out that there are quite a few what could be called men's sports, which are also not eligible for deductions, such as mountain climbing, billiards, darts, fishing, shooting and speedway. So there are many sports where there are probably more male practitioners who also do not qualify for deduction.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-157	Madam President, I would like It is correct that the issue has been dealt with by a number of governments. Then we received the change of regime in 2014, which promised that this would be implemented. The government has kept none of this at all, and I find it interesting that the Minister for Finance has said that it has begun. Allow me, Madam President, to doubt that. This would probably have been presented today, but the Minister for Finance has given the same answer to the questions throughout his term of office. I would like to return to the core question: do you intend to keep your election promise from the 2014 election campaign? It was an election promise given by the Social Democratic Party Secretary and the future Minister for Public Health Gabriel Wikström. Does the government intend to keep this electoral promise? Again: This affects about 4 000 riders with some kind of disability. It affects over half a million people who ride each week. In fact, it may affect well over 1 million people. It concerns those who ride, those who own horses and those who have an interest close to horse sport and rural entrepreneurship, which the Minister for Finance himself raised. I share the view of the Minister for Finance on this. But if you lift up all aspects yourself, it's a little strange that you still haven't got your thumb out and you don't do anything. Madam President, I would like I ask again with the stubbornness of a fool: Will the government keep its 2014 election promise to make horseback riding deductible as wellness?
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-161	Madam President, I would like It has been pointed out that this is a legislative assembly and that this is where the laws are made. That is quite correct. Of course you can change the legislation. It is only a matter of changing it in such a way that you get the desired result. It is about finding a balanced balance between what one does not want, namely that personal living expenses should be tax-free, and what one wishes, namely that employers should be able to stimulate their employees to sport in such a way as to promote the health of their employees. This is exactly the balance we are looking for at the Ministry of Finance. I have always made it clear that we will analyse the issue during the term of office, and we will of course also do so. I would like to conclude by pointing out once again that equestrian sport is an important sport in Sweden that is practiced by a great many. Of all 500 000 practitioners, however, I do not believe that everyone is employed and would be able to get a health allowance. I know that there are many young girls in this group, and for me it is extremely important that all young athletes – all young girls who are sports and riding – also have good opportunities. That's why we have increased the funding for sport by a total of SEK 230 million every year – precisely so that all these young girls will have the opportunity to feel good in the stables.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-164	I'd like to welcome the Prime Minister.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-165	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, visitors and visiting students! Last week we had a debate, the Prime Minister and I, about security. I mentioned how serious it is that it is flawed and that many are concerned. It is important that we have at least 2 000 more police officers, that they can get at least SEK 2 000 more a month, and that they have a management that enables them to do their important work. That is also why we Moderates propose ten times as much as the government to strengthen the police. After the debate, the Prime Minister said in an interview that he agrees with me about the police. That would be good. I therefore wonder whether the Prime Minister is prepared to make the billion-dollar effort needed to strengthen the police even now in the spring budget.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-167	Mr President, I would like to We fully agree that the police need more resources. That's why we're bringing more resources to the police. More security measures are needed. It's absolutely crucial. In the building of society that the government has begun, security is a fundamental prerequisite. That's why the police should have more resources. That is why we are raising the penalties for a number of crimes. That is why we are making it more difficult for gangs, organised crime, including by making gang leaders much more accountable. There are a number of such resources that must be in place, including more resources for the police. What divides us, however, and where the political divide goes, is that we build a society in which we reduce the risk of young people getting involved in organised crime. We are building a society where we reduce the gaps. In the society of the bourgeois government, the divisions increased. There, school results fell, where it was built less, where unemployment increased, where the gaps increased and where poverty increased. Unfortunately, with such a development, there is much less chance of stopping organised crime from recruiting young people into this. We must put an end to that. This is about two things. One is to be hard on crime. The second is to be hard on the causes of crime. We're gonna run both tracks. Yes, it's about more resources for the police.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-172	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Prime Minister does not deny that there is at least 1 billion going on in the spring budget. That was a very interesting message. If it is not the Prime Minister's statement, these words are empty. We agree that we must take back power from criminal gangs, that it is bad and dangerous to be excluded and that it is there that there is so much hatred and, at worst, violence. The way out of exclusion is that more people must be able to get to work. It is true that the policy differs, because my policy offers so much better opportunities to get to work. But now my question is whether the Prime Minister's speech on security has concrete content. Then he must prioritise and allocate resources that allow the police to increase and do his job better. Otherwise, your words are empty, Stefan Löfven.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-175	Mr President, I would like to No, they're not. We are now adding more resources to the police. That's what we're doing. Moreover, the police organization has not had more employees than it has at the moment. We need more cops, yes. It's just that policemen also need to be trained, unless the Moderates have some in storage that they can produce. We haven't seen them yet. Cops have to be trained, and we do. We also increase admission to the University of Olis. This is precisely the case with exclusion areas. The police say very clearly: we cannot do it ourselves. We have to do something else. We must ensure that the gaps in society are reduced. That is our message. During the period of government preceding ours, during the bourgeois government, exclusion increased. The Moderates' own investigation showed that the number of exclusion areas had increased in Sweden. That's not a good result. Now we have turned this around. Now it is a community building that applies. The construction of society includes both security, order and order, as well as social progress.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-181	Mr President, I would like to Scary. This is how the Director-General for Crime Prevention describes the results of the latest national security survey. It shows, among other things, that crime is increasing, that insecurity is spreading at record speed, and that every ten young Swedish women are now exposed to sexual crimes every year. Sweden is in a very serious situation that requires action and confidence-inducing leadership. Unfortunately, the government has provided us with the exact opposite. We now have a chief of police who expresses greater sympathy for murderers than for murder victims. It's a national police chief who wants to fight mass desecrations with colorful plastic bracelets. It is a national police chief who lacks the confidence of the police force and the public. It is a national police chief who managed to reduce the efficiency of the police organisation by 10% last year. Despite this, they have recently reaffirmed their full confidence in this chief police officer.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-185	Mr President, I would like to It is not the case that the Heads of Government have a party designation. Now we're talking about a head of authority, the head of the police department. Better results are needed in the police. We all agree on that. We also agreed on this when the change in the police organization began. This was needed. We needed to centralise the police organization and make an authority of all these in order to get better governance. At that stage, everyone knew that there is very likely to be a decline for some time in the performance of the business. It has to turn around again. We're going to have more cops, and we're going to have more cops closer to the citizens. It has begun now, including by putting an end to jobs centrally and ensuring that they come out. Now we see little, but progress. We now have more police officers and more visible policemen in the 14 most vulnerable areas. We also see in measurements in Stockholm's vicinity that reports of violent crimes are now decreasing because the police are more present. It's got to be. What is not in line with the rhetoric of the Swedish Democrats is, as usual, their own policy. It's easy to promise here and there and around. But at the same time, they will lower taxes and draw money away from welfare. What do the Swedish democrats think is happening in a society that undermines welfare with the proposals that it makes itself, when poverty and inequalities increase and welfare deteriorates? Do the Swedish Democrats believe that this is a better basis for fewer crimes? I think exactly the opposite. It is the same wrong with the policy of the Swedish Democrats as with the bourgeois. That is why you have joined the Moderates. Tax cuts and cuts do not advance. It will make the situation worse. That's not where we're going.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-192	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats' budget is very much in favour of the most vulnerable groups – the poor, the elderly, women and so on. I'm not the only one who says that. This is also what the parliamentary investigation service, which has looked at this, says. It's good that the government is making some investments on the police. But it is worth mentioning that the resources that the government has allocated to the police are over 1 billion below the amount that the police authorities submitted. It is good that there seems to be a little more police in real numbers, but the number of police officers must be compared to the population. Police per capita is actually a much more interesting concept to look at than the number of police officers. There, the development is not at all good. Because of, for example, mass immigration and other factors, it even looks like the number of police per capita can fall. That is really the most important thing. Even more resources are needed for the police. It's perfectly clear. In addition to the fact that the number of police per capita appears to be falling, confidence in the Police Authority is falling. According to a Sifo survey that SVT presented before Christmas, only 1 per cent of the Swedish population has great confidence in the chief police officer. Does the Prime Minister not think that this is a very clear signal from the Swedish people?
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-195	Mr President, I would like to With the Swedish Democrats' budget, it is once again the case that many billions are withdrawn from welfare. That's exactly what it is. That's 30 billion being pulled away. It is, of course, devastating for Swedish welfare, and it will be devastating for the development of society. It will add to this problem. We're adding more cops. We're going to increase our intake to the Olis Academy so we can get more cops. Can anyone who now says they have so many cops to hire show us where that warehouse is? Where are the trained police and waiting to be hired? The fact is that every one that is being trained comes into work, because we have increased this. We need all these cops. They're not in stock. We're in complete agreement. The number of police officers must increase. The resources for the police are increasing. The results for the Police Authority must, of course, be improved. Security is what applies in this government's community building.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-199	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister Löfven! There are parts of the Swedish labour market that are characterised by very great insecurity. There is a lack of reasonable conditions of employment, and workers are being pushed hard. One of the industries that has been the worst is aviation. This applies to both cabin crew and pilots. We have examples of airlines that are large in Sweden that have had all cabin crew employed by temporary agencies. We have an airline that is famous for having false self-employed rather than employees, for example among pilots. Until now, SAS has been a fine exception. It has distinguished itself for a rather good treatment of its staff, for proper agreements and for being better than the other airlines. I think it honors SAS that it has been so. But now there are plans to move out and, despite the fact that the business is moving towards Scandinavia, establish bases in both the UK and Spain. The explicit aim is to avoid Swedish taxation and to conclude local collective agreements instead of Swedish collective agreements. There is a risk that this will spread to more sectors if aviation is completely relaxed in terms of employment conditions. SAS is partly State owned. The Swedish State has significant ownership in SAS and thus an influence. It can also be mentioned that SAS CEO has received a salary increase from 8 million per year to 10 million per year. So it is not everywhere that you save money in SAS, but it is on the cabin crew and on others that you intend to do so. Now the state can use the ownership it has and go in and say: We expect companies that are wholly or partly owned by the Swedish state to have collective agreements, pay Swedish taxes and do not escape what should be the main rule on the Swedish labour market. My question to the Prime Minister is whether the Swedish Government intends to clarify this.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-205	Mr President, I would like to We shall have fair conditions on the Swedish labour market. We are also working for this in Europe on the social pillar. We're working on it internationally with the Global Deal. The government has now also indicated in the aviation strategy how we view this. It is about cooperation within the United Nations ICAO and how we do it in the European Union precisely so that aviation is not part of the transport sector that is constantly deteriorating conditions. That ambition is quite clear. I don't think any of us know exactly what SAS's restructuring will mean. But I assume that SAS will assume its responsibilities in such a restructuring. There are more Swedish companies that have employees in other countries. This is not the first company to have it. We assume that it takes responsibility in this kind of restructuring and does so in a good way.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-207	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I wish the Prime Minister would be a little more clear and say: We expect SAS to follow the rules of the game that we think is good, to pay taxes in Sweden and to have Swedish collective agreements when flying on Sweden, so to speak. When it comes to Postnord, who has had a system of using drivers from other countries, you, Stefan Löfven, were very clear. You said: We expect to have collective agreements and fair terms on the Swedish labour market. Are you prepared to be as clear about SAS? I wonder if you – in a way – the ultimate owner representative can say: We actually expect not to do this kind of trixing to go around collective agreements and evade Swedish taxation.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-210	Mr President, I would like to There are two different conditions. Postnord applies to transport operations here at home. That's where we assume this, just like I said. SAS is now making a restructuring that I do not know all the details about. What I am saying is that when you do this restructuring and have some activities in other countries, you should in our view do so taking into account the fact that you have the right conditions. But more Swedish companies have employees in other countries. So this is not the first thing to happen. I am not prepared to comment in detail on SAS, but I assume that they are doing this in a way that we expect. Sweden is working on a European and international level to ensure that we have a transport sector, including aviation, which is fair.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-215	Mr President, I would like to One of Lövven's ministers, Shekarabi, expresses himself on the Reepalu investigation: Profit is the theft from the people who must be stopped. Even Jonas Sjöstedt does not express himself so, possibly with the exception of May Day when he gives a speech in Norrbotten or something like that. It is an incredibly far-reaching rhetoric that is now being heard in this area from the responsible ministers. However, I see in today's industry today that other leading social democrats, who may have their feet even more in reality than Shekarabi, are speaking on this issue. Karin Wanngård is a finance councillor in Stockholm – it is one of the regions that of course have the highest proportion of private alternatives. When she comments on the Reepalus investigation, she says: This is not feasible. Denise Norström, Finance Council in Västmanland says: We have no problem. The private options are very popular. All operations need a surplus. Look at that! There was no theft from the people when she got to speak. Erika Ullberg, Social Democratic leader in Sweden's second largest parliamentary assembly, Stockholm County Council, says: I do not want the Left Party to dictate the terms of this important issue. We've cleared out the arguments. We can discuss them as many times as we like. But you have a choice to make, Prime Minister. Are you going to let Jonas Sjöstedt and Shekarabi govern this, or are you going to listen to those who want to preserve freedom of choice and diversity in Swedish welfare? Prime Minister! Do not move Sweden back to the 1950s! Don't let the Left Party dictate this!
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-220	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Björklund draws so much inspiration from social democrats. Keep it up! That's my advice. We now have an investigation that is out for a referral. Björklund knows that. The referral officer's coming. We shall form a proposal which will ensure that we retain freedom of choice. There will be private initiatives. There's no doubt about it. No one ever questioned it. However, we want to achieve something – there is the interesting question. We say that we think it is important that taxpayers' money actually goes to care, to health care and to school. Björklund's main focus seems to be that it is most important that the money can go to profits and dividends. I think the other thing is more important. It is possible to have rules that ensure that taxpayers' money is actually spent in health care and care, while at the same time having freedom of choice. It is absolutely clear that people should be able to choose. No one has questioned this. But when schools – perhaps it was even a preschool, which I think was owned by someone who Björklund knows quite well – choose to serve crisp bread and water to the children, one might ask: Is it such a direction we want? Is that what we want? We see that schools are cutting the number of teachers – they are even qualified teachers and qualified teachers. Why do you do that? Well, you want a profit that you can use for a profit distribution. I don't think that's right. Let us talk about a solution in which we both ensure freedom of choice for people and ensure that taxpayers' money actually goes to what they are intended for!
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-225	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that the Prime Minister says, "Let's talk about a solution," because I understand that the Prime Minister is talking to the Left Party but not to anyone else right now. The Prime Minister's problem will of course be to talk to the rest of us so perhaps the Left Party does not like it, and then maybe there are bigger things at stake for the government. This is a choice the government makes. Should you follow the line of Shekarabis and Sjöstedt, or should you follow the line of the Social Democrats in the Stockholm region? It is a choice to make now, and it is extremely crucial. The English school has 100,000 students in line. This means that 200 000 parents have deliberately chosen it. The school is on the stock exchange, it is for profit and had not existed without the possibility of going with any surplus whatsoever. But it has the highest quality in almost all measurements. Then there are examples of bad activity. And I can't believe it does in public affairs too, I've heard it once in a while! I heard that ABF had to have courses in delivery in taxis, because the sossians are shutting down BB in Sollefteå. There's no interest in profit. There is no risk that a Social Democratic county council will make a profit; it has never done so. Mr President, I would like to It's real now. This is serious, and the Prime Minister will have to choose the path in 2017: Shekarabi and the Left Party or choice.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-229	Mr President, I would like to Shekarabi is a wise minister of state who also engages in dialogue with other parties in order to find a solution that meets both the demands and the needs for freedom of choice and that the money that taxpayers put into welfare actually goes to welfare. No one has even intended to ban profits – none. If Björklund has seen such a proposal, he can show it, but I do not think he will be able to show it. On the other hand, there are levels of profit that are not justified, and then we must do something. We cannot have, for example, a school where we see ever-increasing grades and ever-declining knowledge results. It depends on something. That's because schools in that case are looking to make good profits, and then it's good to send up the grades. But that's not good for the kids!
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-233	Mr President, I would like to Earlier this week Sweden and the Prime Minister visited Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel. I think that's good. I think it is a good thing that we are improving our contacts with Germany, which in many respects seems to be the leaders of the free world now. There are reasons to be inspired by the German example in many areas. One of them is to create an arbete tsmarket with room for everyone. In Germany we have some of the world's most qualified workplaces and companies, which are constantly at the forefront of innovation. However, Germany has also created a labour market with many entry-level jobs through sound structural reforms in the early 2000s – minibobs are called in Germany – along with well-functioning apprenticeship systems. I wonder and am curious: is it the case that the Prime Minister allowed himself to be inspired by the German example at the beginning of the week? The Social Democrats have historically been and are still today the main obstacle to a development similar to that of Germany in Sweden.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-236	Mr President, I would like to No, Emil Källström, we did not discuss the Swedish labour market. We discussed the EU, the US, Trump, the transatlantic link, Ukraine and other issues. We also discussed enterprise policy, because we are both so interested in innovation working so that small companies can develop new products and sell them. We also discussed exports, and I am therefore proud of the Swedish Government's export strategy. The prerequisite for companies to be able to hire is that they sell things. We also discussed education. There's the big bottleneck on the Swedish labour market. It's not minijobs-- it's education. Now there is a shortage of electricians, vehicle mechanics, truck mechanics, floorlayers and the fine profession of welders. These will never come to work with lower wages, but they will come to work with the right training.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-239	Mr President, I would like to I can only regret if it was the case that the Prime Minister and the Chancellor did not talk about jobs and integration, because it will be one of the key issues for our part of the world to face the integration challenge that exists in Sweden, in Germany and in many other countries. Here we must modernise and look at the good examples. Germany has gone from Europe's sick man to Europe's towing locomotives with an inclusive labour market. That is exactly what Sweden needs. The Prime Minister says no. Let us hope that we will have a Prime Minister who will answer yes to that question!
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-241	Mr President, I would like to Emil Källström should be pleased that we have a government that turns the rising unemployment rates during your period into falling unemployment rates, where employment is increasing and youth unemployment is decreasing. Emil Källström should be very happy for that. That's because we changed politics. There is an end to unfunded tax cuts and to cuts in welfare. Now we invest, and then the jobs come too. Then the homes come, and then the welfare comes. That is the right direction to go!
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-244	Mr President, I would like to At a press conference held shortly before the elections, the Prime Minister said: In other words, where pensioners pay higher taxes than employees. We believe that the pensioner tax is immoral and shameful. Pension is deferred salary and must be taxed as salary. ..................................................... Now the government has fulfilled the promise for those with the lowest income, but it is actually crazy quiet when it comes to the rest of the pensioner's tax. You have made step one, but now the question is when step two comes, namely for middle-income women and for all pensioners. This is a question that a great many people are asking themselves, not least all the pensioners in the country: when will the Prime Minister's promise of 2014, i.e. before the elections, be fulfilled? When's it coming?
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-247	Mr President, I would like to I must, in fact, admire Mikael Oscarsson, who raises that question at all. You were involved in introducing the pensioner's tax, and you have ensured that the job tax credit has been increased several times so that pensioners have received relatively higher taxes. However, it is good that the insight has awakened. Then Mikael Oscarsson will be pleased that we have now taken the first step, as described here, so that the tax is equal to 10 000 a month. Then it continues with reduced tax on pension income up to 20 000. We have always said that this should be done with regard to public finances, because we do not intend to do as the previous bourgeois government did when they incurred a budget deficit. Now we have removed that budget deficit and are on plus two years in a row of two possible. We do not intend to reduce public finances, so this should be done in the order and pace that Sweden can afford. But the pensioner's tax is to be removed – that's the message to the pensioners.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-250	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats have always fought for this gap to be removed, and indeed, the Prime Minister, we, together with the other alliance parties, were in favour of reducing the tax on pensioners five times to a total tax value of 16 billion. Now we have a proposal that is ready to be introduced, and the question is: when are steps two and three coming? Sweden has been built by the elderly. Now we have to build Sweden for them!
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-252	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats were involved in introducing this gulf. It's just like that. Live with that reality! This government has now made sure to remove some of these gaps. We will continue at the rate we can afford. We raise the housing supplement, we make sure to improve dental benefits for the elderly, we introduce free outpatient care for them over 85 years of age and we make sure to build more older homes. We take care of the elderly, and we need to do more. But now that journey has begun for real.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-256	Mr President, I would like to Why not continue in such an important area as pensions and pensioners? More and more people are getting older, and this is indeed a success for our welfare country. Only while we are in this Chamber during this Question Time does the average life expectancy increase by eight minutes. It is incredibly gratifying that we live longer, but it also means that it is even more important to ensure that we have a good and sustainable pension system. Last year, the general pension was increased by 4.2%, which was historically high. The Prime Minister has already made clear to the previous questioner the importance of phasing out pensioner's tax. The government raised the housing allowance. Yet, there are a lot of pensioners who are having a very tough time. The testimony for inequality becomes clear. There is an average difference of SEK 6,000 in pensions for men and women.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-260	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. My entrance is that those who have been involved in building up our country with their work should have a safe and good pension. They should have good conditions in old age also financially. For the vast majority it has improved. The average income increase is SEK 800 for a regular pensioner. It's in the right direction. There is no doubt that there are too many who absolutely cannot experience this. It is for this reason that the government has set up an investigation to review the guarantee pension and the housing supplement to see what can be done so that these people can increase their financial security. There is no doubt that women are heavily over-represented among pensioners who are in the toughest situation. That's why this investigation should be done. Such an overall review has not been carried out since the introduction of the scheme 20 years ago. It's time. We must ensure that the economic conditions for the most deprived are increased as well.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-265	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased with the news that Prime Minister Stefan Löfven and Minister for Climate Change and Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin submitted today about a climate policy framework for Sweden. I am also pleased with the global climate agreement that Sweden has been so actively involved in developing. There is much progress to be made, but there are also concerns. It is with concern, discomfort and sorrow that we see what decisions the President of the United States has taken in recent days. It is the wall against Mexico, an end to refugee reception, a decision to stop aid to aid organisations providing women with contraception and access to safe abortions. These are some examples. We need to react and act against these decisions and work actively to strengthen transparency, solidarity and humanity. I wonder how the Prime Minister and the Government intend to work on the changing world situation and what Sweden can do to strengthen liberal democracy.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-268	Mr President, I would like to I fully share the concerns about several changes in direction from the new US administration, not least as regards women's rights. It will mean many hardships and much suffering for many women around the world if these are carried out. What we can and will do, of course, is form as strong alliances as possible. On the climate issue, thankfully, the vast majority are committed to the Paris Agreement. Big players like China, India and others say that they will fulfill the Paris Agreement. That is the way we should go, and that is why we should seek alliances with as many like-minds as possible. This is also the case with regard to human rights and freedoms. We shall stand up for the multilateral. That is why, within the framework of the European Union, we are strengthening contact with Germany, for example. We must ensure that those who stand up for human rights and free values stick together.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-272	Mr President, I would like to The Government has contributed funds to the county councils for improved maternity care and efforts for women's health to work towards achieving the goal of a more accessible, safe, knowledge-based and equal care in maternity care. That's 500 million for 2016, and now 500 million for 2017 – half a billion. Västernorrland received 12 1⁄2 million of this money in 2016. Then the Prime Minister's party colleagues choose to shut down BB in my municipality of Sollefteå, which has also been the Prime Minister's municipality of residence at one time. How does it rhyme with the government's ambitions to achieve the goal of more accessible, safe and equal maternity care throughout the country?
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-275	Mr President, I would like to I assume that Lena Asplund does not mean that I should stand and discuss the decisions made in different county councils.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-276	However, we can discuss how resources are added to welfare. Then I can see that there has been a huge change from the time of the previous government, when it was cut down on welfare. Now we're adding money to the welfare. In addition to the specific initiatives that Lena Asplund himself mentioned, we add 10 welfare billions, of which 3 go to the county councils. We also add more to elderly care and other aspects of welfare. There's the big difference. How the county councils organise their health care is the decision of the county councils. Yes, the state has a responsibility to provide resources and to use taxpayers' money smartly. That is the great difference between the bourgeoisie and this government.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-280	Mr President, I would like to I would like to highlight investments in life science, that is, research and innovation in health and medicine. The need for humanity is almost inexhaustible. Although this is primarily a global industry, it means a lot to jobs and development at home too. Large companies and universities are a bit of a drag train, but we also need to stimulate smaller companies that can make ideas grow. Let me give you an example: Medicon Village in Lund. Five years ago, it was a blow when Astra Zeneca left premises and buildings. Now it is a workplace for 1,500 people in different companies and constellations. It is one of several life science areas in Sweden. Cooperation society – business – academia is what applies. But competition is sharp in the outside world, and there needs to be a pooling of forces in this area. What initiatives does the Prime Minister take to further strengthen the development of life science in Sweden?
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-283	Mr President, I would like to I fully share the view that life science is an important sector for many reasons. It has to do with health and life, and it is a huge sector of the future. That's why we're going to bet a lot on it. One of the five collaboration programmes we have invested in from the government within the framework of the Innovation Council is life science. Here Sweden will be right at the front. We are also pushing for Sweden to get the European Medicines Agency to move from London after Brexit. We think it fits perfectly in Sweden. It will, of course, bring resources and skills. The Government has in the research bill initiatives within life science in terms of national research structure. It should be a register-based research and clinical therapy research. We are also extending the mandate of the National Coordinator for Life Science because there is so much more to do. This includes cooperation between politics, industry, academia and other key actors.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-287	Mr President, I would like to In the latest report from Försäkringskassan, we can see that the forecast for the costs of personal assistance – assistance compensation – is reduced by 300 million per year in the coming years. We can also note that the number of new allowances has almost halved over the last two years. We are met with information that more people will receive the compensation completely withdrawn or reduced. Today, in the hearing held by the Committee on Social Affairs, it was clear that there is still a lack of knowledge of what is happening to those who have received compensation withdrawn or reduced or who have never been granted compensation. It was also shown that the Government has no intention of giving any additional directive to the ongoing investigation. Is the government not at all concerned about what will happen to those who depend on the support of society?
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-290	Mr President, I would like to The whole system of assistance payments is originally a social democratic idea. People with disabilities must be given the best possible chance of working in the same way as other people. That's why the compensation exists. This has been made clear in the directive to Försäkringskassan. No one has changed any rules as to which ones should or should not receive. On the other hand, there are some judgments that have demonstrably led to a change of practice. That is why the responsible minister has initiated an investigation to see how this has happened and what may need to be done. This is an incredibly important area. We will see to it that the people who need it get it. But we will also ensure that the money spent on advertising and on lawyers and lawyers is reduced. The money will go to those who need it.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-294	Mr President, I would like to Kungsholmen Upper Secondary School's student union was named Student Union of the Year 2016. Today I've been visited by them. They're following us from the gallery. With the student union board, I have discussed, among other things, how important it is to feel that you have the opportunity to influence, to engage in trade unions or student unions in order to influence your work environment. It doesn't matter whether you're a welder or a Member of Parliament, an IT architect, a teacher or a student. It is important and urgent. Research has shown that students who have influence over their education are more enthusiastic about their learning. Clear educational leadership is important. School leaders and principals are doing a fantastic job today, but many times they lack the right conditions. It is about having too few employees, that you need more administrative support but also that the attractiveness of the profession is not always so high. In this connection, I would like to ask the Prime Minister what the government intends to do to strengthen the principals of their educational leadership and to raise the status of school leaders. One minute is short, but what does the Prime Minister think about student union work?
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-299	Mr President, I would like to I was the treasurer of the student council at Valla School in Sollefteå, so I wish you every success in that job. It is extremely important that students take part in democracy in school and participate in it. I am absolutely convinced that if we are to properly develop an equal school of knowledge, there must be strong pedagogical leadership. In it, school leaders and principals have a very important task. That is why, for example, we are giving them the opportunity to get a higher salary. Those who take on schools where the challenges are greatest should have that opportunity and also want to stay and develop the business. In dialogue with the parties, we conduct a discussion about a so-called professional programme for both teachers and principals to give them more opportunity to develop their pedagogical leadership. Not least, we give more resources to the school so that the principals actually have more resources to use to hire teachers and raise salaries but also to bring more resources to student health or whatever you want to do. The principals and school leaders should have the best support for their very important mission.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-305	Mr President, I would like to In the Migration Agency's report Are you married? From March 2016, 132 cases of married girls have been reported in Sweden. The darker speech is also great, you inform. Instead of being saved, most of the girls were left with the grown men. In February 2016, the Minister of Migration promised an investigation, but in a whole year nothing has happened despite the distress calls of his own authority. Girls have been allowed to live with adult men – with grants from the municipalities. Where have you been in the Social Democrats? Why haven't you done anything? Only today, when the Liberals have launched an initiative here in Parliament, when we have had enough and brought a committee initiative, does Morgan Johansson want to invite us into the opposition for coffee. Stefan Löfven! Actually, we don't have to drink any coffee. We need to save these girls. We must change the law now, and we must remove the girls from the adult men and the home they share with them. It must be done now; we cannot wait.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-310	Mr President, I would like to I don't know whether Morgan Johansson's offering coffee or not. That is not the interesting thing, but the interesting thing is to do something about this problem. Already when this legislation was introduced – it was not that long ago; it was about half the year 2014 – we Social Democrats said that this law may need to be reviewed to see if it works well enough. So we have had this view all along. It is clear that it needs to be reviewed. That is why the responsible minister is now making this invitation. As a principle, I think that laws should be prepared in the government in the ordinary processes that we have for legislative work. If the Riksdag wants to do so, it is up to the Riksdag, but we have exactly the same view on this. This is a problem that needs to be addressed, but it is good that you do a review before you change laws – that you not only change but also understand the consequences of it.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-314	Mr President, I would like to It cannot have escaped anyone that the United States has a new president who is protectionist and believes in right-hand trade tariffs. We in Sweden know that trade creates growth and builds bridges between nations and between people. Sweden is a small, export-dependent country. In my county of Västmanland we have many large companies that have the world as their market. At the same time, many SMEs are at the forefront of innovation and technological development. But too rarely do they enter the world. My question to the Prime Minister is what the government is doing for more small and medium-sized enterprises to get out into the world and dare to invest.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-318	Mr President, I would like to It is a very important part of business policy to get more companies to start and grow. The Government's export strategy focuses on this. How do we get more people to take part in a large market? We have many strong, innovative companies in Sweden that are developing new products, but too few are exporting. That is why we are developing the export strategy. It starts here at home in Sweden, where we have export advice. It should be all over the country so that companies know that they can turn there for help. We need to help companies with venture capital. That is why we have restructured state venture capital so that it becomes more accessible and more companies get access to it. That is also why, as a third example, we are increasing our presence in key emerging markets. When Sweden is there, there are skills there, and then you can help Swedish companies to get out on that market. These are some of the things we do, and we will do more.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-325	Mr President, I would like to On the square of Kristinehamn is Hamid Aryan and hunger strike. He fears for his life. He is a Christian, and the Migration Board has decided that he must be sent back to the Iran of dictatorship. Those most affected by the regime's abuse and repression are ethnic and religious minorities, LGBTQ people, trade unionists and sympathisers with opposition groups. In 2015 alone, at least 977 executions were carried out, according to Amnesty. The Prime Minister will travel to Iran from 11 to 12 February. On his journey, he has a business delegation led by Minister of Trade Ann Linde. The Government's goal with the trip is to increase Swedish trade with Iran. But issues of human rights and democracy shine with their absence. I wonder how the Prime Minister explains to Hamid, who does not get asylum in Sweden, why the Prime Minister wants to strengthen trade relations with a regime that oppresses and executes religious groupings to which Hamid belongs the Christian group. Above all, does the Prime Minister think that Iran is a dictatorship?
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-328	Mr President, I would like to Sweden and Sweden's government always stand up for human rights and freedoms, no matter where in the world they are challenged or violated. This means that we are addressing the issue of human rights in a variety of forums and talks. We do it in different ways. We do so in the way we think makes the best difference for the people who need that support. I am absolutely convinced that this is not the way to go to isolate countries where there is the kind of question mark that Håkan Svenneling is now reporting. It's not the best way. I don't believe it. I think a much better way to go is to see that countries can develop – also in terms of business, jobs and such opportunities. We also have a much better opportunity for dialogue with that country to ensure that there is an improvement when we have such contacts. It's one thing to stand in a corner and point at everything that's wrong. It is a much harder way to go to try and correct it, but that is the Government's ambition.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-332	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! The whole of Sweden may never have been more up-to-date. From around the country, there have long been reports of the closure and centralisation of government activities. Public services are changing in its tracks. The parliamentary rural committee set up by the government recently stated in its report that 10 000 jobs have been centralised in Stockholm over the last ten years. This is up-to-date with the decision of the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration. What is the Prime Minister's view of the Rural Committee's proposal to reverse developments and, with political control, to relocate 10,000 government jobs to the whole country in order to actually get service throughout the country?
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-335	Mr President, I would like to I will not comment on precise figures, but that is the direction we have now taken. For example, part of the E-Health Agency moves from Stockholm to Kalmar. There will be more of that product, so that way is already frightened. But then I think it is important to keep the perspective wider in order to make all of Sweden live. It's not just moving out government jobs that makes a difference, it's the investment we make in regional colleges, infrastructure, broadband deployment, the food strategy with increased food production and forest programmes – all of this, I think, is basically the strength. We will ensure that everything we do provides opportunities for companies and individuals to operate throughout our country. That's the only thing that's really sustainable, so that way is frightened, and we'll continue on that.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-339	Mr President, I would like to At Folk och Försvars national conference in Sälen, the Prime Minister presented the government's new security strategy. It identifies eight threats to Sweden, including energy supply. The strategy explicitly states that EU Member States should strive not to make themselves dependent on energy supplies from third countries. Karlshamn Municipality's decision this week to respond to a request from Nord Stream runs counter to these intentions. This decision will make the EU more dependent on Russian gas, not less. So my question to the Prime Minister is: What is the value of developing a Swedish security strategy if social democraticly governed municipalities still do not stick to it?
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-341	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, it is not the decision in Karlshamn that determines whether Russia is building pipelines or not, but these are different issues. Sweden has been clear that this leadership will be drawn through the Swedish economic zone, but not in our territorial waters – much like when the bourgeois government approved Nord Stream 1. The same conditions apply. We comply with Swedish and international law, and we say to the EU that it is important that the EU and the European Commission now review whether this is consistent with, for example, the Energy Union. That is the task of the European Commission, not of Sweden. Then we had to take a position on the national security interests that we talked about, both in Slite and in Karlshamn, where the scenarios and arrangements are completely different. Karlshamn chooses a road where you take care of this yourself, in your own harbour and in principle with your own staff. It has been chosen to proceed with this, and we in the government have ensured that the necessary measures are taken to maintain security.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-345	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! I am proud of Sweden's efforts during the refugee crisis and of the government's implementation of the instruction law. Sweden operates a joint reception of refugees at EU level, but unfortunately the solidarity we demand there between our municipalities at home in Sweden is lacking. The Moderates have voted in favour of a joint reception in the Riksdag, but we see their party colleagues at local level breaking the law and increasing segregation. Here in the Stockholm region we have seen how Ekerö, Täby and Nacka, which are moderate-led municipalities, have said no to more refugees. Breaking the law must mean consequences and sanctions, just as individuals do. Against this background, I would like to ask the Prime Minister what sanctions, sanctions or measures the government will take against the municipalities that have violated the law on joint responsibility for the reception of refugees.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-348	Mr President, I would like to This is an issue where we thought we agreed that it was a matter of helping each other. Just as we maintain the principle that we are helping each other in Europe, we are going to help each other in Sweden. We thought we agreed on this. Now there are some who question it. The government has a dialogue with the municipalities, because we understand that it may be under pressure. We are looking at time limits to overcome this, but we will not let go of the principle that everyone can help each other. We will follow this very closely, and we assume that all municipal executives actually intend to comply with the law. I can't think of anything else. If this does not happen, we must look at the sanctions that need to be applied, because we are not just going to let this go.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-350	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! I would also like to ask a question about ports, about Karlshamn. Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist said in December that the lease of harbours – it was about Nord Stream 2 – would be negative for Sweden's defence interests. What happened was that Gotland said no, and the question ended up with Karlshamn. In the municipality there were differences of opinion as to what was to be decided. As I understand it, there were also differences of opinion in the government in the past. I therefore wonder what action the Prime Minister will take in the future to ensure that Sweden's security is not jeopardised. It is not only about Sweden's security but also about our environment: the Baltic countries and the rest of Europe.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-353	Mr President, I would like to The government made and still makes the assessment that the lease of ports impairs the security situation. Slite and Karlshamn are two different models. In Slite, the idea was to rent out the port, and there would be a facility where the company in question would have its business. In Karlshamn a ship comes in and unloads, and it is Karlshamn harbour, with its own staff, that receives, stores and ships away pipes. It's a completely different arrangement. But even with this approach, the government believes that there needs to be reinforced security measures, and that is exactly what the government is doing. So yes, this type of activity affects safety, but in the case of Karlshamn we can deal with it with the measures we are putting in place. This involves, among other things, much closer contact between authorities and Karlshamn's companies so that we can follow the business closely. So we've taken care of security.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-357	Mr President, I would like to The waiting times in health care in Sweden are among the longest in Europe. A new report from the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare with the open comparisons from 2016 came in the days – A good care, it is called. It clearly shows a development with growing care queues and growing differences between county councils and regions regarding waiting times in healthcare. The Euro Health Consumer Index 2016 also confirms this: Swedish healthcare is lagging behind the rest of Europe. The long waiting periods contribute to this. Now I don't want to hear any snicker talk about what it's like in the Social Democratically ruled county councils, because they're at the bottom; the six worst are sosse-controlled. What will the government concretely do to break this trend with major regional differences and growing healthcare queues?
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-360	Mr President, I would like to From 2014 we have been able to see how the queues have grown. This is a problem that we must all address. One thing that I know doesn't work is to lower taxes and remove resources from healthcare – it doesn't work. We must have more resources, and that is why the government provides them. This is done in the form of welfare billions, which are directed directly to health care, and the investment in cancer care, which needs to be more equal across the country. Such work is ongoing. We also need to make much better use of digitalisation; that work has begun. We need not least to let the professionals be professionals. Our employees in welfare should not be governed by detailed rules that the previous government introduced in its time. The pros are supposed to be professionals, and we're going to use their skills. It is perhaps the most important ingredient.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-363	Mr President, I would like to Last Friday the memory of the Holocaust victims was commemorated: 6 million people who lost their lives in one of the worst genocides in history. In Malmö the memorial service was surrounded by rigorous security – massive police posse, security checks, name lists. It is extremely tragic that survivors of the Holocaust and other Jews today, 2017, in Sweden, in Malmö, should have to be protected by the police when they visit the synagogue.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-365	Mr President, I would like to What is described now makes me very upset. We must therefore show seriously that all forms of discrimination, racism or whatever – it is not okay in Sweden. We need to work much more proactively on this, but we also need to show the Jewish congregation, for example, that their security will increase. That's why we're providing resources to make you feel more secure here and now. It is important that we now conduct the discussion here in Sweden and remind ourselves of this very thing. Those who were present at that time and experienced this horror are now passing away. They're out of time. Then we must remind each other of this. Therefore, I am concerned when it looks as if a party in the Swedish parliament that has just Nazi roots is normalizing in Swedish politics and approved by one of our major parties. I'm worried about that.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-369	Mr President, I would like to Last week, the government presented Sweden's first aviation strategy. It is good that the government is now taking a stronger approach to aviation, which plays an important role in the transport system and is a driving force for both growth and employment throughout the country. An important area highlighted by the government in the strategy is our regional airports. The previous government created today's system, with both state and regional airports, but they forgot to develop a long-term plan for how regional airports should be financed and operated. This has created great uncertainty in the country. Therefore, a review will now be carried out to clarify the responsibilities of the state and of the regions, so that we can have long-term sustainable solutions. Another important area highlighted in the strategy is the future of Arlanda. Can the Prime Minister develop how the government now intends to work with Arlanda?
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-372	Mr President, I would like to Arlanda is important for the country. We all have to understand that domestic aviation belongs there too. A municipal councillor in Örnsköldsvik, Vidar Fahlén, once said that if everyone thinks that only Arlanda is profitable, you can fly up and down at Arlanda and see how well it is going. We need regional flights and regional airports. That is why, of course, we should include it in the aviation strategy. But Arlanda needs to develop. Now, as I say, we have a half-sized airport north of town and half a mile south of town. We need to do something about this. There is competition here. Now we're third, with Norway ahead of us. Oslo is ahead of Arlanda. We need to develop Arlanda, and that job needs to start now. The contract with Bromma expires in 2038, which is why we set up a special council consisting of business representatives, politicians and other actors, so that we can work out the best possible conditions for a viable Arlanda and good regional flight.
i-da87a312d4eb39e2-375	That concludes today's Question Time, and I would like to thank the Prime Minister and fellow Members.
