i-610366d7f0df0219-12	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Christian Barenfeld has asked me how I and the government intend to act in view of the situation regarding democracy and human rights and the recent negative political developments in Belarus, as well as how the government sees further and more powerful sanctions against the regime. The government is closely monitoring developments in Belarus and is still concerned about the situation regarding democracy and human rights. The 2016 parliamentary elections were marked by a significant number of irregularities and lack of transparency, and most of the Odihr recommendations were not taken into account. Belarus is the only country in Europe that still applies the death penalty, with four confirmed executions in 2016. Recent arrests and detentions are unacceptable and signal a step backwards for the freedom of demonstration. Given Belarus's shortcomings in terms of democracy and human rights, Sweden advocates an EU policy linked to Belarusian action and the development of the situation in Belarus. Through the FAC Council Conclusions of 15 February 2016, the EU's policy towards Belarus has allowed Belarus to enter into closer relations with the EU, but it is a process due to developments in the country, not least as regards respect for human rights. The policies pursued are continuously evaluated by the EU. During the Annual Sanctions Review in February 2017, the EU decided to extend the remaining restrictive measures against Belarus, as the situation with regard to democracy and human rights remained largely unchanged since the Council conclusions of February 2016. For Sweden, it is important that the relationship between the EU and Belarus should continue to be linked to Belarusian progress in democracy and human rights. The policy of sanctions is part of the EU's policy in relation to Belarus, but also the broad approach that now applies to EU policy means that we make conditions and demands for improvement. We are sending out the signal that there is an opportunity for closer relations with the EU, but at the same time we are clear that it is a process that is taking place gradually and where the pace depends on what is happening in Belarus. Sweden has been given the floor to ensure that the requirements that the EU previously linked to the sanctions, in addition to the release of political prisoners, will continue to be part of the EU's policy in the future. Better respect for human rights is central. Sweden is and will continue to be a driving force in this work. The EU has stated in a statement, which Sweden obviously supports, that recent events are contrary to the policy of democratisation that Belarus has undertaken to pursue. This, in turn, is a prerequisite for a deeper relationship with the EU. The possibility of influencing the situation in Belarus requires a strong EU policy based on unity and continuity. It should be characterised by the commitment and exploitation of potential opportunities to promote change in Belarus, particularly in terms of democracy and human rights. At the same time, the EU can reintroduce sanctions if developments so require and if we can reach agreement on it.
i-610366d7f0df0219-18	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister for his answer to my interpellation. I regret that, unfortunately, we have reason to continue discussing the political situation in what is commonly called the last dictatorship of Europe. However, recent negative developments in Belarus continue to make the discussion necessary and important. On a number of occasions in recent years, we have discussed this issue after I intervened with the Foreign Minister on the situation in Belarus. This has mainly concerned Sweden's position and actions in the relaxation of the EU sanctions against the oppressive regime. These are currently almost abolished, with the exception of some old sanctions which have been in force since the turn of the millennium. The basis for this seems to be that there are some within the EU who have been given the impression that over the years progress has been made on democracy and human rights in Belarus. Unfortunately, I find it difficult to find any factual basis for those conclusions. The sanctions that existed were based on the fact that the country had political prisoners, lacked free media and had an electoral law that laid the foundations for the widespread electoral fraud that is taking place and has taken place in the country at every election since President Lukasjenko took office. Since then, the electoral law has not changed or improved. The media have not been freed. In the case of political prisoners, some were temporarily released; then they were released again. There are new arrests in political manifestations. It happened less than three weeks ago. Since then, arrests have continued. Among the gripped we find familiar faces, such as Anatol Lj abedzka, Vital Rymasje 中 ski and Mikalaj Statkevitj, who are party leaders from oppositional parties, and a number of others. We also find the former youth leader and long-standing political prisoner Zmitser Dashkevich. Many have been released after a short time in prison, but some remain in prison, including Zmitser Dashkevich. At the weekend, the authorities also stormed the offices of the human rights organisation Vjasna, and the members present were arrested by violent means. Belarus has a parliament made up of Members who have obtained their positions through elections that have not been considered by any serious assessors or election observation organisations to meet the standards of free and democratic elections. The same goes for the country's dictator, who has been in the post since 1994. It was because of what I have now explained that I asked my questions in the interpellation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs: how does the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government intend to act in response to what has happened in Belarus and what has been raised in the interpellation, given the recent negative developments in Belarus, and how do we see further and more powerful sanctions against the regime? In the interpellation answer, there are many fine words. I do not really think there is much difference between me and the Foreign Minister. But it is very much in the same vein as: our government is closely following developments in Belarus and continues to look with concern at the situation in terms of democracy and human rights. – – – The EU has stated in a statement, which Sweden obviously supports, that recent events are contrary to the democratisation policy that Belarus has undertaken to conduct. ..................................................... None of that is wrong, but I miss the Swedish commitment, delivery, concrete action – the Swedish leadership on the issue. I do not doubt the intentions and fine words of the Foreign Minister, but I note that it seems far from words to concrete action and results. It simply seems to be a lot of talk but rather little workshop. I would like to know: What does Sweden do? How does the Minister ensure that Sweden is the driving force in these matters in the way we were before? How do we act in the EU? What is the mission to the Swedish Embassy to do on site?
i-610366d7f0df0219-27	Mr President, I would like to First of all: thank you very much, Christian Holm Barenfeld, for ensuring once again that we are discussing Belarus in this Chamber! That's good. It is a debate that is particularly timely now, given the recent events. Both you and I – and everyone else too, I suppose – are very concerned about the events of the late tea era. More than 200 people have been arrested simply because they have manifested their opinion of unfair legislation. The way in which power here has suppressed peaceful demonstrators and curtailed freedom of assembly and expression is unacceptable in a country that wants to develop its relations with the EU. There is much at stake, and it is also up to Belarus now to decide in which direction relations with the EU should develop. Let me remind you that we also agree on sanctions. Sweden neither initiated nor pushed the issue of ending most of the sanctions against Belarus in February 2016, but it was not possible to reach agreement in the EU community on the extension of sanctions. Then we would have risked standing without a comprehensive EU policy for Belarus. I think we need to be aware of this. If the only tool we have here too is sanctions, it requires us to reach agreement. Then we need to discuss it properly in the European circle to ensure that we do not do anything that is just a blow to the air or reveals that we disagree. I haven't heard that there are any other tools in your toolbox either, Christian Holm Barenfeld. I believe that leadership must be about what the dialogue with Belarus looks like. How, for example, do we act through our embassies or through our representation, as I said? I believe it is incredibly important – more important than ever – to ensure that we are in contact with civil society organisations and an opposition. That is what we are traditionally working on, and I believe that this must also apply to the European Union. It is about ensuring that we constantly invite them and let them have a voice in our contacts with Belarus. The rest must be a discussion taking place in the European circle, in which we must ensure that we find a way forward. We shall continue to maintain the dialogue and make it quite clear that what we have seen recently are elements of a policy that does not bring Belarus closer to the EU, but vice versa. We need a strong and common European policy; it is absolutely crucial to be able to influence developments in Belarus. If they can break wedges directly between the Member States, we will be weaker. Sanctions are one of several tools that the EU must use, and it is important to choose what is best placed to deliver. I believe that we should send the signal that there is a possibility of closer relations but that it is a process that is taking place gradually and where the pace depends on what they are doing in Belarus. There will be an ongoing evaluation by the EU, and Sweden is and will continue to be a driving force in this work.
i-610366d7f0df0219-34	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. I hope and believe that all members of the democratically elected chamber of the Swedish Parliament are in favour of human rights and those who violate these rules. However, I would like to know how the government is acting in concrete terms and how Mrs Wallström intends to act on this matter. What is Sweden doing not to follow the EU but to continue as we have been after the elections in Belarus in 2010, when the violence escalated and it became very much like that? At that time, Sweden, together with Poland, pushed the hardest and imposed the sanctions which were subsequently abolished. It is important that the EU is on the boat. It is important that the whole of Europe speaks clearly. This does not in itself prevent Sweden from being critical and loud alongside, but it is important that we push on within the EU. What is Sweden doing there to still be the one with the takpin when it comes to our eastern neighbourhood? We know that there are different priorities in different parts of the Union. These are issues where action can also be taken at other levels, for example through the UN. We have the Security Council and not least the Human Rights Council within the UN, which in itself can have challenges. How do we act at these levels? It is important that we act on these fronts so that Sweden continues to drive. We know that we have high credibility in these matters. Action by Sweden is expected almost from the oppositionists, journalists and, not least, from the women in Belarus who have been subjected to severe violence and imprisonment in recent weeks. If we look at neighbouring countries Russia, Ukraine and other countries, we also see there that there is a great expectation that Sweden delivers and that Sweden is the one that speaks with the clearest voice. At the same time, we have seen something else in recent years regarding the government's contacts, which often take place via the embassy. As recently as last summer it was a meeting between the Swedish Embassy and the authorities that clearly stated that they want to see normalised relations between Sweden and Belarus. And of course you want to. But it is not about what Belarus we are seeing today, but it assumes that it will be another Belarus. Personally, I do not believe that there is any chance of achieving any kind of democratisation by the dictator Lukasjenko, but I think that we need to be clear and demand a change in the political governance of Belarus and that we need to work towards this. In addition, we shall ensure that we are clear in our strategies by supporting the opposition movements and the defenders of freedom in the country as best we can. It must also be matched by the fact that we are tough on those who violate human rights. We must be tough on Lukasjenko and his closest helper, who is responsible for the gross violations of human rights that we now see and which we have seen fundamentally since Lukasjenko took office in 1994 and with greater clarity and force. Again, in what concrete ways does the Minister of Foreign Affairs intend to act to keep Sweden alive on the issue of human rights and the current situation in Belarus and in the Eastern Partnership area?
i-610366d7f0df0219-41	Mr President, I would like to I think that Christian Holm Barenfeld can ask anyone in Brussels, and they will say that if any country is pushing issues about the Eastern Partnership, for example, and has a commitment to these countries, including the view of Belarus, it is Sweden. We have made sure that these issues are at the top of the agenda, that we do not forget them and that we use all our diplomatic tools. As I said, I think that, at this stage, more focus should be placed, as you yourself suggest, on ensuring that civil society organisations are invited and in contact with them. This applies to both the EU and individual Member States. Otherwise, it should not be excluded that the sanctioning tool can be used or even extended. But it requires unity. I think we need to be aware of this so that there is not just a blow in the air. 20 years of sanctions against Belarus have not led to any changes. So it can be said that it has its limitations. That is why, of course, diplomatic contacts continue to be very important. Once we have established such a dialogue, it must be used to say: what you are doing now will take you further away from contacts with the European Union and a rapprochement with the European Union. That is why we hope that there will also be continuity in our contacts, and we want to ensure that we can correct what has gone mad. We do not have any other instruments, unless you mean that we should use violence against Belarus. It is this type of effort that we can make. We can ensure that we use the whole diplomatic toolbox and that we engage with those who are in opposition, those who are civil society and voices for freedom and an EU approach. We can make sure that we push the rest of the way. I do not rule out that we can come back to the issue of sanctions, but that really does require agreement. We should not allow Belarus to show disunity in the EU community, for it will only serve their purposes.
i-610366d7f0df0219-47	Mr President, I would like to Nor do I believe that sanctions in themselves solve everything and are only salutary in this case. But I believe that they are important and that the very risk of being exposed to them has a deterrent effect. This is particularly the case if both economic and human sanctions are applied – making it difficult for them and ensuring that they are neither allowed to enter nor landed in countries. We can also ensure that the resources they have within the European Union, for example, are frozen. The question then is: Has Sweden taken the initiative to ensure that the EU more clearly looks at the possibility of reintroducing tougher sanctions, and if so, in what way? And will the government strengthen support for civil society, freedom defenders, independent journalists and oppositionists given the hugely negative development that we are seeing now? So many people who have been arrested in recent weeks have not been arrested in Belarus since the 2010 elections, and the methods do not appear to be more pleasant this year than they were in 2010. People disappear and show up a few days later. No one knows where they've been, and then it turns out they've been in a KGB prison. People who have been political prisoners for a long time and who have been released are now back in prison. Basically, the negative order is restored. Everything is as it was before, and freedom is basically completely strangled in the country. So what will Sweden do? Has the government already taken the initiative? It has been two weeks, and the only thing I have been able to find out is the fact that there have been two tweets from the Foreign Minister expressing concern. One final question concerns the MR reports that previously came from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. During this parliamentary term, I have not understood that such reports have been presented. It would be important to have them in place.
i-610366d7f0df0219-52	Mr President, I would like to First of all, we've completely changed the way we report MRs. We have first presented a letter setting out the principles. We will also present country reports, and then we will do so at the same time. In the autumn we will produce country reports, and there will be about a hundred of them. This means that it will not be the same as before when we reported on continent for continents several years apart, but we will actually be able to get an overview. We have an MR ambassador, and we have actively taken MRs to us in a completely different way as one of our most important priorities. Thank you very much for an important and fruitful debate. I have said this before and can repeat that it is clear that we share a strong commitment to the future of Belarus. It is difficult to find things that separate us, because I actually think that we basically have a great consensus, thank God, about what is necessary. Sweden has won a hand in order that the demands that the EU previously linked to the sanctions in addition to the release of political prisoners will remain part of our policy in the future. We have driven these issues very clearly in the European Union as well. The signal is that a closer relationship between Belarus and the EU should be gradual and conditional and that the EU should therefore continuously assess the situation in Belarus. It also means that our work is closely linked to this, and we will be stronger if we do so together with the rest of the EU and other EU countries. Our voice hasn't weakened. We ensured that these Council conclusions were as clear as possible as regards calls for improvements in the area of human rights and democracy, and we were in favour of extending the remaining sanctions. We will continue to be an active and critical voice in shaping the EU's policy on Belarus, and we will take our own steps to defend human rights and democracy.
i-610366d7f0df0219-58	Mr President, I would like to Hans Wallmark has asked me if I agree with the conclusions made by the Swedish Armed Forces on the benefits of being part of a defence policy cooperation based on treaty-bound defence obligations, on which grounds I believe that bilateral defence cooperation Sweden has today makes Sweden safer than if Sweden were to be a member of the NATO Defence Alliance and if it is my position that Swedish NATO membership would strengthen Sweden's ability to live up to the Declaration of Solidarity in concrete action. Mikael Oscarsson has asked me if I share the opinion of the investigation that a Swedish membership of NATO would be conflict retention and whether it is my view that, if Sweden is attacked, we will do just as well without being a member of the treaty-bound NATO defence pact. I choose to answer the questions together. The security situation in our neighbourhood has deteriorated over time. This assessment is reflected in the evidence now received from the authorities with a view to further work on future defence decisions. It is therefore natural and urgent that there be a discussion of various defence-policy collaborations and their strengths and weaknesses. In an uncertain environment, it is important that the Swedish security policy line is firm and clear. Security is built in solidarity with others. We continue to invest in increased national military capabilities combined with enhanced cooperation with other democratic states and organisations. In order to build this network strongly and firmly, we also need to make use of the full range of foreign and security policy instruments. It creates predictability, promotes peaceful development and raises the threshold for military incidents and conflicts. The Swedish Declaration of Solidarity occupies a central position in Sweden's security policy and has broad support in the Swedish parliament. Sweden will not remain passive if a disaster or an attack strikes another EU Member State or another Nordic country, and we expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. Sweden should therefore be able to provide as well as receive civilian and military support. We are preparing for this both nationally and through our bilateral and multilateral cooperation. A concrete example is that in the autumn Sweden will carry out Aurora 17 which is the first and largest exercise of its kind in more than 20 years, where all combat forces and more than 19 000 men and women will participate. In addition, a large number of authorities and several other countries participate. Of our bilateral defence cooperation, Swedish-Finnish is the most far-reaching and is a high priority for the government. By creating freedom of action to act jointly, the threshold for incidents and attacks is raised, which in turn contributes to greater stability. The cooperation strengthens the military capabilities of each country and has become even more important in the light of the developments in our neighbourhood. Our bilateral cooperation with the United States is of great importance, particularly in view of the important role of the United States in security in Europe, its military capabilities and technical know-how, and its important role in international operations. With the Joint Declaration of Intent (SOI) of June 2016, our enhanced bilateral cooperation with the US has been confirmed. In the rest of the Nordic countries, together with Denmark and Norway, and with the Baltics, Poland and the UK, there is also extensive cooperation in the field of bi- and multilateral defence. Defence policy cooperation covers different degrees of intensity in a number of areas such as exercises, research and materials, interoperability, international operations and information exchange. We continue to develop our multilateral engagements in parallel. In the light of a deteriorating international situation, it is of central importance for Sweden's security and prosperity to defend, preserve and strengthen European cooperation. Sweden has a strategic interest in a united and strong EU. Article 42(7) TEU commits all Member States to providing assistance and assistance with all available means to another Member State if it is subjected to an armed attack on its territory. Finally, within the framework of our military alliance freedom, we are developing our partnership with NATO. The partnership with NATO contributes to the development of the Swedish Armed Forces, both the national defence capabilities and the ability to carry out operations in and outside the area together with others. By participating in NATO's most advanced and complex exercises, Swedish units have the opportunity to practice together with others in larger contexts, which increases the operational capacity for participating units. Participation in exercises also sends a security policy signal that we take our share of responsibility for security in the immediate area. Equally important is the political dialogue and exchange of information with NATO on the security of our neighbourhood. In common with NATO, Sweden and Finland have an interest in understanding the development of our neighbourhood and contributing to increased security, predictability and stability. To fundamentally change the Swedish security policy doctrine creates a completely new situation that may risk paving the way for an increased tension. The government does not intend to contribute to a sharp caste in today's uncertain situation. We will continue to work on the basic and long-term strategy of strengthening national defence capabilities, deepening bi- and multilateral cooperation and pursuing an active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy based on military alliance freedom. These are measures that raise the threshold for military conflict and contribute to stability and security in our neighbourhood.
i-610366d7f0df0219-71	Mr President, I would like to It was a solid list that the Secretary of Defense provided for more than six minutes. Yet he managed to avoid the questions I asked with a certain amount of art, but I will repeat some of them. Does the Minister of Defence share the conclusions of the Swedish Armed Forces on the benefits of entering into a defence policy cooperation based on treaty-bound defence obligations? Does the Secretary of Defense see these advantages? On what basis would today's various forms of collaboration and cooperation lead to increased security compared to a Swedish NATO membership that would be just such a defence obligation? How does the Minister for Defence argue about a Swedish NATO membership and its possible opportunities to further live up to the solidarity declarations referred to by the Minister for Defence? Mr President, I would like to I have requested the document on which we are fundamentally discussing it. It is the Swedish Armed Forces' documentation that has been submitted to the Ministry of Defence. Previously, the document was classified, but the secrecy has now been removed. There are 15 pages that I think are worth reading. The Swedish Armed Forces states: In recent years, several developments in the Western world have contributed to increasing this uncertainty. This is a description that I believe the Secretary of Defense and the undersigned share. The Swedish Armed Forces then writes in their background: Only cooperation that a potential attacker deems credible contributes to the threshold effect. Uncertainty in the international system means that no cooperation with automatic means should be seen as credible or stable. Cooperation should generally be more credible if it is based on treaty-bound defence obligations. ..................................................... I would like to repeat: cooperation should generally be more credible if it is based on treaty-bound defence obligations. It is the very core issue that the Minister of Defence, not without a certain skill, managed to avoid in his response that he read out in 6 minutes and 15 seconds. There has been another investigation by Krister Bringéus, which was presented last September and which we agreed on when we concluded the defence agreement. Krister Bringéus states in his investigation: a clear military effect of NATO membership would appear to be that the current uncertainty as to how joint behaviour in the Baltic Sea crisis would appear, be eliminated and that the overall conflict-responsive capacity of the West would thus be likely to increase. ..................................................... It's clear. In previous debates, the Minister for Defence and also the Minister for Foreign Affairs have waved this aside and said that one cannot read the Bringéus investigation as being a b ibel. But you've never got into the thing. The conclusion that Bringéus points out in his excellent investigation has not been tested. The Minister of Defence refers to the Declaration of Solidarity and that it applies to both sides and that it is widely cherished here in Parliament. But what is the challenge of the declaration of solidarity is that it says that we can provide help and that we can accept help. But we don't know if the help's coming. We can believe, we can think, we can hope, we can pray, we can wish, we can appeal, but we do not know if others are ready to assist us with less than that it is tract bound. Therefore, Mr President, it would be refreshing to hear the defence minister's point on the fundamental issue of the advantage of treaty-bound defence obligations.
i-610366d7f0df0219-83	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Defence. It is clear that this debate is taking place at a serious time. No less than three times in the answer, the Minister for Defence returns to the fact that the security situation in our neighbourhood has deteriorated, and that is the case. The question is how, in the situation in which we find ourselves, we are making sure to strengthen our ability. The Minister for Defence returns to cooperation with Finland. It's important that we talk about it openly. The simple truth, which I think the Minister for Defence agrees with me, is that the combined deterrence capacity of Sweden and Finland is too small. It's not enough. The Secretary of Defense will be happy to tell you if he has any other opinion. Let us also be honest that as long as there is no formal defence alliance with Finland, these are pious hopes. Then I would like to ask the Minister for Defence: Does the Minister for Defence think that Finland would go to war with Russia if Russia were to take a piece of Gotland? Alternatively, would Sweden go to war with Russia in such a situation if Russia were to take part of the Finnish patchland? It's a very central question. Mr President, I would like to It has gone a little back and forth over the years when it comes to the French. What about NATO? In 1966 it was decided to have one's own line. On 3 April 2009, it had been decided to return to full participation, full participation. And what was the reason? Well, they said you can't defend yourself on your own, and it's about France with its credibility and amazing history. If you in France are determined that you can't manage yourself, what makes the Secretary of Defense think we'd be on our own? It is clear that you are either a member of NATO or not. The former secretary-general has expressed it so that either you are pregnant or you are not. Now the former Social Democratic Prime Minister of Norway is Secretary-General. Norway, Denmark, Poland, Germany, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and several countries are members of NATO. There are 21 EU Member States that are members of NATO. And which countries are outside? Sweden, Finland, Cyprus, Ireland, Malta and Austria. These are proud countries, but there is no alternative. We cannot have this double game. We can't be free riders. I hope that the Government will take the opportunity to answer the questions I put in its next speech.
i-610366d7f0df0219-90	Mr President, I would like to There is no double play at all. It's a concept that's taken completely out of the air. It says more about Oscarsson's fantasy world than about realities. We have openly and clearly stated exactly what we are doing. It is based on the parliamentary decisions that have been taken. All the collaborations that we are now building are therefore anchored in the Swedish Parliament. Under normal conditions, these defence collaborations strengthen the ability to act together. They improve the ability to prevent threats. They promote the possibility of obtaining political or military support when necessary. They strengthen trust and trust in defence cooperation. They build stability and a long-term perspective. Security and cooperation networks are set up to provide or provide support from the outset in the event of a crisis. This is what the cooperation aims at. It also includes information exchange that strengthens our international relations. It includes exercises that directly increase our own ability and create trust between countries. It includes interoperability that provides direct opportunities to act in crisis situations together with others. It includes equipment collaboration that enhances the quality of our systems and the capacity of our systems while contributing to research and development. It includes international operations in which, together with other countries, we take responsibility for different parts of the world. We will then also have the opportunity to assimilate this support from a national perspective. Membership of NATO is not a shortcut to solving national shortcomings. We can look at what it looks like: whether you are in NATO or not, it is your own defence efforts that primarily apply in the event of a crisis. Since Bringéus's investigation is suddenly elevated to some kind of Bible in this context, I would like to make one thing clear. He writes that a Swedish application for membership should lead to a political crisis with Russia, although its scope and duration are difficult to assess. ..................................................... You are talking about NATO membership as if it were a spell. What I am talking about and what we are doing is creating partnerships in reality, which are building networks that can be used in a given situation. This can be seen in relation to what your government once did. You did very little when it came to international cooperation. In our two-and-a-half years, much more has been done than was done in the eight years when you were in government. What they contribute in practice to these collaborations and exercises, and whether there is trust in giving and receiving help, is crucial in a possible crisis situation. Sweden has supported France on the basis of Article 42(7) of the Treaty on European Union. It is a practical expression of this. Of course, we expect similar support in a similar situation. Unlike you, we are not prepared to go into uncertain terrain where we can calculate with increased tensions and difficult to assess situations and where we are messing with long-term and stability. My view is that what we are doing today in the combination of national increased capacity and enhanced cooperation, which is our military geography position, creates the best stability and long-term perspective. I'd like to warn you about a sharp throw. I think you're reckless.
i-610366d7f0df0219-100	Mr President, I would like to In the terrible time we are in, I share the view that we must continue to strengthen Swedish defence capabilities. The Minister of Defence refers to what has happened over the past two and a half years, but without mentioning that this rests on broad defence arrangements of which the Moderates have been a part. It is good that we now have what the Swedish Armed Forces themselves describe as a trend break. However, the Minister for Defence cannot ignore the fact that it is through long, gnawing and not entirely straightforward negotiations that we managed to ensure that there was an increase of over 10 billion. This was done through the defence decision that forms the basis for the specialisation decision that has been in force since 1 January 2016. As recently as a few weeks ago, we were also able to present together that there are unexpected but gratifying reinforcements of 500 million already in the spring budget. There has been a development of security policy in Sweden from what is described in a book as the hidden alliance. In the 50s and 60s, various things were planned together with NATO, and today we see something that I want to describe as loose cooperation. I'm proposing a visible alliance instead of hiding what we're doing. Instead of planning with others in secret, we will make it visible and be proud to be part of such an alliance. A few things in the Secretary of Defense's contributions surprise me a little. On several occasions, he stresses that with practice and exchange we are planning the possibility of providing support to others, and in so doing we can be expected to receive support. This is true, and it is deeply cherished by the Swedish Parliament. But the problem for the Minister for Defence, Mr President, is that he cannot know that others are coming to our aid. He can believe, hope, think, wish, pray and appeal, but he can never know as long as it is about different forms of cooperation. It is in this respect that the treaty-bound defence cooperation differs. If you have one, you know. Let me once again give you a piece of the evidence that the Swedish Armed Forces have produced, in which there is great wisdom: Operational collaborations that include cooperation in the event of armed conflict can mean access to more military capabilities according to the necessary political decisions. It therefore makes a greater contribution to the threshold effect and is concretised in joint defence planning, exercise activities and other practical preparations, including legal and political preparations. Operational cooperation based on treaty-bound mutual defence obligations means that effective access to the military capabilities of other parties can be a starting point for national defence planning. At the same time, this implies an obligation to provide support to other parties. Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of Defense had over six minutes in his first speech and he had four minutes in his second to explain what is the difference between the tract-bound and the more soluble cooperation. He didn't succeed. The truth is, it can't be done. For there is a difference between believing, hoping, wishing, praying, appealing and knowing. That is why we, who are talking about a Swedish NATO membership, want to create a visible alliance, not a hidden alliance or a loose cooperation. It should be an alliance that holds and in which we know others will come to our aid. This is the fundamental difference, and it wants the Minister of Defence, of course for various reasons, not to defend or explain. However, I try to make it visible.
i-610366d7f0df0219-108	Mr President, I would like to The government is telling us that we are prepared for normal conditions. The important thing is that we also have a readiness for if the worst happens. We must be able to be prepared if Sweden is attacked. The former army commander said last year that Sweden could be at war in a few years. Then we must be prepared for it. There is a huge difference between being part of NATO's partnership. Georgia is in, and Ukraine joined in 1994. NATO could not do anything in Georgia, nor in Ukraine. So there is a big difference between being a full member. In fact, everything boils down to the fact that it is better, Mr President, to prepare in good time with your friends than to improvise if the accident is there. The difference is spelled defense planning. The Government knows that practice and practice are the things that have an effect. Through joint defence planning, we can help each other in a completely different way, with, for example, the guarding of the Baltic Sea, than if we are ourselves. Every time the Minister for Defence meets representatives of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, I am sure they say that Sweden should join NATO and that it would make a big difference. We know that if the worst were to happen, they would have to fly over Sweden. Membership would contribute to security for Sweden, but also for our surrounding world. Just as Krister Bringéus wrote in his investigation, it would be conflict retention. He also said Russia would not like it, but they are already counting us on the NATO side. However, it would lie down, and we would have a completely different strength. This is important that we get in. It turns out that an increasing proportion of the Swedish people subscribe to such a view. There's been a trend break. In 2015, the SOM Institute conducted a study in which more are in favour of NATO membership than against, 38 percent are in favour and 31 percent are against. I'm sure the Secretary of Defense knows Wilhelm Agrell. He is a professor of intelligence analysis at Lund University, and has commented on a statement from the Supreme Court in the following way: a general's purely military-operational reasoning is absolutely inviolable, namely, if you have not prepared any operational cooperation, if there is no joint planning, if you have not agreed who will do what, if you have not committed yourself and put your hand on the Bible and promised what to do, and, moreover, have no resources, then this is not worth much. ..................................................... It is a very good thing that the Armed Forces leadership is making a clear statement and showing the difference between tract-bound collaborations and saying that they would have a significant positive impact if we were there, because then one can see what military capability exists. I hope that the Minister for Defence will now answer these questions. Not least, I wonder if it is the view of the Minister for Defence that if Sweden were attacked, we would do just as well as if we were members of NATO.
i-610366d7f0df0219-117	Mr President, I would like to I just want to inform you that in connection with the writing of articles in the media about what the Swedish Armed Forces said in the reports, Communications Director Marcela Sylvander wrote in a post on the agency's blog: That's wrong. ..................................................... What has been officially announced by the Swedish Armed Forces is: This is wrong. When it comes to believing, hoping, praying and appealing, it is soluble. What I think you don't quite understand, Hans Wallmark and Mikael Oscarsson, is that when we practice together with others we build interoperability. When we exchange information with others on a largely daily basis, we build very strong bonds. When we do all these things with Finland, we build common capabilities that can be used in the given situation. You speak something like that what is happening is of nothing and zero value. Then you have found your own spell. That's joining NATO, and everything's gonna be fine. But you never touch what would be the effect, as Mr Bringéus also points out. It is that we will have to face a difficult situation to assess, with increased tensions in our neighbourhood. It is clear that this type of tension will hit Finland the hardest because they have the long border with Russia. Then Oscarsson paints scenarios. What happens if they invade northern Finland? What happens if they do something on Gotland? It is extremely difficult to stand here and speculate on what one and the other leads to. One thing I can say, and that is that if something like that happens, it affects our whole part of Europe, including NATO. It moves the entire positioning, and we're all involved in that kind of situation. What do we do in contrast to when you were in government? We build the networks, exercises and capabilities in practical action while you didn't do it in the same way in your time. Now you spend most of your time talking. When it comes to the defence policy agreement and what has happened throughout the journey from the start in the Defence Committee, I could give a thorough account of how I looked at the actions of various actors and counterhenters. Perhaps not in all respects would be a flattering account. But I am proud and pleased that we finally agreed both there and in the two deals we have made. But I think we have different perspectives on what the story looks like in reality. When it comes to giving and taking, Wallmark, you may know that we have adopted the host country agreement. We will now practice giving and receiving support in connection with the Aurora exercise this autumn. It is an exercise that is thus given a new dimension of sharpness. It is also a reality about what could happen in a possible crisis situation. We work with these issues in practical craftsmanship while you mostly talk and have only one solution to the problems. We work with a wide range of countries. It is Finland, the Baltic countries, Poland, Germany, the Nordic countries, the USA, NATO's partnership and the EU. It's a wide palette. Just because it doesn't look exactly the way you think it will not do. But we do it in practice while you're talking about just one thing and one way to solve it. Finally, I know that our line is respected by the others and also by NATO.
i-610366d7f0df0219-125	Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of Defense thinks we're talking. He is probably basically quite happy that we have spoken up the defence budget now to the spring budget in 2017 and also contributed to a broad defence settlement where there will be more money than the government announced. I think he's basically pretty happy that we're talking and also helping deliver. I'm gonna get the Secretary of Defense right on two things. One is that a conflict will affect the whole of the Baltic Sea region. That is why we cannot ignore the threat picture that exists. The second is we build ability through collaboration and collaboration with others including practice activities. There's no difference. What is the difference between the minister's line and the one I represent is that he doesn't know if the help is coming. He may believe, hope, desire, or pray, but it is precisely through the tract - bound obligation that one knows. That's the question he goes around all the time. I note that the Secretary of Defense wants to wave the articles away with some communications director having written something on a blog or on Twitter. In essence, I think it is better to go to the point. This is why the Swedish Armed Forces have submitted the evidence to the Ministry of Defence and read the 15 pages. Then a completely different picture emerges. This is the image the Minister of Defence avoids responding to in substance. He falters Bringéus' investigation by reading it as if it were the Bible itself. He waves away Svenska Dagbladet's articles because some communications director has written something. The entire base is a plea for strength that exists in tract-bound obligations. Mr President, I would like to Then we must ask the Minister for Defence the final question. What other treaty-bound obligation exists in our neighbourhood beyond NATO? What exactly is the Swedish Armed Forces arguing for?
i-610366d7f0df0219-131	Mr President, I would like to Speaking of the statements, it is sufficient to read before: Only cooperation that a potential attacker deems credible contributes to the threshold effect. Cooperation should generally be more credible if it is based on treaty-bound defence obligations. It says as it says, and it's not hard to understand what it means. With regard to Finland, is it the case that the Government wants us to be part of a formal military defence alliance with Finland? It'll be an important thing. It is a political balance. If there's anything, that's what it's all about. The Secretary of Defense says we're messing with stability and everything. It's the other way around. It strengthens predictability. It is a main point in Krister Bringéus' investigation that it would be conflict retention and would strengthen security both for Sweden and for the outside world. The government says you're talking. I can tell you something. I will speak on this matter as long as I have the opportunity, because I think it is an important thing. I will speak warmly to increase my defence capabilities. There is a real need for both civilian and military action. We work with that in different ways, and we need to do more. But then we have to see that it is not enough. When the day is over, however, it is somehow so that if we imagine that we are being attacked it is NATO that will come and help us. But we cannot count on such a thing, Mr President, if we are not members. Finally, it is much better to prepare well in advance with your friends than to improvise. If we are full members, we can also gain the tract - bound security.
i-610366d7f0df0219-137	Mr President, I would like to There were really no substantive comments about the effect of an increased tension in the event that Sweden changes its security policy doctrine. There you have a field you do not enter and really touch with something greater depth, Hans Wallmark and Mikael Oscarsson. If we were to change our security policy doctrine in both Sweden and Finland, this would mean a new dramatic situation in our part of Europe. What we do in practice is with substance. I would like to say that we have agreed on those elements. That is not something I think is a problem to note. I'm proud of the deal. But what matters is that we do something to get an increased military capability. NATO also has first-hand responsibility for the defence of its own country. We do all this exercise both nationally and with others. It's substantial. This is what builds interoperability and the collaborations that can be used in a crisis situation. What we do is actually the practical craftsmanship of everyday life. It's something that I think feels pretty good. But you're only talking about one thing. It is that NATO membership itself solves things. If you are to get something in a crisis situation, you must have shown that you are prepared to give something in peacetime too. This is what we do through our participation internationally and in all exercise activities in our neighbourhood. You have to show that you are prepared to increase your own ability, which we do. You can compare with the time, two and a half years, that we have been in government power. Much more has happened when it comes to increased military capabilities and cooperation with others than it did for eight years with a bourgeois alliance government.
i-610366d7f0df0219-142	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me if I and the government stand by the position that Swedish cement production on Gotland should be maintained and developed and how this should be ensured. As I have stated in a previous interpellation response to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, the government takes the protection of Sweden's nature very seriously, as we have shown through the 2015 decision on a number of Natura 2000 sites on Gotland. I have always been aware that the decision changes the conditions for future lime mining in Bäseträsk. Current and planned lime mining in other parts of Gotland is not affected by the decision. As the government communicated already in the summer of 2015, our view is that on behalf of Gotland we make the assessment that further measures involving larger areas will not be needed to comply with Sweden's obligations under the EU's Species and Habitats Directive. The lime industry on Gotland is important for Sweden. In June 2016, the Government received Peter Larsson's report Sustainable Gotland. The report points out, among other things, that Gotland is different from other parts of Sweden because there is no dominant company in the manufacturing industry. It also notes that Cementa plays an important role as a process industry through the positive business relationships that are created with subcontractors in a wide range of smaller companies. Larsson therefore proposes in the report that a centre for new industrial development be established on Gotland. Based on the proposals in Peter Larsson's report, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Agency for Growth and has offered the Municipality of Gotland (Region Gotland) to carry out efforts for SEK 100 million to create sustainable regional growth and business development 2016 – 2019 in Gotland County.
i-610366d7f0df0219-146	Madam President, I would like We have a lot of area protection in Sweden. As many as 25 per cent of forests are excluded from forestry. Then you count both the impediment and the formal protection. Over 50% of the country is made up of national interests. Many are old with vague descriptions and have changed since they were pointed out as national interests. In Sweden, the County Administrative Board and the municipality can establish nature reserves themselves. In addition, we have Natura 2000 sites, which we report to the European Commission and which are usually not reviewed. Even if a species dies out, moves or reaches such a good status that it no longer requires protection, the Natura 2000 area remains. The question then arises as to whether the problem of area protection in Sweden is precisely the area and that the area must increase. I rather believe that it is efficiency and whether it is anchored in the local area that we need to work with a lot. Having said that, I agree with the Government that the protection of Sweden's nature should be taken very seriously. Madam President, I would like With an increasing population, we need to build more, quite a lot more. Only in the coming years is the demand, which is being made on us, for tens of thousands of homes to be built. Add to this The Stockholm bypass, which is a major project, or why not the government's announced high-speed project. Both housing and other infrastructure will require a mix of materials. Maybe it's natural. We see that the economy is quite turbulent. Input prices are going up and down faster now than they have done in the past. You can't build an economy based just on a low oil price or just on the fact that the labor force is very cheap. You need a mix. This is also how the energy market works, one might say in this context. You need different parts to achieve stability. The same will be true of materials. We're gonna need a lot of wood. I believe that Swedish forests contain growth, jobs and development. But we're also going to need cement. We will not be able to afford to opt out of individual materials when the need is so great. It would be irresponsible to put an end to cement production in Sweden. Madam President, I would like That's why I've put this interpellation. I want to know whether the promises made in 2015 are still valid and what those promises really mean. Different interpretations can be made. What was then said by the then Minister for the Environment Åsa Romson was: On behalf of Gotland, we make the assessment that further measures that affect larger areas will not be needed to fulfil Sweden's obligations under the EU's Species and Habitats Directive. When we are here today, we can interpret it in different ways. I take it that the deadline was 31 August 2015. However, since part of the original proposal was broken out and sent back to the county administrative board and re-examined, it could also be interpreted as: Yes, we have fulfilled our obligations when it is also announced. I think that interpretation can affect Gotland very far. I would like to hear a little more from the Minister for Economic Affairs about how to interpret it. Should we go to the interpretation that might have been done that day or the one that the County Administrative Board is doing right now? Is it then a stop date, or is it a stop date when what is now being processed by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has been established? In connection with that, I wonder: Is 500 hectares that File Hajdar includes calling a large area? It is a question of interpretation and definition.
i-610366d7f0df0219-156	Madam President, I would like Thank you, interpellant, for the interpellation! We have discussed this issue before. As you can see if you compare the answers, the government answers very consistently. We're answering the same thing now as we were then. We haven't changed our mind. But the government has not received any new proposal, which makes the whole discussion very speculative. There may later be a proposal from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to the government that may contain things. I think it is important to say what the government's opinion is. On behalf of Gotland, we consider that further measures relating to larger areas will not be needed to comply with Sweden's obligations under the EU's Species and Habitats Directive. You can take the cement industry in a slightly larger way. The Prime Minister was also very clear about this. The cement industry is important for Sweden. The cement industry in Gotland plays a major role in the development of business, not least on the island. It is correct that I would like to see more built in wood in the future. I believe that there is a great economic potential for Sweden, as we now increase housing construction, to build more in wood. But you can look at the latest statistics. I think 90% of multi-residential buildings are built in cement today. Last year, we increased housing construction strongly. I think we came up with 63 000 planned homes last year. It was some kind of record year. You have to go back almost to the days of the million programmes to find those levels. There is strong pressure in the cement and construction industries in Sweden today. That's a good thing. This makes it possible to make future investments and perhaps cope with employment issues and things that have otherwise been tougher in bad economic conditions. We also see this in the labour market as a whole. With this demand, around 150 000 new jobs have been created in the Swedish economy since the elections. This is a positive development. I find it a little difficult to talk about something that may happen in the future. We're getting a little in the middle. In fact, authorities are assigned to do their job. When, at a later stage, they hand something over to the government, it is the government's responsibility to examine those questions. This will also be the case in this case. We answer, as you can hear, exactly the same thing now as then. We were serious then, and we're serious now.
i-610366d7f0df0219-161	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Minister for that answer. When it comes to building in wood and cement, I think we will see more of both. In the future, I think we will find it difficult to say what is a wooden multi-residential building and what is one in cement. There will be many houses that are hybrids, perhaps with a frame in cement and much more in wood. I look forward to this development and believe that we have wonderful days ahead – we have only built in wood for about 25 years. With regard to unemployment since the elections, I think it is clear that what we are seeing now is a boom. On the other hand, the level of unemployment affected by policies, equilibrium unemployment or persistent unemployment, is about the same. We have had debates about this before. I have had a debate with Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, who tried to explain it with tides: when the tide lifts up all the boats, and therefore even those who are far from the labour market will get jobs. I myself believe that it is a simplification that is not so good, because when the tide turns, one will realise what is underneath the surface, namely structural problems in the labour market that need to be resolved and that Ylva Johansson has not addressed. Madam President, I would like The Minister also mentions several of the Government's previous promises and specifically mentions Stefan Löfven. He said you see an opportunity to invest in the lime industry. The lime industry is there and must remain. We've heard that several times. I remember that when Mona Sahlin was Minister of Civil Protection she said about the same thing, and as for Åsa Romson's promises from 2015, they have been repeated by the Minister for Economic Affairs but also by the Prime Minister. Nevertheless, there is a great deal of concern about what new Natura 2000 sites can mean. I know that last time it was solved by appointing Peter Larsson as contact person for a business package or rescue package – there are many different names for it. People call them Peter Larsson money. That could be good. I think that this 100 million to business development, if used properly, can lead to really good things. 100 million is a lot if you use the money properly. But if it gets stuck, if you don't really know where to apply for the funds and if the contacts between the Regional Board Office and the Swedish Growth Agency don't fall out so well, 100 million can be very little money. It is therefore difficult to comment on the consequences of this 100 million. It is clear that this is in the future and that it may be difficult to make absolute promises about it. But it also doesn't really feel sustainable that you want to snort yourself out of proposals after proposals that affect Gotland. It's supposed to be some sort of compensation, some kind of exception. If we look at, for example, the airline tax, we see how social democrats in Umeå, Arvidsjaur and Gotland want regional solutions, special solutions and exceptions. The question is whether we should not simply avoid implementing reforms that require the provision of rescue packages. It becomes a little doubtful whether it is really good for the whole of Sweden if the whole of Sweden also asks for individual exceptions. On the next question, what is to come, there has been no proposal from the Environmental Protection Agency. I see it as the same message from the government now as before, but can the Government say anything? Is there anything that has changed since the previous trial that would allow one to consider re-evaluated its position and introducing new Natura 2000?
i-610366d7f0df0219-172	Madam President, I would like It is true that we have good features in the economic cycle, and this is due not least to investments that are part of what is driving growth today. Housing construction is one of the explanations, but it is also about foreign and domestic investments made in industry, for example. These are the highest industrial investments in Sweden since the financial crisis. All of this creates a higher level of activity in the economy, in investment opportunities and also saves the jobs of the future. Then I think we should be careful to put forward proposals that slow down the willingness to invest in Sweden in the form of maintenance of the railways or the extension of education and training systems. It is also about housing investments, where the government has made a strong package to increase the construction of rental housing in Sweden at reasonable prices – all that is needed in this economic situation to keep growth going. I am concerned that lack of or lack of investment in housing, infrastructure or education systems will mean that the Swedish economy is slowing down and slowing down more than today, and that is why I think our economic policy is smarter than the Moderates' economic policy. Unemployment is not stagnant. After the financial crisis, we remained on an unemployment rate of 8%, you might say. Now we have settled below 7%, and what is exciting about this economic development is that of the 150 000 new jobs created, over 100,000 have gone to people born outside Sweden. This shows that when a policy is pursued that leads to an increase in employment, so that unemployment goes down, we reach groups that otherwise find it difficult to enter the labour market. More needs to be done but not through efforts to reduce investment in housing, education or infrastructure. This is the same statement, as we have noted, from the government now and then. When identifying Natura 2000 sites, the Environmental Protection Agency will primarily provide protection for deficiencies identified by the Commission. Also nationally identified shortcomings can be the basis for the identification. Given that the Government now believes that Gotland has complied with EU requirements under the Species and Habitats Directive, other national shortcomings will be taken into account. Then it is just as the interpellant points out and as the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency says in its directives to the county administrative boards so that positive landowner anchorages are important. These are exactly the directives that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency works with when looking at nationally identified shortcomings. But the government's response is the same now as before. As a Member of Parliament, you have a responsibility or an interest in monitoring various issues so that they do not end up wrong, but I also think it is important to see, with the positive efforts that the government has made after the previous decision, that we are serious about positive business development on Gotland. We did not come up with any initiatives, but we worked with Region Gotland in particular when it came to developing initiatives that would get the most benefit. It is a broad palette of measures that also focuses on the development of industry on Gotland.
i-610366d7f0df0219-181	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. As far as unemployment is concerned, I would like to maintain that it is, for the most part, economic activity that matters. It is not really Ylva Johansson's policy that makes the big difference. The Swedish Financial Control Agency wrote in November 2016 as follows: The overall assessment is that the effects of all reforms take each other out in terms of the number of employees during the forecast period. However, the labour force is reduced by almost 0.5 per cent, corresponding to about 25 000 people. Thus, the level of balanced unemployment is 0.5 percentage points lower in 2019 than it would have been without the reforms. Average working time and productivity and thus GDP are also falling. With regard to the promises made by the Minister and the national requirements that can also be taken into account when making Natura 2000 sites, I think it is a good thing to clarify. Because then you cannot blame that it is the European Commission that says that we have to do Natura 2000 sites, but it is actually in the hands of the Swedish Government – more now than it might have done in 2014 and 2015. As far as Gotland is concerned, it is my county, and that is why I am monitoring an issue that is close to me. After all, it is my relatives and friends who see that their jobs are at risk if there are to be new Natura 2000. For Gotland, I would like to say that there are several threats. All in all, it contributes to concern. It worries others, and it worries me too. It is a question of the Minister for Finance making a proposal on airline tax that is detrimental to accessibility and competitiveness. We risk losing a lifeline to the mainland, because we simply cannot choose to take the train. At the same time, we are seeing the Minister for Public Health come forward with proposals that threaten one of our fast-growing companies, Gotlandssnus, which are praised for nicotine-free alternatives. To this can be added the project of the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Environment on cement production. There is concern. I hope that the Minister for Enterprise will take with him what I have said here today, and I wish him every success in the negotiations with the Green Party in the government!
i-610366d7f0df0219-188	Madam President, I would like I think there are always concerns in a society, and that should be taken seriously. But the development potential of different parts of Sweden must also be taken into account. Gotland has enormous potential. We have only seen the beginning of a development where I think the tourism industry in Gotland will continue to pick and develop even better, not least with the new ferry terminal and the unique location in the middle of the Baltic Sea. There is a challenge in building a long-term sustainable tourism industry that benefits the whole island. The whole issue of educational initiatives is linked to the campus area on Gotland. The government has made it clear that we want more education efforts around Sweden because they create an infrastructure for growth in companies also on the digital side of the economy. Gotland today is a prominent player and has a huge opportunity to contribute to the digitisation of society. Peter Larsson's work has contributed to our work at the Ministry of Industry where we have wanted to find a form where we can support but not take over regional growth and business development on the island. I think we have found a form in which we can contribute to localising the agenda for an even stronger business community on Gotland. I will continue to work on this, but I am also looking forward to the continued debate with Jesper Skalberg Karlsson on the issue.
i-610366d7f0df0219-192	Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat has asked me what I am doing to follow up on the fact that all children who are legally entitled to mother tongue education are also offered it and to follow up and ensure that education is of good and acceptable quality. Daniel Riazat has also asked me the reasons why I and the government are not proposing clearer wordings on mother tongue teaching in the hourly plan, and what I and the government intend to do to counter the shortage of mother tongue teachers. Let me begin by saying that I share Daniel Riazats's view of the importance of knowledge in the mother tongue. It not only facilitates the acquisition of knowledge but also has an impact on personal identity and intellectual and emotional development. The State's school inspection has a supervisory responsibility to ensure that all children who are legally entitled to mother tongue education are also offered it. As part of strengthening, among other things, native language education, the Government has commissioned the National Board of Education to carry out efforts to strengthen the ability of the authorities to offer a high and equivalent education to newly arrived pupils and pupils with a mother tongue other than Swedish. Target groups for the different interventions include native language teachers, study supervisors in the native language and other staff in comprehensive school and corresponding school forms and the introduction programme of upper secondary school. In the commission on the basis of which the memorandum on the stage-based hourly plan referred to by Daniel Riazat, the National School Administration would base itself on and distribute the teaching hours of the comprehensive school's current hourly education hours over the low, middle and secondary schools. Although native speakers are not included in the national hourly plan, the achievement of the objectives is high. According to rating statistics from the National Board of Education for the academic year 2015/ 16, nearly 60 per cent of the students with a final grade in the subject had a grade B or A. The average merit score was 16.2; the second highest of all subjects in comprehensive school. The lack of qualified teachers is very worrying. With a national collection for the teaching profession, the government wants to contribute to creating a common understanding of the challenges facing the teaching and pre-school professions. On 2 February 2016, the Government appointed the Better School Report through more attractive school professors. The investigator will consider, among other things, whether the exemptions from the requirements for identification and eligibility of teachers in mother tongue should cease and also propose measures to increase the proportion of qualified teachers in mother tongue. In addition, the Government has taken the initiative of legislative changes that will allow the transfer of long-distance teaching, which relates to native language teaching or study guidance, to another principal. It is a valuable opportunity for those principals who do not have access to, for example, mother tongue teachers or study supervisors. These are some of the efforts taken by the government to ensure that mother tongue education is of good quality and to counter the shortage of mother tongue teachers.
i-610366d7f0df0219-199	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. This interpellation debate is not intended for us to debate against each other because we would disagree. Here it is more about focusing on an issue that both touched me when I went to school and affects many young people who go to school today. According to the National Agency for Education, 24 per cent of comprehensive school pupils were entitled to native language education in 2014/15, but only half of them attended this mother tongue education. Let me stop and do a personal reflection. For my own part, it was about fitting in. I wanted to be like everyone else and just speak Swedish. I also often heard at school that I would speak Swedish, not Persian. It was only after a few years, when I got a little older, that I realized how important it is that I also know my mother tongue. Teachers supported me and stressed that it is good if I develop my native language while I read Swedish and all other subjects. The signal we're sending is important. Let us compare with the subject of Swedish. I think it would have been necessary to take swifter and greater action on the subject of the mother tongue. It is not because you do not think that the native language is important but because the subject is not in the regular hourly plan and is therefore not part of the regular teaching. I had my classes in hole hours, after school, in the evenings or early mornings. It was difficult for us students and for the native speakers. Nor did it feel like the native speakers were part of the team, that is, the teaching college. Municipalities do different things. In Rissne in Sundbyberg I have seen that people are working in a fantastic way to include everyone. Then there are other far worse examples. I therefore believe that national coordination on this issue would be a good thing. How does the Minister of Education view the required identification? I am of the opinion that it has been wise to make exceptions. We ourselves know what the situation is with native speakers, and it is unclear what education a native teacher should have. I would like to hear more about what the Minister of Education thinks about the licence requirement and the hourly plan.
i-610366d7f0df0219-205	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the interpellation! I fully agree with the importance of high-quality mother tongue education. It is crucial for people's development and language development. Sweden is an international example in the work of study guidance and mother tongue teaching. When I have spoken in international contexts, I usually borrow a parable from the research. We must not confuse linguistic capital and currency. Although it may sometimes be cumbersome to switch from one language to another, there is a need for capital from the beginning. Developing your linguistic capital in your mother tongue has a value regardless of the language you then usually speak. There is a problem when, not least, new arrivals restrict their linguistic capital. They hope to switch to Swedish so quickly that it causes them to lose words and concepts and thus get less vocabulary. The development of the mother tongue is extremely important. It is good that Daniel Riazat raises the issue, and it is good that we raise the issue. As I mentioned in my interpellation response, we are making a number of efforts. The largest is the assignment to the Swedish National Agency for Education, which came with the great reception of new arrivals in autumn 2015. The Swedish National Agency for Education works directly with development efforts mainly in municipalities that have not previously had a large reception. It is often in those municipalities that we see the major shortcomings in, for example, mother tongue education. Agreements are made between the state, through the National Agency for Education, and the municipalities on which development efforts can make a difference. Not infrequently, the agreement regulates how native speakers should be recruited and how teachers, as Daniel Riazat says, should enter into regular school planning and how the right to study guidance in the subjects should be carried out. There are also general measures, in particular through opportunities for further training. When there has been a large increase in pupils who are entitled to mother tongue education, we must of course quickly recruit more teachers. A lot of them will need further training. Daniel Riazat is asking two questions about the future. One question is about the hourly plan. If we are to put native language as a topic directly into the hourly plan, even though it is not a subject that all students are reading, it will be a major reform. We do not have a basis for this today. The Swedish National Agency for Education's documentation does not provide sufficient preparation material for such a thing. But there is every reason to look further at it for the reason mentioned by Daniel Riazat: Today, it is often the case that these hours end up on for students uncomfortable or sometimes even impossible times, times that are difficult to fit with school shootings and to get good quality in. For many students, too, there is too little time for them to really get a language. This applies not least to those students who have the right to rekindle a language by belonging to one of the national minorities. So there is every reason to look further at this. The second question is about teachers and the requirement for identification. We have three categories of teachers that are not fully subject to the requirements of the licence reform. It is about teaching vocational programmes, it is about some recreational teachers and it is about mother tongue teachers. In the assignment that I have given to the investigator Björn Åstrand is to look at both what efforts we can make to increase the proportion of qualified teachers – which is the very basis for being able to make new demands – and, if you are going to make new demands, what timetable should apply. When can such requirements become valid? It will be interesting to see the timetable, which will come from Björn Åstrand before the summer. It is a good thing that Daniel Riazat focuses on this, not least because many of the measures that really need to be done are those that we cannot do on the part of the state, but as one does on the level of principals, as the interpellier says.
i-610366d7f0df0219-214	Madam President, I would like Once again, thank you to the Minister for Education for your answer. I fully agree with the description given by the Minister for Education. I also think it is positive that work has been undertaken to highlight this issue and to try to find a kind of solution. Nevertheless, I would like to take an example. In this case, it's about high school. In recent years, we have seen that the number of students applying for vocational programmes is decreasing, partly because the eligibility requirements for further studies have changed but also for some other reasons. Let's do something about it. Then an investigation will be instituted. We're gonna get more students to get into high school, etcetera. Here, too, you cannot talk about the headship or that upper secondary school is a voluntary school form. In this case, I understand why it is not within the hourly schedule although I think it would be a necessary reform to simply push the students to go and read their native language. But the question is whether it is not in a similar way that we need to think here. I think it is very good with the investigations and the investigators who are working on this issue and that the Swedish National Agency for Education has been given a mission. But at the same time it feels like the government must express the ambition that all students should read their native language etc. I am not saying that the Minister for Education does not think so, but I think it can send an important signal. Another question here is, as the Minister for Education says, about the headship and how to proceed in practical terms to resolve it. It is the municipalities or private actors who are school leaders today. Then the question is, with the result in hand of the refugee situation that we have had with a lot of young people who have come to Sweden and entered the education system, if it had not been much easier if we had had an education system where the head and responsibility for the school had been on the state. Wouldn't it have been much easier to, instead of going from municipality to municipality and signing contracts with them and in many municipalities reinventing the wheel before the state took hold of this, simply have an equivalent system across the country that is also needed based on the local situation? I personally think that would be a better solution. I have also noticed that the government is increasingly using the concept that the state should take greater responsibility for the school, which is positive. At the same time, one must consider whether this should not be taken to the next step, which is that the state should have the main responsibility for the Swedish school. The question is therefore linked to my interpellation and is about that very thing. Does the Minister of Education not think it would have been much simpler? One final question that also concerns what the Minister of Education said about native speakers and their education and whether or not to have a licence requirement: Is it not also an idea to talk about higher education for native speakers – a kind of teacher education, quite simply? Many who come here are trained teachers in their home country and may need much shorter time to get in. Some people aren't. Is there such concern in the government?
i-610366d7f0df0219-222	Madam President, I would like Firstly, pupils entitled to mother tongue education should not only be offered it but also have the practical opportunity to receive it. That is where it is lacking today, both when teachers cannot be found in the principals and in practical planning when the hours are spent. It is a task for the state and for the principals. Secondly, there is every reason to look further at how this can be synchronised with the hourly plan. Today, there is not the type of subjects that not all students study in the hourly plan, but since this is an issue that becomes big for the scheduling of the students concerned, there is good reason to regulate the teaching time in the hourly plan. We will look at this further, but we have not referred to that proposal today. Daniel Riazat raises the question about the headship of the school based on the great refugee crisis in this case that Sweden was in when so many – 70 000 children, corresponding to a smaller Swedish year-old – came to Swedish school for a year. My party voted against the communiqué once upon a time. Daniel Riazats's party voted in favour. Neither of us can be blamed for those decisions; we were not very old at the time. And yes, the government is definitely in favour of greater government responsibility for the financing of the school. But with that said: How Sweden managed to receive the children who came to Sweden in the autumn of 2015 I do not see as an argument in the headship debate. I am very impressed by the flexibility shown by the Swedish school system when so many came. Had I at the beginning of that academic year tried to tell an authority that it would organize an increase in its activities to 70 000 individuals, an increase corresponding to an additional grade of one year, no one would have said that it was possible. But the municipalities, principals and teachers made it possible, and that flexibility in the school system must not be lost when we take greater government responsibility. There is actually a strength in the Swedish school system that we shall also see, so that we save the right things for the future. The evaluation we have now made of how the Swedish state handled the refugee situation in 2015 does not show that all government agencies showed the flexibility that Sweden's municipalities did. When it comes to the issue of higher education, we have opened a fast track for teachers and other adults who have worked in school and could also become teachers in the Swedish sense, i.e. qualified Swedish teachers. It is one of the fast track that works very well. It is strongly expanded, there is great interest and the first hills are now beginning to emerge from universities and colleges. It is people who will really contribute in the Swedish school with the subject skills they have but many times also as mother tongue teachers because of course they mastered the mother tongue and perhaps even have been teachers of the mother tongue in their old home countries. So that fast track is up and running. It works well. The bottleneck we have is the capacity at the higher education institutions, and we are working on expanding it. Looking at further possibilities for higher education for those who do not have a teacher's background or those who have started working as a mother tongue teacher in school is in the research directives for Björn Åstrand. He will look at how we get more competent native speakers, and then he will have to look at the educational situation.
i-610366d7f0df0219-230	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education. I will be quite brief. As I said, I think it is positive that the government has set up this investigation. I also think it is positive that we have these fast-tracks that we have discussed, precisely because it is so important to get teachers on different subjects but also native speakers and study supervisors who speak their mother tongue. At the same time, the fast track, as I understand it, is aimed at those who are going to be teachers on different subjects etcetera, but the mother tongue is not a focus in itself. What I meant was most of what comes in the investigation – to review this with native language teachers and study guidance in native language and what you can do to have some kind of fast track or education for it. With regard to the second, the responsibility of the state, I certainly do not mean that the municipalities would not have been involved, as they were in this case – they took on a fantastic responsibility, especially some municipalities. At the same time, I think it would have made things easier if the state had had overall responsibility. Then one would not have had to reinvent the wheel before the state came out and signed contracts and so on. Nevertheless, it took quite a long time before it happened. I hope that we have also learned for the future how to coordinate such situations. This was not the last wave of refugees, although we have made Erdo中an our border guard.
i-610366d7f0df0219-235	Madam President, I would like Sweden should have a reception system that works both when it will get and when there will be many people. Then not least school is important. Historically, Sweden has actually succeeded extremely well in giving people who come here both a new chance and the opportunity to contribute in their new country, and the school has been crucial for this. It is a question of system issues at school, and there I know that me and Daniel Riazat often meet. There are system questions about how we finance the school in a good way and how we break the segregation between students so that those who come to Sweden also come into Sweden when they come to school. With regard specifically to the issues raised in the interpellation, I would like to say that mother tongue teaching and enhanced quality in this respect, as well as strengthening opportunities for students to take part in such teaching, is very important. The government is taking several steps to address this. In addition, it is also about study guidance in the native language, which can be at least as crucial in terms of quality for the individual student – that you have the opportunity to keep up with a subject even before you know the Swedish language fully, especially as new arrivals. When it comes to expanding that capacity, we may have even greater challenges. One thing I just mentioned in the interpellation response and which is worth repeating is the possibility of remote teaching, which should be spread more strongly in Swedish schools than has been done so far. The law is fully open to the use of this if you do not have access to teachers in your own organisation. Finally, it is correct that the fast track focuses on subject competence or basic teacher competence, but the teachers who have come mastered a language of course. Some of them have been language teachers and will be a very valuable contribution as native speakers at the schools where they start working.
i-610366d7f0df0219-241	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked the Minister for Finance and Consumer Affairs what measures he intends to take to ensure that cash handling works also in rural areas. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Sten Bergheden recently asked a similar parliamentary question, to which I replied. The State's responsibility for basic payment services covers those locations and rural areas where the need for basic payment services is not met by the market. The basic payment services to which this applies, as decided by the Riksdag, are payment agencies, cash withdrawals and the handling of day funds for traders and associations. Each county administrative board shall, in accordance with the regulation with the county administrative instructions and through the mandate in the regulatory letter, assess annually whether society's needs for basic payment services are met. If this is not the case, the county administrative boards will initiate and implement support and development efforts to improve access to basic payment services. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, together with the County Administrative Board of Dalarna and the Swedish Growth Agency, to support the county administrative boards in, for example, establishing payment service agents in locations where the need for basic payment services is not met. State aid to these payment service providers is managed by the county administrative boards and regulated by the regulation on State aid to basic payment service providers. Today, there are 30 state-funded payment service providers, where it is possible to pay bills, withdraw money and leave day funds. There are therefore funds allocated for this, and the work of the county administrative boards is ongoing in the local and rural areas where there is a need for basic payment services.
i-610366d7f0df0219-244	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer, although I would have liked to see a slightly higher pace of work to ensure that the countryside can live and that we have a payment system and cash handling that works outside the tariffs in Stockholm and the big cities. It is clear that long and tough investigations are needed to correct such concerns, while at the same time it is very fast to both raise petrol and diesel taxes and introduce new taxes in Sweden. Then we don't need to investigate. It's going very fast for the government. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I assume that the Minister sees the problem of cash handling and the consequence of the closure of many ATMs and bank accounts. Our companies and others who have to handle cash in any way are forced to go far in order to manage their day funds and collect change and other things. This also means that we are now burdening the environment in a completely different way. You used to drive this to the nearest bank accounts, but today you get to go maybe four hundred miles to get to a place where you can give up your day funds. This affects not least those people who do not have access to good roads; it is a great burden. The Government set up an investigation to review the Monetary Policy Framework and the Riksbank Act, following an announcement by the Riksdag. Another six months were expected before the investigation was set up at the turn of the year 2016/ 17. It now has two and a half years to look at the issue, until 2019. It cannot be said that this is a particularly high priority or that the tempo is particularly high when you have two and a half years to try to find a solution. It would have liked the investigation to have had some form of interim report, where it could have come up with these parts a little faster than long after next year's elections. Who are the victims, Madam President? Yes, it's our elders. They don't have a bank account. They can't handle their cash. We have our disabled people, who have difficulty handling digital money and are now forced to travel miles to withdraw money that they may need for taxis and other things. Sports associations and companies have their cash funds. This will be difficult because the digital does not work in rural areas either. It does not work to use Swish or card machines due to a lack of digital expansion. My opening four questions to the Minister are: Why has this investigation been given two and a half years? Why should it take so long to review how we deal with cash handling? Does the Minister think this is a reasonable time? Does the Minister think that cash can be collected from a bank account? And does the Minister think it is reasonable to be able to file cash in a bank account?
i-610366d7f0df0219-253	Madam President, I would like I find these debates very interesting. I think I have been discussing these issues during the 15 years I have been here in Parliament, but I do not think they have got any real momentum until this parliamentary term. They first had Swedish cash services. It was shut down. Then the mission was transferred to the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency. In hindsight, you can think about whether it was the best solution. However, that is the solution we have today. There is no other solution at the moment, and this needs to be reviewed. A number of investigations have also been set up. It was expected that a solution would be found. The former alliance government set up an investigation. It came to the conclusion that it would be as it is: the banks have no obligation to hold on to this, but this issue should be dealt with as it is today. It was the result of that investigation. Then there has been an EU directive on payment accounts and payment services. When that directive came to Sweden and was laid down, a rapid investigation was set up. That investigation did not conclude that you should have this either. You haven't been able to get a good system going. We have not been able to see this in the investigations that have been carried out so far, and this must be done so that mistakes are not made. Sometimes it is said that this can be left to the banks. In that case, all banks are rarely meant, but they mean the four major banks and possibly the savings banks. Then the friend of order can think about the big discussion that has been when it comes to having more banks. We have now received a number of niche banks. Then I think one can question why the niche banks should be exempted from the rules. Where is the reasonableness of this? It must be borne in mind that technological developments in this area are taking place very quickly. If five years ago we had said that you could pay with Swish via your phone you would probably have been surprised, because then you hardly knew what it was. There has been a lot of progress. Finally, let me say something about the investigation. It is not the case that in two and a half years you should investigate how to deal with cash handling in the country, but the investigation is much more extensive. A total evaluation is made on the basis of advanced studies produced by two economic professors, Goodfriend and King. It is about financial stability, how the Riksbank should be organised, whether there should really be six Deputy Governors, what it should look like in the future, what role the Board of Governors should play and so on. Cash management is a small question. I think it would be sympathetic if a partial report were to be presented which deals with this issue, because it is burning and hot, but it has now been dealt with for a long time.
i-610366d7f0df0219-262	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden's interpellation is important. It deals with issues that are still of great importance to many people. The image of bank accounts disappearing is truly a true picture. There are a lot of places that no longer have a bank account. If the bank is no longer present in the area, it no longer matters so much whether the bank has the obligation to deposit or withdraw cash. This is not the only change that is taking place, but it is perhaps the biggest change that matters in this area. The local banks are disappearing. But then ATMs disappear to a greater extent, and that is because people don't use them much anymore. Most people in our society don't use cash more than in exceptional cases. Swish, the new method to pay, is growing very fast. There it is the large banks that have merged and found a solution that customers are now turning to. In my answer, I did not use the investigation to which Sten Bergheden refers, because I honestly do not think it is really relevant. I believe that this investigation, which deals with the Riksbank, will essentially concern quite different issues. It is about how we will organise the Riksbank, how the Riksbank's independence will be in the future, and about issues that are of a different nature than the issue of daily cash handling, although this issue is also included among the topics that are possible to address. I therefore do not think that this long and tough investigation is so relevant to talk about. Instead, the question is: What do we want? We have a model that the former bourgeois government was involved in developing. The changed circumstances. Today, the model is that the county administrative boards have the task of keeping track of how cash handling around Sweden works. In places where there are problems, where you have difficulties with the submission of day funds and it is not possible to collect and leave money somewhere, the county administrative board is supposed to be able to be active and go in and make a procurement. So do you. It has increased in recent years from 16 to 30 different offices around Sweden that have been procured in this way. In my county of Norrbotten there are four offices. In counties with less sparseness it is a little fewer. But this is a system that works. There is money set aside for this in the state budget year by year. That money isn't usually used to the full. My question back to Sten Bergheden is: What do the Moderates want? I think it is very unclear what the Moderates really want. Do you want us to spend more money, or what are you looking for?
i-610366d7f0df0219-269	Madam President, I would like There's going to be a rather strange discussion here. We are talking about bank accounts, ATMs and other things disappearing from the countryside, and as a countermeasure, the government has put in an investigation for two and a half years to see what can be done with the Riksbank's responsibility. I got an answer from Börje Vestlund here where it was said that this was the small part of the investigation and that it might have been done a little earlier. I share that view. However, it becomes even more strange when the Minister suggests that he believes that this is not even part of the investigation. Then the question will not be resolved at all by the investigation. The investigation is therefore only intended to investigate the Riksbank otherwise and not to look at how to solve cash handling. If so, it is obvious that the government has given up completely on this issue. Smaller associations, older people in rural areas, disabled people and others who need to be able to handle ordinary money in some contexts now have no support anymore. In addition, the ATMs are now closed. It is bad with a government that goes country and country around and talks about how to get a living countryside while putting on one tax after another to tax the countryside without having higher ambitions in terms of how the smaller companies should be able to manage their cash funds. There are several companies that have contacted me and told me that they have concerns about this. They have to keep the money at home in the safe, with an increased risk of robbery and other things that result from them going a long way to deliver the money that they do not need to keep in the store. It is also expensive to use these card accounts. I heard from a person who has a small shop where the purchases are perhaps SEK 100 - 150. The fee is 3.50, which means that if he has 200 purchases a day, he adds 700 SEK to handle this. It is clear that it is stressful for a small company to pay such fees – and also for a system that may sometimes not even work because connections and other things are falling apart in rural areas. Again, I didn't get an answer. Does the Minister think it reasonable for a bank to be able to handle cash, i.e. both receive and give it away? It would be interesting to know whether the Minister has any ambition on this issue. Madam President, I would like Surely we cannot have as an ambition that it is the county administrative board that will take over cash management in this country and that we will pump tax money into the system so that the county administrative boards can ensure that one can manage a payment system that should be fully legal and be able to be used everywhere. We have just issued new money in this country, but we have no – or very few – banks that can receive it. The government has gone up and sat down in the gallery. It has set up an investigation to be completed in two and a half years, and it is not even certain that the investigation will look at this part. I think it is extremely passive on the part of the government to just sit there in the gallery and wait in and see what happens. The next step, Madam President, attempts are being made to blame the old government and that it did nothing. In fact, this is how it is-- listen and be amazed, Minister--that you are in power at the moment. You're the one who can do something. You are responsible for doing something. However, you are not doing anything; you are sitting in the gallery. Please answer the questions, Minister. Do you think a bank should handle cash into and out of the bank?
i-610366d7f0df0219-278	Madam President, I would like In addition to barking, as Sten Bergheden likes to do, one can ask what the Moderate Coalition Party thinks. What view do the Moderates have on the matter? Having had discussions with my colleagues in the Committee on Finance, I would say that they are very hesitant that the banks should have cash management at all. That is the truth that prevails. As far as the card payments are concerned, I am very sorry, but nothing is regulated by law. I think it will be very complicated if we are to regulate this by law, but if you want to regulate it by law, you have to come up with such a motion. However, there is no such exercise submitted during the last general exercise period. I only have two minutes of speaking time, but let me tell you something. In fact, it is companies in the Stockholm region that contact us MPs from the region and say that they find it difficult to hand in cash. So do not try to turn this into a city – a land issue, because then I believe that all of us Members from the Stockholm region and other metropolitan regions are setting their foot down. This is a burning issue for many small businesses in Stockholm as well. These are often those who have rather small cash deposits and do not think they can afford to deposit the money. I can, of course, be horrified by the fees to the banks – I may think they are very high – but it is not that we can regulate this on the part of Parliament. As I said, the Alliance government had the chance to set up investigations on this, but it did not. We have had an investigation that did not take hold of the issue, but now it is clear in the directives. Don't say anything else!
i-610366d7f0df0219-282	Madam President, I would like In answer to the question asked by Sten Bergheden – if you are going to be able to leave and collect cash in a bank account – I can say that I personally think it is reasonable that you should be able to do so. But I hesitate on the question of whether we should introduce a law that says that all bank accounts should receive and hand out cash. First of all, I don't think it makes much difference for many of them Sten Bergheden talks about. These are places where bank accounts have already disappeared. Should we make a difference, we must also have a law that says that there should be bank accounts in these places, and which banks is it Sten Bergheden think we should force to have local bank accounts everywhere? Is it Nordea, or is it Swedbank? Which banks are these? What do the Moderates want here? I think it can be reasonable to talk about what you want when you have the attitude Sten Bergheden has here. He shows himself rather cocky on the matter without saying anything about how he himself or the Moderates think you should solve it. We have a system in Sweden today where the county boards have to deal with the issue. We have money allocated to the state budget to enable the county administrative boards to make procurements and ensure that there is cash management in places where it is needed. Does Sten Bergheden think that there should be more such local procurements and deals where there is cash management, or does he want a completely different system – or a legislation, which I have no idea what that means? I am willing to discuss all these issues, but I think it is reasonable that we should not just go up the speaker's seat and say that it is difficult. We know that it is a bit difficult for some people and that it is quite difficult for those who find it difficult to reposition themselves in the age of digitalisation. But if you have the attitude Sten Bergheden has, I also think that you should be asked for a little answer about what you want.
i-610366d7f0df0219-287	Madam President, I would like The Minister is eager to get any explanation from the Moderates as to how we could solve this, and I understand that. There are no proposals to this effect. You don't have any ideas from this government, and you don't have any thoughts. I am of course in favour of the investigation; that is why we made the decision in Parliament to appoint it. But the interesting thing is that the government first took six months, after the announcement, before setting up an investigation-- which will deliver something after two and a half years. That is the absurdity I am talking about when bank accounts are closed, ATMs disappear and people are affected out there. The government is setting up an investigation that is virtually never finished. That's the concern. Please add an investigation that is willing to go through the monetary policy framework and the Riksbank Act! That's what we wanted. But now I am a little worried, Madam President, given that Mr Vestlund says that perhaps this could have been put forward earlier if thought had been given to it. Yes, it had been presented by the time the investigation mission was completed, it had come forward earlier. But what makes me most worried is that the Minister doesn't even know if this is in the investigation or not. In fact, we will end up in a situation where the government has dropped the issue altogether. I would like to thank you for your answer that it is perfectly reasonable for a bank to be able to handle money. I also think that this is perfectly logical given that we have the payment system in Sweden. So it's okay. This does not hold up, Madam President. I think, of course, that we should speed up the investigation and look at how we intend to resolve this. Because it can't be that it should be the county boards that will solve the cash handling in the countryside, can it? In fact, we should be able to find a system to enable our banks to manage it reasonably.
i-610366d7f0df0219-292	Madam President, I would like Then we got an answer from Sten Bergheden. The answer was that he is obviously in favour of setting up the investigation. He said nothing else and did not make any concrete proposals that we should legislate on more bank accounts everywhere in Sweden or that we should legislate on the existence of systems in any other way that we have no idea. Sten Bergheden is only because we set up the investigation that has already been set up. That's fine, but I don't think that makes many souls happy out there today. I think they'd be more valet if we actually said they could go to the county administrative board. If you think it is very problematic with cash handling in the area where you live, you can actually turn to the County Administrative Board. It's not that far away – it's in the same region that you live in – and there's government money to support change and make sure there's more local offices assigned to deal with this in the areas where it's difficult. It's a solution-- I haven't heard of anyone else right now. Previously it was Posten who handled this, but we no longer have the Post in that sense. Instead, they are now a company that works in a completely different way and no longer has any responsibility for cash management. We have had different systems, but what was introduced during the last parliamentary term is still the only system we are talking about, what I have heard.
i-610366d7f0df0219-296	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has asked me if I have been informed of what the approximately 150 IS-returners are doing in Sweden, what material I commented on Umeå Municipality's work against violent extremism from outside, about my position that the national coordinator against violent extremism has succeeded in his mission to counter radicalisation and extremism, and whether the government will take measures to ensure that these issues of security and terrorism are addressed together. Let me begin by confirming that the work against violent extremism and terrorism is a very high priority of the government. The person who committed a terrorist offence shall be prosecuted and punished. A criminal investigation shall be initiated when there is reason for it. It is the judiciary and the Swedish Security Service that are responsible for dealing with people who pose threats to Sweden and who are suspected of crimes, and the government has taken initiatives to strengthen the judicial capacity. The government has tightened up the criminal justice system. For example, on 1 April 2016, special criminal liability was introduced for terrorist travel and the reception of terrorism training. On the operational side, the Swedish Security Service has strengthened its investigation activities with the aim of developing the investigation work against identified travellers. The Government has proposed in the budget proposal for 2017 that the Swedish Security Service should contribute SEK 650 million during the period 2017 – 2020, including to strengthen the work against terrorism. More recently, several people have been convicted of terrorism-related crime, including terrorist offences committed in Syria. At the same time, society needs to be made resistant to violent extremism and terrorism. Effective and long-term prevention is therefore also important. Since 2015, the Government has greatly strengthened the National Coordinator's resources and also ensured that relevant authorities work with preventive measures. Among others, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, the Swedish National Board of Institutional Affairs, the Swedish National Defence Research Institute and the Swedish Children's Ombudsman are now tasked with working on these issues. The number of authorities, municipalities and organisations involved in the prevention of violent extremism has never been greater. It is the responsibility of the Swedish Security Service to carry out intelligence work and to take measures to prevent terrorist attacks in Sweden. It is therefore in the mission of the Swedish Security Service to have more detailed information about the approximately 150 individuals who have returned to Sweden from Syria and Iraq, among others. In order for the municipalities to be able to make relevant efforts for this target group, it is important that municipal activities via the Police Authority are informed by the Swedish Security Service that there are returnees in the municipality. This information chain must work in order for municipalities to be able to make efforts within their area of responsibility. However, there are important aspects of confidentiality and integrity to be addressed. The Government Office is currently preparing a request from the Police Authority for a review of the confidentiality rules in this area. For the government, it is important that there is a structured preventive work against violent extremism in place in the municipalities. Our ambition must always be to reduce the risk of serious events occurring. Municipalities should therefore develop ways of working to meet the challenges of violent extremism. This also applies to the work of managing returnees from Syria and Iraq. Umeå is an example of a municipality that has developed preparedness and collaboration to deal with issues of violent extremism. It facilitates the preparedness of returnees. The work of the municipality cannot begin only when a returnee is back. When it comes to municipalities that have concrete experience of working with just returnees, Örebro is a good example. The Government estimates that the preventive work of municipalities has been significantly strengthened since 2014. All municipalities today have a contact person or a local coordinator for the questions. More than half of the municipalities have, or are currently developing, an action plan or guidelines on how to deal with the issues. The coordinator has visited almost all of Sweden's 290 municipalities and conducted targeted training efforts regarding violent extremism on more than 200 occasions. The coordinator has also assisted a wide range of stakeholders with expert support. This has in many cases meant a more active consultation. Compared to where it began during the last parliamentary term, my assessment is that the work has taken many important steps forward. I would like to conclude by emphasising that the prevention of violent extremism will be organised by an existing authority from next year, as previously communicated. The National Coordinator submitted its proposal on the future organisation and responsibility of municipalities to the Government on 20 December 2016. The report is referred and the proposals are now being prepared in the Government Office.
i-610366d7f0df0219-310	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank Minister Alice Bah Kuhnke for her answer to my interpellation. When I read the answer, I wonder if the Government has read the annual report from the Security Service – it is not just a matter of carrying the report, but it should also have been read. There is a lot there, both about those who have travelled to Syria and Iraq for terrorist purposes – to the so-called Islamic State – and about returnees. There we also get information that it is not only the returnees who pose a threat to Swedish interests and to our democracy. Even those who have tried to travel, but have failed, and those who are here and are involved in radicalisation, recruitment and financing of terrorism are a threat. I noted in the reply, Madam President, that some of the proposals that I and the Liberals have been pushing for at least two three years – which the government has said no to every time – are now being repeated in this response. We can start with the issue of information sharing. Local authorities have alerted the government that this is not working. The National Coordinator, who is under the Ministry of Culture and the Minister, has warned that this is not working. We have regularly, officially this summer at the latest, presented a proposal requiring changes to the confidentiality legislation, so that the Swedish Security Service can provide information to the police and then down to the Social Services, for example. In his reply to the Liberals' proposal, Minister Ygeman said that it was not necessary to amend the Act on Public Access and Confidentiality, since the channels between Säpo and the municipalities are functioning. This shows, however, that this is not true. It does not matter, Madam President, which government minister is responsible for these issues if, within five to six months, different answers are given on such important issues as national security and anti-terrorism work. We have also proposed mandatory pre-trial investigation against anyone who comes back from the Islamic State and these conflict areas. Here in the answer, we were told that there would be a preliminary investigation if there were a reason for it. However, if you do not have a preliminary investigation, the Security Service cannot, as it is today, call these people to question them. We think this is a shortcoming. We think that everyone should be investigated for crimes, and if you have not committed any crimes and are not suspected of anything, you should be dismissed. I specifically mentioned Umeå because the Government in the SVT programme Agenda commented on the excellent work there. It is possible that they have a local infrastructure, but it turned out that this is not true. The Government has then clarified the comment about Umeå, but let me take the example of Örebro instead. This is particularly interesting, because it says in the Government's reply that Örebro is a good example when it comes to returnees. But the important work done there today is done by a person named Fredrik Malm, and he is a local police officer in the area of Vivalla. But they don't have any outreach. They're not doing anything about radical extremist environments. And there is no action against those who return from the Islamic State. Örebro is particularly interesting, Madam President, because Örebro is the municipality after Gothenburg that has delivered the most terrorist travelers to the Islamic State. I would therefore like to find out a little more about how the government has arrived at this response.
i-610366d7f0df0219-323	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to thank the Government for its answer and also for the answers given by the Government this morning in the Constitutional Committee, in which the Government informed the Committee about the work against violent extremism. I have commented on the appearance that the Government made in the KU in a way that the Government might think is a little unfair. I mentioned that it expressed a conversion under the gallows as a lack of credibility. The background to these words is that the Riksdag, on a proposal from the KU Alliance in February 2016, addressed an announcement to the Government, in which it urged the Government to ensure that authorities and municipalities are ready to handle returnees. In September 2016, in the budget bill then decided by the government, the government reported that it considered the announcement to be satisfied, i.e. that the government considered that it had done what the Riksdag had ordered. The reason for this was that a couple of authorities had issued some guidelines on how municipalities could work on the issues, but these were guidelines, words on paper. When we saw this from the KU Alliance, we said directly that the government has not reported whether there is any activity on the ground that corresponds to the requirement that municipalities have a readiness to handle IS-returners. The Government has not reported which activities are actually conducted around Sweden to handle IS-returners. The result was that a united constitutional committee said that it did not share the government's assessment that the announcement was met. It also states that the KU expects further action from the government. However, as the government and the Government considered that the job was completed in September 2016 in order to ensure that there is an opportunity in the municipalities to deal with IS returnees, it is clear that there is a lack of credibility when the Government is now presenting new measures after the criticism that has been made in recent weeks. I would like to ask the Minister how she could make the assessment in September 2016 that the government had done what the government would do to make it possible in Swedish society to handle IS-returners. I find it difficult to see that the measures that the Government then reported correspond in some way to what the Riksdag demanded and what I think the Swedish people have reason to demand, namely that there is a clear readiness to deal with these people who, of course, the Swedish Security Service considers in some cases can be dangerous. Of course, the starting point is that, to the extent that crime can be proved, crime should be prosecuted. But because of evidence difficulties, crimes may not be prosecuted, and then there must be a readiness to deal with these people. The state must take a much greater responsibility than the state has done in the past. It is quite clear that the model that has been used so far, which refers to municipalities as the first and last instance of dealing with IS returnees, is not sufficient. It is clear around Sweden that municipalities do not have the ability to handle IS-returners. Then my conclusion is that the state must take the lead in this work. It is only now that the storm of criticism has been that the Minister and the National Coordinator are presenting concrete proposals on how the state can take the lead, then in the form of the expert team that has been launched today. I think it is a good measure, but I think it is inadequate and that the state needs to take even more measures to deal with this serious social problem.
i-VBqYMWpaar7W1vJTi9i5qF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roger Haddad and Andreas Norlén, for your contributions. Right should be right. When we began discussions on the announcement in the Constitutional Committee, it was because we had interpreted it differently. We didn't assume that everything was secure... absolutely not. The challenges are enormous. If there is one thing we are fully aware of, it is precisely that. There's a lot left. Already in June, several months before September, I had talks with the National Coordinator about the experience she had gained at the time and which she described. On this basis, I told the national coordinator that these activities can no longer be carried out in committee. The challenge of violent extremism will not pass. It's a huge challenge. Therefore, this activity needs to be in a permanent government structure. We already started work in June 2016 to compile what we need to further strengthen. Later, the coordinator was commissioned by me to come up with proposals for what we need to do further, which is partly reported in today's Dagens Nyheter. I am grateful for the discussion that has taken place in the Constitutional Committee with the alliance parties, so that we have a common understanding of what needs to be done. This is an area which must not be given priority for the foreseeable future, but which will require further action. I look forward to returning to the Bureau of the Constitutional Committee before the summer and telling you under which authority the activities will be located, but also describe in a deeper way what further tasks need to be done. It brings me to Roger Haddad's questions about the work of the municipalities and what they need. Yes, many municipalities need a lot of support in this work. There is a need for an operational national group that supports the municipalities in developing the work and which also courts the municipalities and ensures that they carry out this work. But we cannot place that burden on all municipalities, because many municipalities have completely different conditions from others. The municipalities that have experience in working with difficult, complex issues are more prepared than those that do not have the same experience at all. This means that there is a good basis in some municipalities to make further efforts with national support. As far as information sharing is concerned, of course, those working on these issues in the local community must have the necessary information. That's why a request from the police is currently under preparation in the Ministry of Justice.
i-610366d7f0df0219-339	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government. I have asked the Government a few questions in the past, as late as November, about a national guideline and that the Swedish Defence University has proposed such a measure, which is also commented on in the interpellation response. But the problem is that in that debate the Minister for the Interior basically rejected a national guideline and dismissed the researchers at the Swedish Defence University. Several of these points are recurring, and the question remains: why has there not been more in two and a half years, despite the fact that information sharing and a national guideline were requested early autumn 2016? Why is this coming up now? I have been working on these issues for seven years, Madam President, first on the Board of the National Police, responsible for terrorist issues and then on the Committee on Justice. And I was actually afraid of the dark, worried, that it works so badly, despite all the programs, despite all the debates and despite all the alarm reports. Then we are not talking about the small municipalities, we are talking about Örebro and we are talking about Gothenburg. An employee from Gothenburg, Bettan Byvald, participated in SVT. She said: How are we in social services going to carry out our mission when it comes to returning IS terrorists or IS passengers if we do not get any information? It is from the district of Angered in Gothenburg that the most young people have travelled to commit barbaric acts and murders or to support the terrorist organisation Islamic State. Madam President, I would like It is a small but dangerous indicator that Sweden does not have a functioning activity against terrorism and counter-terrorism. This applies not least to what actually falls under the responsibility of Minister Alice Bah Kuhnke. We are not just talking about the Security Service, we are talking about what authorities, municipalities and schools should do with those who are not supposed to be in prison. The government repeatedly avoids responding to that. It is not just about promoting democracy and training teachers. Madam President, I would like It is referred to action plans. I do not believe that all the action plans referred to in the interpellation response are real. Take, for example, my municipality of residence Västerås, Sweden's sixth largest city. In March last year, the Municipal Council adopted a strategy against violent extremism. We had raised the issue already in November 2015, but when the question came to the municipal council two weeks ago it turned out that the municipal administrations, including culture and leisure time paying out association grants and social services, were not aware of the strategy adopted by the municipal board. They wrote in the opinion: We have neither competence, resources nor the capacity to assess nor work on these issues. Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. This is another indicator that it does not work. It scares me and worries me. Not least, the Liberals are critical of the fact that the government has said no when we have proposed preliminary investigations, national guidelines and dual prosecution capacity.
i-610366d7f0df0219-349	Madam President, I would like The Government said in its previous speech that we had interpreted the invitation from the Riksdag to the Government to ensure that there is a readiness of municipalities and authorities to handle IS returnees in different ways. I find it difficult to see how one can interpret one, as I see it, quite clear announcements in different ways. I note that at the time of the decision in February 2016, the Riksdag addressed a number of requests to the Government to act on various issues relating to the prevention of violent extremism. Some six months later, in September, the government wanted to write off all those who were finished and satisfied, in several cases with very thin justifications and measures and in some case no action at all. For me, this gave the overall picture that the government did not take Parliament's requests seriously, nor did it take the policy area seriously. If they had done so, they would of course have taken into account all the requests made by the Riksdag and worked actively and actively to ensure that what the Riksdag requested would also become a reality. Now, instead, the opposite signal was sent by saying, after six months of internal work in the Government Office, that everything that was ordered by the Riksdag had been done and was therefore done with the job. This causes the Government to have problems with credibility when the Government now comes up with various proposals on what needs to be done. I agree with the previous speaker's description. I am also concerned about the situation in many of the country's municipalities, including the capital city of Stockholm, in terms of preventive work. There are signals from many parts of Sweden that the work of managing IS-returners does not work, nor does the broader preventive work. It is worrying and shows that the government needs to take the lead in a different way than before.
i-610366d7f0df0219-354	Madam President, I would like Again: In June 2016, we decided that we needed to take a much stronger and clearer national approach to prevention. In parallel with our commission to work on a proposal, work was also started to ensure that we had the right basis for working out how the business should work when it becomes permanent. Operational work towards municipalities and other authorities is one of these results. Further details on how the business should be conducted now that it becomes a permanent activity in an authority, I will return to shortly when we make the decision. So there has been solid work going on for a long time. Everything is done in close cooperation with current authorities, security police, police, social services and municipalities to identify what needs they see, and these are different needs. Confidentiality is a need that we need to address. It must be the case that information is shared. The guidelines are also central. It is clear that social services throughout our country interpret the Social Services Act differently. Therefore, guidelines are needed. I would like to confirm and sign that. That is why we are clarifying this, and I welcome the coordinator's proposal that they are needed. It is argued that nothing has happened, but there have been a number of things. At the same time as prevention, the regulation has been tightened up at the initiative of the government. Terrorist travel, the reception of terrorism training and the financing of a terrorist or terrorist organisation are now punishable. The police have instruction training to detect and prevent violent radicalisation. The appropriations of the Security Service have increased, including strengthening their investigation activities against identified travellers. The Security Service is responsible for the operational work against and with the returnees. The focus is on identifying and bringing to justice those who have committed crimes and on ensuring that those who cannot be convicted but who are radicalized do not commit crimes. I refer to Mr Säpo for the precise working methods used. I had a meeting with Säpo Director Anders Thornberg last week, and he confirmed the responsibility and efforts of the Swedish Security Service. Having said that, we are far from finished. We will continue to have to invest and invest in this work. Therefore, I look forward to coming back to how the business will be permanent and not be in the form of a committee in which the previous government placed it, how to assimilate the knowledge that has been produced and identified for two and a half years and how to work forcefully to protect us all.
i-610366d7f0df0219-361	Madam President, I would like It is extremely serious that various ministers in the government Löfven say different things about how the IS-returns are and how we should work with them. It is also extremely serious that in November the Minister for the Interior opposed the national guidelines proposed by the Liberals and supported by the Minister for Democracy. It is also serious that the Minister for the Interior opposed our call for changes in the rules of confidentiality, which the Minister for Democracy now suddenly wants to review. This is not sustainable. We call for clearer coordination within the government on these issues. I am surprised to have looked through the material, had had contact with municipalities and listened to what Bettan Byvald in Angered said in SVT that there is no work against IS-returners at the national coordinator. Sweden today has no systematic work against returning IS terrorists on the government side, in other words in the part for which the Minister for Democracy is responsible. This is very serious, Madam President. Liberals therefore require national guidelines, a doubling of the capacity to investigate more, mandatory preliminary investigations and a change in confidentiality. It is only then that schools, social services and other authorities have at least a chance to prevent both those who come back and the lone wolves that Säpo has identified and which pose the greatest threat to Swedish democracy right now: the violent Islamist terrorism.
i-610366d7f0df0219-367	Madam President, I would like What is happening now, namely that we will shortly announce where the preventive work is going to take place somewhere – in which authority – is not something that comes all of a sudden, but it is the result of the work that has been done on the basis of the foundation that the previous government laid down. We have built it up strongly, partly in cooperation and through the agreements we have made with the alliance parties in the Constitutional Committee. Again, it is the Security Service that is responsible for the operational work towards the returnees. It is a clear and strong authority that does this. They themselves confirm that. All of this in no way means that more and more efforts need not be made. The communication that I have made clear today in the Constitutional Committee and here is that we will shortly announce how the activities will be carried out in the future. It should be permanent, not in some form of committee. We need national guidelines, and we need to review confidentiality so that information is shared. These are some of the tasks resulting from the work that has been done around the country. We listen to the many municipalities that clearly say that they need operational support in order to be able to operate efficiently.
i-610366d7f0df0219-371	Madam President, I would like Johan Hedin has asked me whether I believe that all municipalities live up to their responsibility to deal with returning individuals from Syria and Iraq and, if not, what measures I and the government are considering taking. Let me begin by confirming that the work against violent extremism and terrorism is a very high priority of the government. The person who committed terrorist crime shall be prosecuted and punished. A criminal investigation shall be initiated when there is reason for it. It is the judiciary and the Swedish Security Service that are responsible for dealing with people who pose threats to Sweden and who are suspected of crimes, and the government has taken initiatives to strengthen the judicial capacity. The government has tightened up the criminal justice system. For example, on 1 April 2016, special criminal liability was introduced for terrorist travel and the reception of terrorism training. On the operational side, the Swedish Security Service has strengthened its investigation activities with the aim of developing the investigation work against identified travellers. The Government has proposed in the budget proposal for 2017 that the Swedish Security Service should contribute SEK 650 million during the period 2017 – 2020, including to strengthen the work against terrorism. More recently, several people have been convicted of terrorism-related crime, including terrorist offences committed in Syria. At the same time, society needs to be made resistant to violent extremism and terrorism. Effective and long-term prevention is therefore also important. Since 2015, the Government has greatly strengthened the National Coordinator's resources and also ensured that relevant authorities work with preventive measures. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, the Swedish National Board of Institutional Affairs, the Swedish National Defence Research Institute and the Swedish Children's Ombudsman and others are today tasked with working on these issues. The number of authorities, municipalities and organisations involved in the prevention of violent extremism has never been greater. On the basis of the agreement on counter-terrorism measures of 10 December 2015, I commissioned the national coordinator to analyse the responsibility of municipalities to prevent radicalisation and recruitment to violent groups and, based on the analysis, to investigate different alternatives to how municipalities' responsibilities should be designed and to propose what measures could be taken against municipalities that do not live up to their responsibilities. The National Coordinator submitted his report to the Government on 20 December 2016. The coordinator estimates that existing legislation provides support for municipalities to prevent violent extremism at all three levels of prevention: democratising measures against extremism, countering entry and facilitating the exit from violent extremism. The report is referred, and the proposals are now being prepared in the Government Office. It is the responsibility of the Swedish Security Service to carry out intelligence work and to take measures to prevent terrorist attacks in Sweden. It is therefore in the mission of the Swedish Security Service to have more detailed information about the approximately 150 individuals who have returned to Sweden from Syria and Iraq, among others. In order for municipalities to be able to work with relevant efforts for returnees, it is important that municipal activities receive information from the Swedish Security Service through the Swedish Police Authority that there are returnees in the municipality. This information chain must work in order for municipalities to be able to make efforts within their area of responsibility. However, there are important aspects of confidentiality and integrity to be addressed. The Government Office is currently preparing a request from the Police Authority for a review of the confidentiality rules in this area. I am very keen that the development of preventive work around the country continues with vigour, but many challenges remain. Together with other relevant ministers, I will ensure that the work against violent extremism and terrorism, including the work of returnees from both Syria and Iraq and other countries, remains a high priority of the government.
i-610366d7f0df0219-379	Madam President, I would like In recent years, some 300 people have travelled from Sweden to join the terror organization Daish. That's 300 too many. These people destroy lives – usually their own, but also largely family members. Above all, they destroy the lives of the victims of their participation in the worst terrorist cult we know. Society's efforts before and after the terrorist war voyages are not up to the mark. Let's just say. About half of the 300 are believed to have returned to Sweden. How we deal with them is of enormous importance to the security of our country. Madam President, I would like It is usually said that it takes two qualities in combination for a person to be considered a dangerous potential terrorist. Firstly, the person must be motivated to commit acts of terrorism. Second, the person needs to have a real ability to cause harm. Hopefully someone may have been deterred by the horror scenes you have been involved in creating, but most who participate in terror wars are unfortunately only becoming even more hardened. At the same time, they have had the opportunity to assimilate knowledge of how the darkest evil can be applied in practice. It is extremely important that we keep an eye on those who come back, and the best place for this is reasonably under the control of the Prison Service but also other places. The unhappy association of motivation and ability is strengthened by another unfortunate development in society. The long-term trend in security development is that it gets better. In recent years, virtually all criminal areas have been reduced, but there is a serious unfortunate exception, and that is gang crime. I cannot imagine a more dangerous situation than when two networks meet, on the one hand, the network involved in radicalising and hating together, and on the other hand, a criminal gang that has learned how best to avoid the police and obtain weapons. They can become extremely dangerous to society. The great agreement on combating terrorism, which is being discussed here today and which was concluded between the alliance parties and the government in December 2015, set out a series of measures. Some of them are in place – we thank them – and others are on their way. However, on a couple of points there is still a lack of adequate delivery. It is true that municipalities are responsible for preventing radicalisation. But for this to happen, they must have support. This is part of the agreement, and it is nothing new. The government will come back with proposals for measures if the municipalities do not accept this responsibility. I thank you for your reply that the national coordinator concluded for just over a year that it is true, as we wrote in the agreement, that the municipalities have this responsibility. Of course, it is also laudable that this should be set at three different categories. But I would like to hear more about what measures can actually be taken. Madam President, I would like It's time to reopen the subject. We are seeing changes in terrorism and we need to adapt our strategy in order to combat it effectively. Some of the measures we have implemented have been put in place and we should soon be able to evaluate them. If it turns out that the criminalisation of the so-called terrorist war voyages is too toothless, we must look at what alternatives there are. There, the Center Party has proposed a criminalisation of associations with terrorist organisations. It may be beside the examination area of Minister Bah Kuhnke, but it may be something to take note of. I would therefore like to concentrate my supplementary question on the responsibility of the municipalities and on what measures the government is considering. Are there, in the view of the Government, any good examples of municipalities that make this work good? In that case, what is it that these municipalities do and that other municipalities should follow? What measures is the government considering for those municipalities that do not fully assume their responsibilities?
i-610366d7f0df0219-393	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer to this interpellation as well. This interpellation is specifically about whether the Government considers that all municipalities live up to their responsibility to handle returnees and what the Government believes needs to be done if this is not the case. In the previous interpellation debate, we discussed some issues that are related. The Government has said that half of the municipalities have an action plan or strategy for working against violent extremism. There will be a discussion if the glass is half full or half empty, i.e. if it is a good or bad figure that half of the municipalities have a strategy. I would like to say that the glass is half empty. It is not a good figure that only half of the municipalities have an action plan or a strategy for how to work with the fight against extremism, with preventive work or with IS-returners, especially since the government's policy has rested very heavily on the municipalities' responsibility to be the first and last instance of dealing with IS-returners and for the operational and preventive work against violent extremism in a number of cases. Of course, it is not acceptable that only half of the municipalities have an idea of how this work should be carried out. Another issue with regard to the municipalities that have an action plan is to what extent it is well established and to what extent it has led to actual work in the municipalities on the issues and to what extent it is so-called shelf heaters. My view is that the government and the state must take much more operational responsibility for, in particular, the issue of dealing with IS returnees. It seems, as things stand in our country, to be an increasingly unreasonable idea that the municipalities should be the first and last instance to tackle IS returnees. I welcome the fact that the government has come to that realization in part by now talking about a national team of experts to help municipalities in their operational work. I think it is a good initiative. But I think it will turn out to be inadequate. I think that one should be inspired by Denmark, which this week is opening a state centre against violent extremism. There you gather knowledge and take the lead in this work. There is also reason to look at the French experience. France has also set up a state centre for the reintegration and de-radicalisation of radicalised people. There you can see concrete examples of how the state can step forward in a much clearer way and partly assume the responsibility that we have so far put on the municipalities in Sweden. The more the issue is discussed, the more it seems unreasonable that the municipalities' social services, which should deal with everything from alcohol abusers to young people with social problems, are the best place to deal with IS returnees who have a completely different problem than the one we in Sweden are normally used to in the framework of our social services. I would therefore like to know how the Government sees the State's responsibility for the IS return in particular and whether the Government is prepared to take further action in addition to those which have been presented today in order for the State to step forward and become the leading player in this area. Then I have a comment about the confidentiality rules, so that municipalities can get information about, for example, which IS-returners exist in each municipality. The Alliance proposed to review the confidentiality rules in autumn 2016. It was then the result of a debate that had been going on for some time. So this is not a new issue, but it is only now that the government is acting. Why is that?
i-610366d7f0df0219-402	Madam President, I would like The state definitely has a responsibility. It has the responsibility to provide the municipalities with operational support. That is precisely what has become clear in the course of the work. That is why I instructed the National Coordinator already in June to come up with proposals on how to move this activity from the committee in which the previous government placed its activities to become part of a national authority working operationally. As far as work in other countries is concerned, it is obvious that we are studying it very carefully. It is part of the basis for the activity that I will present shortly – how to work and where to be located. Of course, most of it remains. We need to work much better, and we need to ensure that municipalities and local communities have the information and knowledge they need to carry out this work. This is an enormous challenge that no municipality should be left alone with. There are municipalities that are more prepared than others. But that is not the big challenge, but the challenge is all the others. There are larger municipalities, but above all many of the smaller municipalities have not had the resources, skills or opportunities to develop a job. It is these municipalities that are now to receive support when we start work with a focus on operational support. When we then also review the confidentiality legislation, it is a question of the information sharing having to work. Those who are going to do the job must have the right information to be able to do the job.
i-610366d7f0df0219-406	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answers. However, there was little concreteness in the answers I received. I call for some good examples from the municipalities that the Government has visited during this time, since access or possibly since the agreement on terrorism. Some of the municipalities visited by the Government must do something that is good. I think it is important to take on board what is good and what is done well. It's easy that we focus on and almost go down in everything that's bad. I want to find the good example, and I want the Government to help me identify it. There's got to be something. Otherwise, we're in real trouble. Then again, I would like to see concrete action taken by the government for those municipalities that do not fully fulfil their responsibilities. A municipality in which the Government's own party is in charge is Stockholm. Last year they gave notice of the collaboration they had with the Swedish Defence University to work on these specific issues. Is it strengthening the municipality's responsibility for this work? I don't think so. I would like the Council of State's comment on that. Another thing that we discussed in connection with the Terrorist Agreement is something that I think is very important. It may not be huge, but it may have a bearing on the margin. And it gives an important signal to the whole of society about how important these issues are. It is about the fact that no tax funds can be used to spread violent and anti-democratic messages. I remember asking a written question to Minister Alice Bah Kuhnke about it – I think it was in June 2016. I was then told that an investigation was set up to look at the funding of the religions in this regard. But then one reasonably misses a wide range of associations that have nothing to do with faith. Should there not be an additional directive for that investigation? Has it possibly been done? That is a question to which I would like an answer.
i-610366d7f0df0219-410	Madam President, I would like Government! This debate is about the extent to which Sweden's municipalities are adequately equipped to meet the challenges of dealing with IS returnees, specifically, but also to work generally with preventive measures against violent extremism. In the last round of discussions, Minister Örebro gave as an example of a municipality that works well with these issues or with IS-returners. This has given rise to some comments on Twitter, where it has been argued that Örebro is not a good example of a municipality that is working successfully on these issues. I would like to ask the Government whether the Government can develop the reasoning regarding Örebro as a good example in this context. To sum up, the debate that has taken place in society over the past few weeks has shown in an almost painfully clear way that we in Sweden are doing very little to deal with IS returnees, alongside the few who have been prosecuted and convicted of terrorist crimes, and that it is really high time that the state step forward and take a clear responsibility. It is not reasonable that we do not operate anywhere in Sweden, as it appears, to reintegrate and de-radicalise IS-returners, to prevent them from becoming destructive role models for young people in the local community, for example, or to protect society from them in any other way. This is perhaps not surprising when the government's position to date has been that it is enough to issue guidelines – it is not a question of ensuring that municipalities have robust support to carry out concrete activities.
i-610366d7f0df0219-414	Madam President, I would like With regard to prevention and the preparations that need to be made in our municipalities, it is not sufficiently developed today. National operational support is therefore needed. Today, I have made it clear that we will ensure that when the business gets a place in a regular authority, it will also be conducted. There are a number of municipalities that need this support. But there are also a number of municipalities – there are a few good examples – who have good preparatory work. Andreas Norlén knows very well something that I was clear about in the Constitutional Committee today, when I was able to provide secret information from the Security Service. We have examples of some municipalities and districts in our country where there has been work with returnees. Örebro is one of them. I can't give you much more details than that. I may refer to the Security Service and to the overall data we have received from, among other things, authorities, organisations and religious communities involved in this work in various ways. I was very clear about this in the Constitutional Committee. I also brought officials from the Ministry of Justice in charge of the Security Service who gave this information in secret. But what matters is what we do in the future. What is important is that we are very clear and now strong. In June last year, nine months ago, I was determined to instruct the investigator, the national coordinator, to work out proposals on how to take the next step in this work. What the previous government did-- it put this in a committee-- was good then, just over two years ago, but it won't last any longer. We need to build up power. The activities must be carried out in close cooperation with crime prevention – although this is preventive in order to protect democracy against violent extremism. You have to get into very early stages, and we do now. In the near future, I will announce which authority will be responsible for the operation. We will then also specify how they work operationally to support the municipalities in this work. We will also set up a work to write national guidelines for how the Social Services Act, for example, should be interpreted. We know today, thanks to the work of the national coordinator and the gatherings that are being carried out, that things are different. We are also looking at confidentiality legislation. Much remains to be done, but this is so serious that there is nothing to doubt. This must be a priority and it must be financed.
i-610366d7f0df0219-420	Madam President, I would like I note that I am not getting a clearer answer to the questions. I find that unfortunate. The government keeps talking about the government taking this very seriously. That is a very high priority. But, frankly, there are notifications about the action that an authority should do this job. Yes, but everyone agrees that an authority should do that job. Something should be done all the time. But we need concreteness. I feel that there is an acute lack of concreteness. And I feel that there is an acute lack of operationality. These are problems that have not arisen now. They arose a couple of years ago. At least since the terrorist agreement, the government should be on this ball. You're on some other balls. But there are important pieces of the puzzle that are missing. They have to be in place. Otherwise, we will not be able to resolve this. Then I am very worried about what development will look like when safety in Sweden is seriously threatened. There must be things we can do, and the government must have the courage to make decisions. It's about that. It's about showing political leadership and getting to grips with things even if they're uncomfortable. You can stand here and say, "Let's give priority." But, honestly, it was 2015. We'll write in 2017. It doesn't feel very prioritised. I call for greater concreteness, operationality and, above all, political leadership.
i-610366d7f0df0219-424	Madam President, I would like You can only say that nothing has happened in the last two and a half years unless you know what has actually been done. An enormous amount of work has been done. Today, 18 authorities work in various ways on tasks related to the prevention of violent extremism. There is therefore intensive work going on. A number of political missions have also been given to ensure that, now that we are taking a major next step, we are taking the right big step. It is really about political will and courage to make decisions. The fact that we are now moving the mission from a committee to a national authority is to pool our energies. That is to give the question a completely different status. To also say that you should work operationally to support the municipalities and drive the work of the municipalities is further proof of this. I would also like to respond once again to who is responsible for the returnees and how this work is carried out. I had a meeting with Anders Thornberg as late as last week in order to get further on my feet before the information I was going to give to the Constitutional Committee, which was also classified. What was clear there, and as Mr Säpo stressed, was their responsibility for the operational work against and with the returnees. They work focusedly and powerfully. However, they stressed that many challenges remain and that we therefore need to pool our efforts beyond the work of the Security Service and the Police Authority. We need to pool our strength nationally, but also in the local community, and the government is now taking steps to do so.
