i-2168165010e3b43e-1	Mr President, I would like to Coves, tents and caravans – temporary settlements on private land prevent the owner from using the land. Often the landowner has to clean, clean and restore the land afterwards. But anyone who settles on another person's land without permission is guilty of a crime. Mr President, I would like to I think it is important that we establish from the outset in this debate what we are talking about: that access to other people's land is not permitted. When landowners see their forest or land under heavy wear occupied by settlers, there must be effective means of eviction. It's about trust in our legal society. It is therefore good that it is now easier for landowners to get their land back when people have settled there without permission and that the law will apply as early as 1 July this year. Ownership is a fundamental right. It is enshrined in our constitution and in the European Convention. This is a prerequisite for growth and breeding. Being able to control your land is a prerequisite for developing the values that we can all then enjoy within the framework of the right of public access. The unsanitary and environmentally-friendly settlements we are dealing with are not established within the framework of the right of public access. The current legislation is highly inadequate to address the situation and imposes high costs on the landowner. For example, in connection with the renovation of the property in Sorgenfri in Malmö, the owner was ordered to pay several hundred thousand SEK. I say again: the landowner was ordered to pay, not those who illegally settled there. The police are the main actor in the prosecution of the establishment of settlements. Under the police law, mainly under the title arbitrary procedure, the cumbersome eviction process can be avoided. Here, landowners today need to identify settlers and take heavy costs. When a lack of resources or evidence undermines the ability of the police, assistance may be requested by the Swedish Enforcement Authority. This is where the new form of handshake – removal – will enter. Most of these hands are made intermist. The bailiff considers this quick handling to be the best, as it shortens the processing time. In parts of Sweden, the interim process is necessary to prevent settlers systematically burning their camps after the request for eviction. The possibility of interim proceedings is proposed to remain, which is a good thing. The government proposal has had the right starting point but not enough ambition in terms of the possibility for landowners to protect their own land. The proposal put forward by the Government has improved considerably during the reading in Parliament. For us Christian Democrats, it has been important to strengthen the rights of landowners even more clearly by speeding up the process of moving the settlers so that the land can be protected. I am therefore pleased that Parliament's work has given us a voice in order for the process to go faster and not burden the landowner in an unreasonable way. With the help of the parliamentary majority, the time frames have been shortened. The experience of settlements is: The longer they remain, the greater they become, and the more difficult it is when evicted. The government went beyond the investigation base and extended the processing times and deadlines. The committee proposes two amendments to the Government's bill. The time limit for removal shall be five days from the date on which the defendant has been informed of the enforcement. And the court hearing should be three weeks from the date of entry of the documents. The rules for eviction that the government is now introducing also bring with them our demands for follow-up. Therefore, there are four announcements to the government. The first is: according to the committee, the government should take the necessary initiatives to follow up the regulation by the end of the year 2017/18. The second is that the government should take the initiative to clarify the powers of the Political Authority to deal with leftover property in connection with an action against illegal residence under the Police Act. The third is: the government should also come back with a bill that means that the same responsibility for costs should apply to all known defendants. The fourth is: the government should take the initiative to limit the applicant's responsibility for the execution costs. The Christian Democrats would have preferred to see the landowners completely spared an economic expense for the right to protect their land. Perhaps the most remarkable feature of the government proposal is the introduction of the proportionality assessment. The Government considers it appropriate to question whether the landowner is entitled to land in a proportionality assessment. It is a completely new element that the bailiff will now check off in the process that precedes execution. The Christian Democrats will follow very closely how this is expressed and whether this element leads to delayed processes and violations of property rights. If that is the case, we will act. With this, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 8.
i-2168165010e3b43e-17	Mr President, I would like to Today, as I said, we are debating the proposal Removal – a new form of special handshake. The proposal will make it easier and less costly for property owners to get help with the removal of people illegally residing on their land or property. At the same time, the bill will ensure a legally secure process for those staying on site. We have seen in recent years that illegal settlements are established in public places and private land around Sweden. Today's rules on special hands-on have not been adapted to this situation. It has therefore been important to develop new legislation. However, in parallel with the development of more effective legislation, the Police Authority has developed new recommendations. These recommendations aim to ensure that the police are more active and carry out a more uniform and legally correct work with illegal settlements. In the past, property owners have ended up in an impossible situation when they turn to the police, which refers to the bailiff. And the bailiff has in some cases refused a request for special handshake because it has not been possible to identify those who have lived on the site. But now management is improving in both directions in order to get this situation right. The role of the police has become clearer. They can intervene on the basis of the Police Act. And training is ongoing throughout the police organization to increase knowledge of how to handle illegal settlements. As I said, first and foremost illegal settlements or occupation of a property is a matter for the police. When settlers or occupiers are guilty of arbitrary proceedings, but also other crimes, such as home peace crimes, the police must intervene with the support of the Police Act. Nevertheless, there is a need for additional rules and changes to the legislation. Today we take care of this in Parliament so that the new rules can apply from 1 July this year. The committee supports the introduction of a new form of special handshake. The new and more effective procedure shall be called removal. The law will help landowners to regain the use of their land in a more uniform and secure manner. Since it has often been difficult for the individual to obtain personal data from those who reside on his or her land, one should now be able to apply for removal without having to identify all the defendants, precisely because in many cases this has been very difficult. Persons who have arrived at the place after application to the enforcement officer must also be able to be removed. While we make it easier for property owners to get advice back over their land, there is a need to see that those who reside on other people's land are handled in a good and legally secure way. Many times it is about people in a particularly vulnerable situation, and there may also be children in the picture. Therefore, the proportionality assessment for removal is laid down, for there should be no doubt that such an assessment should be carried out. The starting point is that the landowner should get back advice over his land that someone else has used without permission, but it is important that the Kronofogdemyndigheten does not routinely give priority to the interests of applicants without any kind of assessment. This procedure is carried out in two stages. The application is examined first, the assessment is made and decisions are made. The second step is enforcement, where the actual removal takes place. A balancing of interests shall also be carried out at the enforcement stage. However, it is not a review of the decision but a balance between how and when the removal can best be carried out. It needs to take account of those who reside on other people's land, even if they do so illegally. They must be able to arrange for removal in a good way that takes into account the best interests of children. It must also be ensured that information is available and that it is possible to get in touch with social authorities. However, in this balancing of interests – as it sounds, it is a question of a balance between two different interests – it should also be taken into account whether the landowner, for example, risks high costs if enforcement is delayed. Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, illegal settlements are primarily a matter for the police. The actual execution costs nothing to the individual. The second option is that the applicant is given an opportunity to take the initiative to address the problem and apply for removal from the enforcement body. This is not a service offered free of charge by the state. Even when you apply for eviction or debt determination from the Swedish Enforcement Authority, it costs money, although these costs are generally quite low. However, we know that the risk of high costs is greater the more defendants, and that is why the committee has an announcement to the government to limit costs for the applicant, in this case the landowner. A limitation of costs is also made in the bill by the fact that applicants do not have to take responsibility for the property left behind and the management of it, which can also be very costly. To sum up, the main responsibility for removing persons residing without permission on another person's land is with the police. At the same time, it will be much easier to get help from the Swedish Enforcement Authority. The new rules will make it easier to remove persons without requiring identification. At the same time, rules are introduced that strengthen legal certainty for defendants. The landowner should also be able to get help without the costs being too high. We have found a great deal of agreement on the proposals in committee, and I very much hope that, in the rapid evaluation that the committee demands, we will see that the objectives of the legislation are met. Finally, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 4.
i-2168165010e3b43e-34	Mr President, I would like to Together with the right to vote and freedom of expression, property rights form part of the fundamentals of democracy and modern civilization. Where property rights have not existed throughout history, there has also been a lack of voting rights and freedom of expression. I think that we should take this as a starting point when discussing these issues. Sweden has a proud tradition of defending and protecting property rights. In recent years, however, we have seen trends in ownership being curtailed by potentially praiseworthy interests, but together they have created a whole in which it has been difficult for individuals to enforce their property rights. And if you cannot take advantage of your property rights, Mr President, then property rights are just something that exists on paper but cannot be exercised. Caroline Szyber began the debate by talking about the occupiers at Sorgenfri in Malmö, and I think it is an example that describes the problem we have in Sweden today. It is not only at Sorgenfri in Malmö that we have had and have this problem, but it looks like that in a number of places around the country. Thus, a shanty town was established in Malmö, and the Environmental Board stated that this is not the way to do things. You can't live here. But the landowner who owned the property and had never given any permission to establish a shantytown could not defend his interests. The landowner could not have the people in the town moved off in an easy way. Instead of providing an opportunity to remove the occupiers, what did society do? The community threatened with a white light. Society demanded the landowner to clean up a litter to which the landowner had no debt whatsoever. This is probably the most Kafka-like we have seen in Sweden for a long time, and unfortunately it is not only at Sorgenfristomten in Malmö that we have seen this. We have seen exactly the same problem with berry picking camps around Sweden's forests. It has been a big problem in my county of Dalarna, where people without permission from the landowner destroy natural values, destroy the environment and soil and behave threateningly. This is, of course, totally unacceptable, and this proposal is therefore welcome. It is even more welcome since the Alliance has helped to make it significantly better than the way it was originally sketched. We must not forget that what was said from the outset was that in some cases it would be more expensive for the landowner to protect his rights than is now the case. We have now hopefully put a stop to this. We have also removed the strict requirement for identification, which in practice has made it impossible for landowners to defend their interests. Who wants to be identified when occupying a piece of land if you know that the occupation can continue if you do not allow yourself to be identified? It was a general error built into the previous process that has affected individual landowners. I have been out and met with landowners in Dalarna who feel that they do not have the opportunity to protect their rights. Then society is on a sloping plane, because what happens then is that people start taking the law into their own hands. There are examples of how people have dug out forest roads that are otherwise excellent access routes for people to be able to take part in the right of public access in our vast country. You just dig out forest roads because you know that if you get an occupation on your land where people come and camp and destroy, then it is associated with costs that you cannot bear. In the example Sorgenfri in Malmö it was about a property owner who was probably more settled at the cashier than most private individuals who own land. Nevertheless, it is the principle that is being asked to pay SEK 375 000 to clean up land that someone else has destroyed without having the opportunity to make peace with it. This is an important proposal, and it has improved with the Alliance.
i-2168165010e3b43e-45	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats believe that the police should always intervene against illegal settlements and so-called shantytowns. If someone occupies another person's land, it should be treated as an ongoing crime, and the police intervention should take place immediately. Only if there has been a lease agreement and there has been a payment should it be possible to refer to some form of title. Nevertheless, we agree with several announcements about improvements to the bill. We do this in order to make it easier for the landowner, after all, in cases where the landowner is forced to request removal. However, I would like to make it clear that the landowner should always first contact the police, as it is also stated in the bill that the police should normally evict persons who illegally reside on the ground in violation of the right of public access. In that case, the landowner shall not incur any costs in the form of processing fees. There are various reasons why these settlements arise. In northern Sweden there are so-called berry picking camps. Unfortunately, people have often been lured here to pick berries, and in the meantime they live in temporary camps. This should also be the case with those who lure people here and create the problem. Then there are so-called begging camps, where people use freedom of movement in the EU to come here and make a living begging. Some of them are likely also fooled by pretenses of something more well - paid. Others may have seen it as the only way out. Whatever the case, it is a very poor solution for all parties involved that poor people from other countries should beg on our streets outside our affairs. When police or bailiffs force these people to move from one place, they tend to move the problem to another place. There will be a new landowner affected, and the procedure will start over. To solve the problem, these people must either have a job that pays enough to afford legal housing, or they should be forced to leave the country. Our solution to the problems of illegal settlements is to use the derogations for freedom of movement in the EU which actually exist and which should be respected. When leaving residence, the police should check whether the persons live up to the requirement of honest living. If they do not, they should be rejected from the country. The new rules on removal do not remove the full cost and do not give the landowner any real opportunity to obtain compensation for neither damage nor the loss of income which is often a direct consequence of settlements. For a landowner, costs can be high. If the land is used for cultivation, the whole year's harvest in the area can be destroyed while the land afterwards needs to be cleaned – this even if the settlement remains only for a short period of time. We would have preferred the state to have taken responsibility for the costs incurred, if it were not to comply with the rules on fair supply, rather than to place the costs on the landowner. Mr President, I would like to If I am now to say something positive about the new removal law, it is that the bill states that it should normally be a task for the police rather than a task for the Kronofogdemyndigheten. We can always hope that the new removal law does not need to be used. I'll finish with my pleas. We are, of course, fully behind all our reservations, but for the winning time, I only ask for the approval of reservation no. 2.
i-2168165010e3b43e-54	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes in politics there are several interests against each other, sometimes two groups stand against each other and sometimes two rights stand against each other. If we are to have a society that holds together, we need to see that they resist those interests can be legitimate each and every one of them. We must support those groups that have a weaker economic and political voice, while at the same time it is important to treat the interests of other groups with legal certainty and respect. Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Civil Liberties – a new form of special handshake. The report deals with the possibility for an authority to move people who reside or reside on another person's land without the landowner's permission or if they are subject to the right of public access. Anyone who settles on someone else's land rarely does so because it feels fun or because it intends to intrude, but because it may have no place else to live. Having the right to remain in one's own home, or with one's family, regardless of how that home looks, is a human right enshrined in Article 8 of the ECHR. At the same time, as Mr Bohlin mentioned earlier, everyone has the right to his property and land under our constitution. If you own land, of course, no one else should be able to settle there without your consent. That is why I also believe that the legislation we are now debating and later today should decide on is necessary. It will be easier for the landowner to get his land back when people have settled there without permission. The government's proposal introduces a new form of special handshake, i.e. removal. The removal shall be used in the case of unauthorised settlements on land, in a building or similar, when the owner wants the person to move. The purpose of the bill is, as we have also heard before, to make it easier for the landowner to get back his land, building or the like while those staying on the site should be subject to a legally secure process. Mr President, I would like to I wonder why people are illegally staying on someone else's land. Why do people choose to live there under difficult conditions? The answer is probably that they have nowhere else to go. The new legislation should be applicable in several situations, for example when people illegally settle on someone else's land, when someone settles or takes a summer cottage and when people introduce a festival, for example, illegally claims the land where the festival is to be held before it has begun. Mr President, I would like to I would particularly like to touch on the issue of illegal settlements linked to EU migrants. I choose to do it to lift up their situation. It is a situation that will not be resolved by the bill but is a far greater problem. Many of the EU migrants who come to Sweden do so for the dream of a better life for themselves and their children. There is a major housing shortage in Sweden today. It is clear that if there had been apartments or rooms to rent, the situation would not have been that we have today, where people are forced to live in a substandard way without access to running water and toilet. These are people who are already marginalised by society, whether they stay in their home country, end up in another European country or go to Sweden. A large proportion of them are Roma. The EU Agency for Fundamental Rights has stated that the 10 million or so European Roma on the continent are the most vulnerable and discriminated group of people on our continent, despite the fact that several European countries today, both inside and outside the EU, prohibit ethnic discrimination in their legislations. Antiziganism is widespread and accepted throughout Europe, and the EU money intended to support Roma is not reaching its destination. It is a problem that we all have responsibility for at several levels to work on to solve. Today, in Sweden, Roma live here for generations. Yet they are discriminated against in the Swedish housing market. Mr President, I would like to Given that the Roma who have lived here for many generations are discriminated against in the Swedish housing market, the question will be what happens to those EU migrants who want to have a roof over their heads. I know that we are not solving these problems with this legislation, but what is needed is more housing, more knowledge and greater acceptance in our society. In view of the housing shortage in Sweden today, there are groups that are completely excluded from the housing market. More housing is needed even for the most vulnerable. It is currently being built more than it has been built in 40 years, but we should also ensure that it is built so that the groups outside can also enter the housing market. Municipalities have statutory municipal housing responsibility. Each municipality shall plan the housing supply of its municipality with guidelines. The aim of the planning shall be to create the conditions for everyone in the municipality to live in good housing and to promote the preparation and implementation of appropriate measures for the housing supply. I also understand that people who are staying temporarily in Sweden have much more difficulty getting into the housing market and perhaps there will also not get into the regular market, but I would like to highlight a good example. In my municipality of residence Jönköping, the municipality has entered and financed a shelter that Kyrkhjälpen has opened up for all vulnerable people in the community. This has also allowed EU migrants to have a roof over their heads and a shower. There are several similar examples around our country. Municipalities work very well with the questions, and I think that more should follow. Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs is proposing to the Riksdag that it accept the Government's proposal in the main. But we have proposed two amendments. As you have heard before, it is about the deadline for removal and the length of the administrative time for the Kronofogdemyndigheten. I am pleased that the committee has been able to arrive at this product together. As many have said, it is likely to improve as well. I therefore support the committee's proposal and thank you for it.
i-2168165010e3b43e-70	Mr President, I would like to This is a little bit of the Green Party in a nutshell. Emma Hult begins by saying that it is about different rights that stand against each other. What right is it that stands against property rights here? I wonder. We're supposed to have building permits, we're supposed to have beach protection, we're supposed to have noise regulations, we're supposed to have national interests, we're supposed to have one with the fourth – absolutely, says the Green Party. But it is clearly also a human right under the European Convention to occupy someone else's land and remain there. I cannot interpret the speech in any other way. I would like to ask Emma Hult, for the sake of clarity: does the Green Party mean that it is a human right under the European Convention to remain on occupied land just because they call it their home? What right is there against ownership?
i-2168165010e3b43e-73	Mr President, I would like to No, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin. If Mr Bohlin had listened to the whole of my speech, he would have heard that what I am talking about is the right to a dwelling, to a roof over his head. That is the human right I am talking about. I am also saying that I think this legislation is good, because it is not right to use another person's land. But we have two interests that stand against each other, and the problem of people having no place to live is not solved by this legislation.
i-2168165010e3b43e-75	Mr President, I would like to What Emma Hult did was to start by saying that here we have a balance where two interests stand against each other. Again, I wonder: what interest is there in protecting property rights? According to the Green Party, how is that right to be circumscribed?
i-2168165010e3b43e-76	Mr President, I would like to I have not said that we should strike a balance. What I said was that sometimes two interests stand against each other. Sometimes two groups stand against each other, and sometimes two rights stand against each other. I have also mentioned in my speech that the interests of these groups should be highlighted. We do, too, because we are now introducing legal certainty. We are also introducing a principle of proportionality – someone will make an assessment. I think that is important, especially when we are introducing something that will affect people that we have not even identified. Then I think it is extremely important for someone to make that assessment. I'm not saying you shouldn't be entitled to your own land. That's absolutely what you're supposed to do. But there are cases where the landowner may have said okay. It may have been said that it is okay to stay and settle there. But at a later stage, you don't want that. You may have seen consequences or simply changed your mind. I find it sad that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin chooses to interpret what I have said instead of listening to what I am actually saying.
i-2168165010e3b43e-80	Mr President, I would like to No one will fail to notice the people who live on the street because of addiction, mental illness or that they are undocumented and unidentified in Sweden and Europe. Parliament's colleagues, TV viewers and audiences – it affects us badly! The most common sight here in the big city is the EU migrants, who earn their living on the street. Maybe it's the only way they've learned. The second is the so-called asphalt makers, who, with their families in tow, can be hired for black jobs in Swedish residential districts in the summer while their caravans are set up in different parking spaces on the outskirts of the urban areas, where families are suffering. The third, which we rarely see, is the berry pickers. They are far from the cities, along the forest roads, where they are engaged by rogue, unscrupulous companies which, instead of paying contractual wages and offering some kind of shelter and job security, exploit people, mainly from Asian countries, and allow them to live in hideous circumstances while we who act are usually not aware or care about where the berries come from or who has picked them. Mr President, I would like to I want to start with this in order for us to give thought to the reason why this issue now requires a parliamentary decision: people's distress and vulnerability. Several EU members are not doing enough to support their citizens. Instead, they continue to engage in discrimination and force citizens – especially Roma – to long-term exclusion, where the only option is to come to countries where there is an opportunity to earn a little for themselves or for those who remain at home. Mr President, I would like to Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary and other countries from which the Roma come who live in and outside our big cities have a responsibility for their citizens. They will use the humanitarian assistance they receive from other EU countries to strengthen that group. Above all, they should not foment or contribute to the hatred that emerges from right-wing extremism, which is on the rise in many parts of Europe. We must use our EU membership and other bilateral contacts that we have to put the situation of the Roma on the agenda and make oppression visible. Enough about this, which serves to give some perspective on the matter. One should not only point out the individual settlers but also point out the underlying reasons for the illegal occupation of land and the restriction of ownership, with the hopelessness that this in turn means for many individual landowners when they try to get help from authorities to regain the rights to their property. Previous speakers have mentioned a number of examples of this in a good way. We in the Center Party are quite pleased with how the committee has managed to tighten up the government bill aimed at facilitating the removal of illegal settlements by landowners. We can see that the law already provides for police intervention and eviction in public areas and in planned urban areas, but rarely in rural areas or in small urban areas. Mr President, I would like to The changes that we are introducing in the enforcement beam are long awaited. They open the way for a new possibility to use the bailiff and an application procedure without making unreasonable demands on the landowner to identify the residents and without entailing totally unreasonable costs for those who have been affected by unwanted land occupations. The best of all is that the law can come into force this summer and that by the end of 2017 there may be a result to evaluate that enables us to quite quickly make the law even more effective already for next year's berry picking season. That is why we can also live with the shortcomings and ambiguities that remain after we have taken a decision this afternoon. The Center Party is highly critical of the double trial. As it is designed, it is still uncertain whether a landowner who has properly filed a notification can be sure that the enforcement officer will actually implement the removal within the three weeks we pressed the government to reduce the processing time to. Of course, if there is a need for time to take care of children, provide care for sick people and do other humanitarian considerations. However, it must not under any circumstances mean that illegal residence on account of this is authorised and becomes permanent, or that it is possible for the land to be restored and used for so long that it is also labour-intensive and costly for the landowner. A landowner is often a private person, perhaps a summer cottage owner, a farm company or a municipality. In the end, no matter who it is, someone is left with work, costs and inconveniences. It is primarily for the sake of landowners that this law is needed. It is therefore important that, as a basic rule, a residence can be removed immediately, by means of a so-called interim decision, and that it takes place within the space of just a few days. A period of weeks is not good either for the settler or for the landowner. The longer the time goes by, the harder it will be to carry out the move. Now the government declares the existence of the so-called proportionality assessment that it always happens and that it is a basic rule of law within the administrative court. Then the friend of order may ask why it is so important that it be entered here, if it should apply. In the special opinion of the Center Party, Moderates and Christian Democrats, we want to mark this, and we are closely monitoring how it is applied and what the result is when it is then evaluated. We also support, as other speakers have done, Amendment No 8. We have led the government to reduce both the processing time, from four to three weeks, and the time of execution after service, from one week to five days. The cost ceiling that the government then decides should be maximized to SEK 3 000; it is actually too high. It would be desirable to be able to require liability for the actual implementation of those who have illegally settled and to make it possible in some way to seize property which can then be sold at an executive auction to cover other costs incurred by the applicant for damage caused, restoration of land and cleaning. A low fee may be reasonable to ensure that the landowner has a reasonable basis for his or her notification. But it must not be so high that it discourages and, above all, it must be enough to pay once. After all, it cannot be excluded that the settlement has been removed but occurs a little bit away on the same property. In that case, it should not, I think, be a question of a new application and a new fee. It is not very likely that any of the residents will voluntarily make themselves known and identify themselves, especially if this can lead to personal liability. It is good that the Liberals have drawn attention to this in their motion and that the committee agrees that the police should be given increased powers to deal with leftover property. We note that the government parties and the Left do not share our view of liability; we feel that is a pity. It would be better if liability were shared among those who reside on the ground. It is also desirable and welcome that the applicant should not have to identify the residents, if you feel that it is unpleasant. The Center Party is pleased with the announcement that the government has given us: that the requirements should be largely non-existent and that it is sufficient to outline the extent of the settlement in order to have its case dealt with. This was a long account that began with a description of the situation in which people find themselves — one should keep it in mind. But I would like to stress that for the Center Party ownership is fundamental, and there must be no doubt about whose side we stand in this case. Removals which do not take place immediately with the assistance of the police shall be done in an orderly manner, taking due account of all involved. I would like to conclude this speech by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved, with the exception of the reservation to which I have also called for approval, and with the particular opinion of the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates in mind.
i-2168165010e3b43e-105	Mr President, I would like to Homelessness, the lack of a home, is something we have tried to get away from through welfare. No one should have to live cramped, live on the street or feel the insecurity of missing a home. It is only when homelessness is a fact that we realise that housing and housing policy cannot just be big business and something we talk about at the general meetings of the major construction companies. It is about human dignity, people's opportunities for a future and what ambition we have for welfare in Sweden. That is the social issue on which this issue is concerned. In fact, Sweden is richer than ever. There are families in Sweden who have such large fortunes that they cannot handle themselves during their lifetime, while there are those who do not have a roof over their heads. I think this is terribly out of date. In 2017, there is no room for such large economic gaps. All people have talents, dreams and future plans. The best way to crush all of this, in children and their parents, is to remove people from the fixed point of life, treat them badly and carelessly and not give them the opportunity to build a good future. Take the Swedish housing policy. It currently subsidises the families who sit on super expensive villas at nice addresses in Stockholm. At the same time, we are doing very little to combat acute homelessness. I don't think that's fair. That is not how I think we should allocate our common resources. As soon as a lovely player at Södermalm wants to replace his kitchen for the first, second or third time in a year, the taxpayer is there and stands for the bill. When the property tax was changed to a fee, millions of dollars were donated to the richest families in Sweden. The gap in the Swedish housing market is enormous because of this. Yet we stand here today and think that it would be so hard to give some homeless families shelter over their heads. Save the Children came out last week with a report showing that over 5,000 children live in homelessness in the country's 25 largest municipalities; however, the number of darkness is quite large. Both children and parents feel psychologically and physically ill because of insecurity and uncertainty about the future. Children live with constant concern about how to live, often in environments that are completely unsuitable for children. Many children show symptoms of stress and trauma, often leading to longer periods of illness. The report also shows that homelessness is both a consequence of and a reason for child poverty. The psychological effects of poverty combined with homelessness are low self-esteem, powerlessness, anger, depression, anxiety and boredom. Personal social relationships are adversely affected. Under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, children have the right to a fair standard of living, which can accommodate their physical, mental and social development. In Sweden, the public has a special responsibility to secure people's needs for housing. The safety of children must always be a priority and, of course, the home is absolutely fundamental. Therefore, it is serious that exclusion from the ordinary housing market has increased so much in recent years. There are still far too high demands on tenants. Competition has intensified significantly in the housing market, and more families with children are homeless. The UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights believes that certain fundamental principles and aspects should always be taken into account. These include, inter alia: All citizens have the right to a certain legal right of possession. In cases where there are groups without legal protection, the State should take the initiative to ensure that this is addressed, in genuine consultation with the people affected. In order for an accommodation to be considered adequate, basic facilities must be provided to ensure health, personal safety and comfort. A suitable home must be habitable, i.e. provide protection against cold, mold, moisture, pests and various types of danger to the individual. I therefore believe that the proposal we are debating today is more of a symptom of what we all realise is the fundamental problem: acute homelessness. There are probably quite few of us in this House today who would choose to settle on someone else's property if we had another choice. This is precisely the election that the government does not make clear in connection with these legislative proposals. Moving people around from empty to empty in a long circus is, I mean, just immoral. It doesn't solve the individual's problem with not having a home. The government therefore needs to come back with proposals on how we can solve the problem of homelessness in the long term. People's need for a home will not in itself be met by this proposal. In consultation with the people concerned, the government needs to present proposals that go beyond what we are dealing with here today. Having said that, we support much of the government's proposal today. However, in order for legal certainty not to be inferior, we propose a number of amendments so that both parties to the case can make their voice heard in an equivalent manner. Above all, I maintain what the Government itself has argued for in its proposal to the Riksdag regarding time limits for the handling of matters by the enforcement officer and the costs of the procedure. I believe that the committee's assessment is worse than that of the government. Having said that, I am in favour of reservation 3.
i-2168165010e3b43e-123	Mr President, I would like to It was a rather strange speech to listen to. It seems that Nooshi Dadgostar took the wrong speech and actually made the speech on the next debate, which will be about a more effective planning and construction law and on construction. In no part is this bill about construction. This obviously does not prevent the Left Party from ripping up a directory of rights linked to residents. The question then has to be asked: Does the Left Party mean that one can occupy another's land as the basis of one's residence and then have all the rights that Nooshi Dadgostar lists: possession protection, basic facilities and prohibition of overcrowding? It is not housing construction that we are discussing in this debate. I hope Nooshi Dadgostar is aware of that. Then we have to ask ourselves: Does the Left Party think that it is legitimate to occupy another's land just because it needs it?
i-2168165010e3b43e-126	Mr President, I would like to I regret that Mr Bohlin did not feel amused by my left-wing speech. But I guess we're here to have different opinions on the matter. I have reservations about what Mr Bohlin will also be voting against in this House today, namely that we should develop a strategy for how we resolve the problem in the long term. We have no comments on the legislative proposal in its essential parts. Of course, you shouldn't have someone on your own plot that you don't want there, but long-term it doesn't solve the problem, because then the family has to move to the next plot. Isn't that right? I believe that we must have a long-term strategy, so that people have a place to go. They obviously have no choice because they have to settle on other people's land. For me, it is important that we solve the problem fundamentally, otherwise we just move people around. It is not good for the individual landowner, the bailiff who is going to spend his time on this or the police who have much else that is important to devote themselves to. I do not mean that it is the responsibility of the individual landowner to do this. I believe that it is the public – the government, the state – that should have a long-term thinking on this issue. I regret the fact that Mr Bohlin is voting against such a fundamental proposal to create a solution that will last a little longer.
i-2168165010e3b43e-131	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, what do you say? That speech did not make any sense. My point was that Nooshi Dadgostar is giving a speech on housing policy when we talk about a particular form of hands-on, which we are now introducing. Housing policy has nothing to do with this. But since Nooshi Dadgostar wants this to be about housing policy, one becomes curious: Does the Left Party really think it is a legitimate platform for housing policy that people occupy the land of others? Then Nooshi Dadgostar starts by answering: No, we don't think so, but if you have a need for it it can still be okay. This is for me to check with property rights, one of the most fundamental rights that exist. The Left Party has never been a great defender of being able to protect one's property rights, and it shines through in this discussion. We want to talk about anything other than the issue, namely the possibility of effectively enforcing our property rights.
i-2168165010e3b43e-134	Mr President, I would like to It goes without saying that this is a question of people having no place to live. How can you not see it as a politician in parliament? You can't take things in drainpipes. It is not the responsibility of individual private landowners to resolve the issue, but it is clear that these are people who have no place to live. They don't have a lease, and there aren't enough housing in our country. That's why they have to do it this way. If a politician like Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin does not see the underlying causes, he will never ever be able to solve any problem that we see, but he will just focus on the symptoms and move the problems around. I don't believe it. I think a lot of people are hurt by it. I think that together we need to agree on how to do-- what social problems do we have in our country that make so many people have nowhere to live? We must, of course, resolve this issue as well. This does not mean that most parts of the bill are bad. But if we are to resolve this in the long term, the housing policy is the answer to the question.
i-2168165010e3b43e-138	Mr President, I would like to I'm on 2nd chapter. Section 18 provides that everyone must have access to nature according to the right of public access. But right of public access is, first and foremost, a customary right. It's something we should be incredibly proud of. It is one of the finest things we have here in Sweden: the right for everyone, rich and poor, to travel over other people's land for a limited period of time and stay there for a short time, for example picking berries and mushrooms. But with the right of public access, there are also demands for caution towards nature and wildlife, as well as towards the landowner and other people. For the Liberals, the removal bill, which we are debating today, is not a difficult issue. Outside the scope of the right of public access, it is not permitted to settle on another person's land without consent, nor should it be. The right to property is constitutionally protected, and it is important that there is a functioning and legally secure regime for how landowners and other rights of use victims of illegal settlements can be helped to get the land back in their possession. It is first and foremost the Police Act that should be used to ensure that landowners get their land back. However, the Liberals consider that the introduction of removals as a new type of special assistance is necessary because the existing legislation has significant shortcomings, inter alia by imposing on the applicant for special assistance in order to remove illegal residence a far-reaching responsibility to identify all the persons making use of the residence in question. If the applicant does not provide details of the counterparty's name, social security number and residence address, the application may be rejected. In the case of settlements where there is continuous migration and removal, the requirement for the landowner to disclose the identity of the persons who have illegally resided there may be almost impossible to fulfil. It can almost be easier to get to Mars, given how many people come and go. We therefore welcome the new legislation. However, there were many points where the Government's proposal to Parliament was not sufficient. I would like to mention some of them here today. Firstly, I shall highlight the powers of the Political Authority. First of all, the government fails to create a clear legal framework for the powers and obligations of the Politice Authority in dealing with leftover property when, with the support of the Police Act in particular, the police intervene against illegal residence. We all believe that it is first and foremost the police law that should be used, and that is why it must be improved. This problem has been highlighted, among other things, by the Ombudsman for Justice, who suggests in his referral that additional rules should be introduced on the question of how property left behind after intervention under § 13 of the Police Act should be handled. The Liberals share this assessment and consider that additional rules would improve the possibility for the police to actively exploit their legal possibilities to intervene against illegal settlements and would provide more legal certainty for the evicted persons as there would be clearer rules on what would happen to property left on the ground after an unauthorised residence has been removed. We in the Liberals are therefore pleased that the entire Committee on Civil Liberties agrees with the Liberals' request on this point and that the Government is given the task of clarifying these rules. Since we all support the fact that it is precisely the Police Act that is to be used, this is a good reinforcement of that particular law. Secondly, I will talk about the enforcement of decisions. The balancing of interests that needs to be done in connection with enforcement is primarily to ensure that illegal residents do not suffer unacceptable consequences in connection with removal, for example in very difficult weather conditions. The special responsibility of social services to ensure that children are not harmed must also be taken into account. The Government mentions in the bill that the defendant should be given the opportunity to object to the procedure but that the nature of the case allows the defendant rarely to successfully raise objections to the substance and to have the right to stay on the ground. In this part, the Liberals believe that the bill leaves too much scope for interpretation. The examination of the removal as such has already taken place at an earlier stage, and the only thing to be examined in connection with the enforcement is the date and details of the removal – not whether or not enforcement is to take place. Liberals believe that the starting point must be that enforcement should take place as quickly as possible and that special circumstances are needed to postpone it. The Liberals consider that it would be appropriate to wait a few hours so that the social services can arrange any necessary and deemed necessary measures. We have legislation that places quite high demands on social services to protect and help people in this situation, and then we cannot have another legislation that means that social services cannot get a few hours of breathing space to actually do their job. Liberals are convinced that this flexibility is necessary for social services to be able to perform their official duties safely and effectively. We believe that the clarifications contained in the report of the Committee on Civil Liberties are good. Thirdly, I shall refer to the level of fees for the applicant. The current fee levels of the enforcement officer have also been strongly criticised. Today, the Swedish Enforcement Authority collects a basic fee of SEK 600 for each defendant who is subject to the execution of a special handrail. In the case of residence where many people reside, the amount of the contribution can therefore be quite significant. The Government announces in its legislative proposal that it intends to revise the provisions of the regulation on fees at the Swedish Enforcement Authority, with a view to providing some relief for applicants in the case of several defendants. However, there is no specific indication as to what this might mean in concrete terms. Liberals would therefore like to point out that it is incredibly urgent to introduce a ceiling on the amount of fees a landowner or other right-holder may have to pay. One should not have to be rich to use the right of public access, and one should definitely not have to be rich to ensure that one's land does not have illegal settlements or to be able to get rid of them. It should not only be rich Swedes who should be able to pay to get rid of illegal settlements; it should be possible for all Swedes who own land to do so. Like the Federation of Farmers, LRF, for example, the Liberals therefore consider this ceiling to be low. In view of the fact that many landowners have the chance to move their illegal settlements around, i.e. between different places within the same area, it is also important that the ceiling amount is linked to the applicant and not to the removal measure. Liberals are very pleased with the committee's compromise proposal. It is almost a carbon copy of the Liberals' proposal, which is why our request on this point will also be accepted. We're very happy about that. Finally, in the Liberals, we would like to point out that we support the legislative amendments proposed by the committee that the time limit for removal should be five days from the time when the defendant is informed of the enforcement and that the length of proceedings by the Enforcement Authority should be three weeks from the date of receipt of the documents. We also support the other two notices on application costs and a review of the legislation. Above all, we in the Liberals are pleased that today we are getting two announcements that will clarify the police's powers to seize objects and that the costs for the applicant will be low and have a ceiling. As the committee has almost landed in the Liberals' – if I may say so – very well balanced positions, the Liberals have no reservations here today. I support the committee's proposal as a whole and reject all reservations. Mr President, I would like to The right of public access is one of the finest things we have, and it should be preserved. But we should not allow illegal settlements that violate the rules of public access and property protection of the Constitution. This new legislation is a good protection, and it protects both public and property rights.
i-2168165010e3b43e-158	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish housing market is in crisis. Although construction has accelerated, housing shortages are widespread throughout the country. According to Boverket's summary of the situation in the housing market from 2016, there is a shortage of rental rights in 240 of the country's 290 municipalities, preferably in the country's major cities and around the larger universities. The lack of apartments has many socially damaging consequences: 中 Young people find it difficult to move to cities where there are job and education opportunities. . Growth companies find it difficult to recruit the right skills and provide employees with housing. 中 Couples find it more difficult to find larger homes when they want to start a family. The elderly find it difficult to find a smaller apartment when the children move out. 中 New arrivals find it more difficult to establish themselves in areas where there are easier jobs that could facilitate integration. How do we solve the housing shortage? That is one of the big questions, and the answers are urgently needed. There is no answer or solution – far from it – and there is a need for both short-term and long-term changes. We are debating the report today More steps towards a more effective planning and construction law, which proposes faster planning processes to get construction going. The changes aim to make the planning process more effective and include that the municipalities should be able to get information from the county administrative board about what the state thinks about the planned construction. This reduces the risk of municipalities spending time on planning unnecessarily. Decisions relating to detailed plans should be delegated from the municipal council to the municipal board or building boards. Then the processing time will hopefully be shorter and the costs reduced. More measures can also be exempted from the building permit requirement of the Planning and Construction Act. For private individuals, it may be a matter of building a balcony or caged language in one- and two-housing buildings in areas with a detailed plan. The Christian Democrats think these steps are good but would have liked the government to go further. Similarly, I cannot help thinking about what would have happened if the Social Democrats and the Green Party had voted in favour of the bill presented by the Alliance in June 2014. By then, these proposals had already been passed and were a reality. The time that now passes from someone's intention to build a house until a key can be put in the door is far too long. Long lead times are cost-driven, increase the risk for the builder and reduce competition as it is mainly large companies that can afford to spend money for as long a period as is often the case. Lead times stand in the way of increased housing production and make it more difficult to quickly change the pace of construction. The Christian Democrats put together with the rest of the Alliance a follow-up motion in which we are clear but what is further needed. We believe that there is a need to reduce lead times for housing construction, especially with regard to municipal detailed planning. We therefore propose that the detailed planning rules set by the municipalities should be analysed in order to determine which requirements are reasonable, in order to allow for more simplifications in the Planning and Construction Act. We want certain detailed plan provisions no longer to apply after the end of the implementation period. Furthermore, virtually all actors in the housing and construction sectors agree that the current planning processes for building housing take too long overall. Therefore, further action should be taken. The construction start-up process needs to be shortened and therefore the requirement for a start-up notification should be removed from the Planning and Construction Act. We would also like to see further exemptions from the requirement for building permits for weather protection next to each other as well as advertising signs related to weather protection, which is also affected in the proposal we are discussing today. The Government proposes in the bill that certain changes in colour, cladding and extensions should be exempted from building permits. We welcome this, but there is reason to follow up how this type of exemption or building permit exemption is handled by the municipalities. We therefore propose that the Government should follow up that municipalities do not abuse the possibility of reintroducing in a detailed plan requirements for building permits for measures exempted from building permits. It would also be appropriate to examine the possibility of extending the exemption for building permits for new buildings to new buildings in public places where the municipality is not a landowner. I think it is positive that the Government is taking part in today's debate. In addition to the contributions that I have already made, I would like to take this opportunity to recall the announcement that exists regarding the right of private initiative. In doing so, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 3.
i-2168165010e3b43e-178	Mr President, I would like to For time-winning, I also call for reservation 3, although of course we support all the reservations of the Alliance. Sweden must have more housing – now! I'd say it's never been more important. Housing policy and the need for more housing is one of Sweden's most important societal challenges, Mr President. This is particularly true for municipalities and for their development and opportunities. Migration challenges, population growth in big cities, population decline in rural areas, studies, the labour market, growth, fiscal power – the list can be long. When housing policy is discussed and debated in the general public debate, we all too often end up in a debate on particulars rather than in a debate on the whole. There is often a debate in which experts in narrowly defined areas throw percentages, amortisation requirements, mortgages, legal clauses and square metres in the head of ordinary people in a way that often becomes completely incomprehensible. Of course, growth and the functioning of the labour market are important, but this is perhaps not the most important thing for the individual. Housing policy must be about opportunities for all – young people, older people, students, families with children and single people. It is about the life and content of the city, the district, the suburbs, the village and the neighbourhood. It is about building a country, a society and a community – a society that stays together. Accommodation is the foundation of everything. A functioning housing market creates enormous opportunities. Similarly, housing problems, housing structures and housing policy are becoming a huge societal challenge – perhaps the biggest. The challenges on the Swedish housing market spill over into almost all policy areas. There are no simple or individual solutions, but these are basic and long-term sound conditions and rules of play for increased housing construction across the board. One of the keys to this, Mr President, is simplification – faster, simpler and cheaper. The Alliance government carried out extensive regulatory simplifications, which is one of the main reasons why we now have the most intensive housing building in several decades in Sweden. At the same time, Mr President, we must never settle down. Therefore, it is crucial that we continue the simplification journey if we are to address current and future challenges in the residential area. Mr President, I would like to The proposal we are now discussing, More steps for a more effective planning and construction law, is a watered-down proposal in relation to what the alliance government once put forward, but it is still a case forward. The parties that now form the government – or that form part of the red-green government base – opposed together, together with the Swedish Democrats or separately, almost all the regulatory simplifications proposed by the alliance government. Speaking time does not admit that I am going through all these countless examples, but the proposal we are now going to adopt is actually about the government accepting a number of years too late the measures proposed by the Alliance several years ago. This, Mr President, is not an active housing policy. When I hear, here today, environmentalist ministers and Members of Parliament stand and talk about accepting only the old alliance proposals that were previously opposed to an active housing policy – and also when you expect praise and gratitude for it – I can only react, Mr President. What is actually said is that people are expected to be grateful that the Green Party has come to realize that there is something called reality and realities. I note that the government parties now claim to agree with the importance of continuing the regulatory simplification of housing and construction, even though, as usual, it is expressed in very unclear and very passive terms. Mr President, I would like to The government would have been able to get any simplifications through the parliament tomorrow if you wanted to and if you had had any proposals of your own. It is as paradoxical as it is untenable, and indeed directly unacceptable, that no previous government has delivered as few proposals as the current one to make it easier to build housing in Sweden, even though we see the worst housing crisis in 50 years. For example, Minister Ygeman has presented 74 proposals – in the area of housing policy we have had to settle for less than a tenth of it. Mr President, I would like to This is, once again, totally unacceptable and totally unsustainable, given the situation that Sweden is currently in with regard to the housing market. It is totally unacceptable and something that needs to be changed for the future, faster than quickly. The government has had to be dragged to everything – everything from more flexible noise regulations to the concessions it was forced to make in the migration settlement. Once again, Mr President, what we are going to decide on today is good, but that is not enough. That's not enough by a long shot. As the Red-Green Government, tackling major societal challenges, such as housing policy, is not the way forward for Sweden. It is not the message – or rather the absence of it – that is needed. It is also not in this way that challenges for individuals and for Sweden as a whole are solved.
i-2168165010e3b43e-198	Mr President, I would like to We all agree that a number of different proposals are needed to overcome the housing shortage we have in Sweden. I am pleased that, in the current situation, we can nevertheless agree on a series of proposals in this proposal and across the blocs to bring about improvements in this area. The proposals put forward create simplifications. Among other things, they make it easier for individuals to make changes, to change the colour of their home's facade and to avoid building permits for extensions in the form of balconies, cage languages or the like. These measures will facilitate, but we will have to follow them up to ensure that it works well after the proposals have been passed. It is particularly important that we ensure that we keep our valuable buildings around the country and that they are not in any way a victim of the new policy. I hope that we will monitor this so that there will be no change there. It is in the municipalities that have not specifically identified valuable buildings that problems can arise when we change the law today. When it comes to simplifications and creating a more efficient planning and construction law, the proposal includes a proposal to obtain a planning statement from the county administrative boards when municipalities develop detailed plans – this in order not to in vain planning, as they call it in the municipalities, should take place. This is something that of course makes it easier to get detailed plans more quickly and creates the conditions for faster construction. It also introduces a two-month deadline for county administrative boards to withdraw a decision on a detailed plan, which means that it is possible to find out more quickly whether a detailed plan has been approved or not. Together with other measures that the government is now finally looking at, such as common building regulations in the Nordic countries and improved loan financing for construction companies and hopefully also starting to look more at better competitive measures and regional housing planning support, we may at least take a few steps forward to get to a better construction in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats have two reservations about the report, and I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1. For time winning, I skip the second reservation. Reservation 1 is about the fact that we, from the Swedish Democrats, do not agree with increased delegation rights to adopt detailed plans in the municipal board or building committee. The reason is that we believe that a detailed plan is so important that citizens should be able to have an influence, be able to influence and also listen to the debate and hear how the parties ask themselves on different issues. The detailed plans can of course be about consequences that extend several decades forward. If decisions are made in a board or on a municipal board, the problem is that they are often closed to the public, so you cannot take part in the debate that is taking place there. Not all parties are represented in the committees either. There are fewer people on the boards than in the municipal council. That is why we believe it is important to maintain the present system. Although it may extend the process to some extent, we believe that continued transparency for citizens is so important. Transferring decisions on the adoption of more detailed plans from the municipal board and building board does not pose a problem for the individual citizen when it comes to applying for different planning changes, but it is still possible to use the so-called standard procedure. Instead, it concerns decisions on other detailed plans. Our second reservation is about reviewing what measures can be proposed to reduce the obstruction that arises in detailed plans for construction. It is important to look at how much a detailed plan needs to contain, if there is anything that can be regulated to facilitate construction, so that too many detailed requirements in the detailed plans are not unlocked. We believe that we could come up with something that could make it easier for construction companies and other actors to act on the construction market.
i-2168165010e3b43e-209	Mr President, I would like to Rules that delay and hinder housing construction should not have to be imposed. It was clear under the previous government, but unfortunately it has become somewhat less clear now. The current Planning and Construction Act was developed by the first Alliance Government at the Ministry of the Environment, which was led by a Center Party minister. Then we got a housing minister, Stefan Attefall, and then the work has been able to continue. We note that housing construction with social democratic-led governments has increased from a stable low level of more than 20 000 homes a year to at least a temporary and comparatively high figure of 40 000 completed dwellings in 2016, according to TMF statistics. The increase began in 2012, when the Center Party and the Alliance ruled, and continued in 2013 and 2014. So far, the various red-green housing ministers have not succeeded in putting an end to the positive developments. This is not the time to have a broad and general political debate – we are saving this – but it has to be said that there is a need for greater reforms than some changes to the margin of the planning and construction law that is now before us for decisions. What is pleasing is that the government will finally implement a change that allows the municipal council to delegate the adoption of a detailed plan to the municipal board or building board, unless it is of principle or greater importance. It is a proposal that could have been implemented a long time ago, but then the Social Democrats and the Green Party did not want to do so, and the Swedish Democrats chose to support the red-green ones, so implementation has been delayed until now. As we heard earlier, the Swedish Democrats and Roger Hedlund are still against the proposal, because it may be suspected that a yes could lead to more housing for more people, and that is not really in line with their policy. The other parties justify their reversal by the fact that there is now a greater need than then for more housing. It's a late awakening, you might say. In my view, it was perhaps even more urgent at the time, when planning processes needed more simplification, but then your cooperation was not like that. And perhaps it was good to join forces with the Swedish Democrats when it came to stopping good proposals from the alliance parties and putting sticks in the wheels of the then government. Long and unpredictable planning processes are still being talked about. It is quite characteristic of government policy at the moment, including in the residential area, that it is long and unpredictable. One can and should do even more to remove steps in the planning processes, reduce the requirements for building permits and detailed plans and increase access to buildable land by, for example, reviewing things like beach protection and also national interests. It also provides relief in the requirement for building permits when it comes to minor changes, such as changing paint or wall coverings if the building faces a built-in farm. These aren't big changes. These, Mr President, are so marginal changes that it is almost stupid to even talk about them. I therefore refrain from paying tribute to the government's regulatory simplification work and move on to talking about what it should be like. I can say briefly that, despite attacks by the first party of the Rules of Procedure – the Left Party – things that have been criticised in the past and which have facilitated expansions that increase the available housing space and its function may remain. Instead, we in the Center Party want to go the other way and make the detailed plans more comprehensive and less governing. We have exercised this, and we also have a reservation on this. When the government refers to ongoing investigations, one cannot help but draw attention to the way in which they themselves rallied over the 55 investigations and missions launched by former housing ministers, which the government is now trying to implement, as best they can, but unfortunately at too low a pace. It can be a major problem for property owners, Mr President, when an old and long-standing detailed plan prevents the proper use of buildings and puts an end to the modernisation of homes, various accessibility adjustments and densification. It is incomprehensible to us that the government parties should implement one of the proposals of the Plan Implementation Investigation, the delegation of decisions from the council to the municipal board and building board, and not the other, which means that one can go in and make minor changes to the old plans after the end of the implementation period. This would have a direct impact on the possibility of densifying and producing more and more suitable housing. Why do you have to start a long, costly and unpredictable planning process if it's about converting a garage into a farmhouse or adapting a garbage room to modern source sorting? It may also involve providing more people with access to housing through densification and better use. This proposal deserves both rice and rose, but essentially the government parties do not deserve any flower at all for what they do to create more housing in existing stocks. When the government is allowed to decide, it is exclusively a matter of paying private construction companies and rewarding already expansive municipalities with tax billions in the form of a building bonus. Mr President, I would like to Regulatory simplification must be an ongoing process that cannot be replaced by temporary incentives. It is not possible to pay off the responsibility to shorten planning processes and lead time from idea to migration. There is a need for real housing policy reforms relating to taxation, mobility, renting and the conditions for building even in small towns outside large cities. Strong regulatory simplifications are needed, such as allowing developers to initiate and implement a planning process themselves, which is then submitted to the municipal council for decision. What happened to the proposal to give the regions a role in housing planning, as the representatives of all parliamentary parties agreed on in the Housing Planning Committee? They wanted regional planning to be put in place that coordinates infrastructure and housing – what many talk about as the great opportunity for more housing. There is a need for simplified beach protection, and there is a need for greater opportunities to build, despite obstacles in the form of national interests and protection of various kinds. It is not possible to sit passively when the need for new housing far exceeds the number currently being built. As has already been said in the debate: it is not possible to move into a forecast – even if it points to an increase of around 60 000 homes, especially when Boverket claims that there is a need to build 90 000 homes in the next few years. Mr President, I would like to I call for the approval of reservation 3, which concerns further exemptions from the requirement for building permits in the field of weather protection. With reference to previous debates, it is not desirable for someone to have to live in a weather shelter. The Center Party will again come up with more proposals on this issue in later debates.
i-2168165010e3b43e-235	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating more steps for more effective planning and construction teams. In order to get a large and extensive building of housing that people will also be able to pay for, it will still be the economic issues in housing policy that are important. Financing conditions and tax conditions are important tools when we talk about quantity and increased number of homes. Today, it is primarily labour shortages that prevent us from building even more homes. Deteriorated rules, which lead to, for example, poor quality in construction, do not provide more housing. Nowhere can we see such an effect. On the contrary, it risks leading to the wrong people entering the construction industry for completely the wrong reasons or a fall in housing standards, which ultimately affects individuals and society as a whole. It is not the number of legislative changes that is important, but rather the size and design of them. In this case, the government has proposed a number of legislative changes, and some of them are perfectly all right. However, I find it difficult to see that they will have a significant impact on the construction of more housing. However, some of them may have some effect. It proposes a number of relatively comprehensive measures in the built environment, which should not be preceded by a building permit. The consequence is that the municipality can only intervene afterwards if errors have been committed. I believe that it involves a huge waste of resources and creates risks for the individual property owner as well. The risk is that for cities valuable buildings will be disfigured and fulfied. It can be seen that the Government understands that the proposal is not fundamentally balanced, and it therefore proposes certain exceptions – that it should not apply to buildings that are considered to be particularly valuable in a historical, cultural, environmental and artistic perspective, for example. The only problem is that such boundaries do not really exist. There may be many such areas that are not identified in advance but are still valid. This places high demands on the person who, in the individual case, will assess the nature of the area. Where there is no prior checking, risks and problems may arise. I am quite sure that most people would feel more secure by checking that the safety requirements on balconies are met and implemented in their entirety. The government has also received broad and strong criticism on this issue, from the various referees to judge. At the same time, I note that the government has taken a number of initiatives on the development of architecture and the design of the living environment. That's good. This presupposes, however, that municipalities have legal possibilities to influence these particular parts. The influence of society on construction is made concrete through, among other things, the building permit. In order to make designal balances and achieve good coordination over time in our urban environments, it is important that the municipality's tools for working on these particular issues are not weakened. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-2168165010e3b43e-245	Mr President, I would like to It always gets a little animated when you debate housing policy with the Left Party. For the Left Party never has any proposals for housing policy of its own, but problems most generally. At best, reference is made to something vague. This debate has probably gone about the same way as the previous ones. Let me ask, speaking of the Left Party's total lack of housing policy: what ideas does Nooshi and her party have on how to simplify housing construction in Sweden? I do not mean simplification at the margin, but more profound changes in terms of simplifications so that we can get more housing in Sweden. The only thing the Left Party has been for during this parliamentary term is a number of measures that make it harder to build and more difficult to rent out housing, when we really need it the other way round. Let me ask you a rather fundamental question: what do the Left Party have for substantial, radical simplification proposals to get more housing in Sweden?
i-2168165010e3b43e-249	Mr President, I would like to Let me remind Mats Green that what we are now discussing is the proposal submitted by the government to Parliament, and I am of course referring to the proposals contained in this proposal. If Mats Green wants a more general political debate, there are arenas in the country, ABF houses and other things, where we can discuss these issues. Of course, we can also do so in public policy debates here in the Swedish Parliament. I am saying this for the sake of form to remind Mats Green of what this debate is actually about. That is also why I am speaking on the basis of this proposal. As I said in my speech, I am of the opinion that quality requirements are important for the houses we are building today to last over time. I don't think we should build shantytowns. We're supposed to have rules for the homes we're building. It is not reasonable that the car industry, for example, today has more rules to deal with than the housing sector, in some parts. That's not the way Mats Green says. He has been in a government that proposed a lot of wonderful changes to the regulations, such as Attefallshusen and all the other parts that he himself knows about. This does not create so many more homes in the way that Mats Green wants to express. That is why I believe that the financial and tax components are important. Today we notice that things are going up and down in construction, although we often have fairly equivalent regulations, and things are going up and down in different municipalities. Mats Green's own municipality, for example, builds very little, while Örebro municipality can build a lot with the same regulations. Then there must be more things you can talk about than what Mats Green is talking about, such as the financing parts, which I think are absolutely fundamental for us to be able to build more housing.
i-2168165010e3b43e-255	Mr President, I would like to Nooshi Dadgostar actually says two things. First of all, she does not want to be plagued with too much factual knowledge. Secondly, in a housing debate in the Swedish Parliament, she does not want to discuss housing policy at all. Now we are back to problematizing in general what problems this poses. No one questions it, but I think we all agree there. That is why we have concrete proposals and a concrete policy, and that is why Mrs Nooshi and her party do not have it. I would like to ask it again in Nooshi Dadgostar's view too fundamental the question: what does the Left Party have for housing policy, and what do the Left Party have for radical, powerful proposals to make it easier to build housing in Sweden and to rent out housing in Sweden? I have asked this question seven times during this term of office but have never received an answer, more than an angry argument about what Sweden looked like before 1917. We can have that debate in Folkets Hus, but now, in a housing debate in the Swedish Parliament, I actually want an answer from the Left Party: What are your own proposals when it comes to getting more housing in Sweden and making it easier to rent more housing in Sweden? In fact, this fundamental housing policy question I think that the Left Party should answer at some point, in some context and in some locality in Sweden.
i-2168165010e3b43e-259	Mr President, I would like to I note that Mats Green only wants to ralli. When he decided, 20 000 homes were built in Sweden. When the Left Party is involved, the forecast is 75,000 per year. Let the voters judge which housing policy seems to be the most successful! We have been involved in developing the large housing package contained in the budget. There we invest in renovation support for rental apartments. We are investing in extensive investment aid for the construction of new rental apartments. We will make it easier for the companies to finance their tenancy building through government loans that are advantageous. We have been involved in deciding on major regulatory changes. We want to make quite large changes in the general interest law in order for the utilities to have more space to produce new housing. There is a lot of legislation that has meant that the public good feels prevented from implementing projects because it is believed that yield requirements must be sky-high and so on. There is much we need to do to change the regulations so that the municipalities themselves can produce many more housing through their commons. We have been involved in giving municipalities more tools. We will now look at being able to make demands on developers to actually build on the land that is planned in detail and where there is a land guide, for example. All these things are very important, and I am absolutely sure that there are many municipalities in Sweden that want to do even more and who want to use their plan monopoly, land ownership and public utilities to build more. We need to communicate with each other and do this together. But I see that it is not enough for Mats Green, who is just smiling in the speaker's chair.
i-2168165010e3b43e-264	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. For time to come, we do not ask for our other reservations to be accepted, but of course we fully support them as well. Today, we are debating the government's legislative proposal for more steps towards a more effective planning and construction law. This can best be summed up as covering a number of good but – if anything – very small regulatory simplifications in the Planning and Construction Act. Mr President, I would like to I welcome the fact that the Minister for Housing is here today, but one might wonder why the Minister for Housing has reason to be proud of the bill today. It doesn't contain much. Firstly, the proposals we are voting on today are good, but they will not mean a revolution for housing construction in Sweden. However, of these minor changes to the Planning and Construction Act, the Liberals particularly welcome the proposal for a start-up notification. Almost all stakeholders in the construction sector agree that the current planning processes for building housing take too long. Therefore, further action should be taken. Especially the process from idea to construction start needs to be shortened. It is therefore a good thing that the requirement for a start-up notification is removed from the Planning and Construction Act. Sweden does not need dumping but broad reforms of the housing market, as the OECD, the European Commission, the Council of Finance Ministers and even Göran Persson and many experts think. Secondly, most of the government's proposals today are old alliance policies that have been known and have been conducted for many years. There are already well-known positions on regulatory simplification that the Liberals and the Alliance have been behind for many years. It is remarkable that today we are debating legislative proposals that should have been implemented a long time ago, but the government parties Social Democrats and the Green Party voted against many of these proposals when they themselves belonged to the opposition. When the government tabled the bill A simpler planning process, about changes to the Planning and Construction Act – it is very similar to the name of the bill that we are discussing today – at the Riksdag table in spring 2014, the possibility of a shorter planning process was already raised. But in the Civil Committee, the Red-Green, supported by the Swedish Democrats, chose to say no to proposals for a shorter planning process. The red-green and SD said no to the fact that it should not be mandatory for municipalities to draw up a detailed plan to the same extent as today. The Red-Green and Swedish Democrats also said no to the proposal that the municipal council should be able, to a greater extent than today, to give the municipal board and the building committee the task of adopting detailed plans. The Red-Green and Swedish Democrats also said no to the Alliance Government's proposal that the provisions of a detailed plan relating to the design of construction works and plots should cease to apply after the end of the implementation period, with some exceptions. By 161 votes to 159, they won red-green and SD. Mr President, I would like to I would like the Minister for Housing to explain why in 2014 his party voted against these proposals, which now appear to be incredibly necessary and which he is delivering to the House now that he himself belongs to the government. As has been said, the Liberals welcome the smaller proposals being debated today, and the Alliance has jointly put forward further improvement proposals on regulatory simplifications in connection with the bill, including investigating that building permits should not be required on public land and on the abuse by municipalities of reintroduction of building permit requirements, dual weather protection and building permit exemption also for weather protection advertising signs. You yourself hear that these are not the most broad reforms, which give rise to a revolution in the housing market. Mr President, I would like to Ola Johansson from the Center Party mentioned that one cannot live in a forecast. I believe that it is not possible to live in a plan process either. The planning processes in Sweden are too long. The law governs the design process, and it needs to be changed. The leased market is a socialist failure, and the owned market is extremely overheated due to the processes and the rental market. I want to talk about how Swedish newspapers write and report on the Swedish housing shortage. I would like to mention some of the Swedish newspaper headlines that have occurred recently: The housing shortage: In the third block 15 people, Many turn down jobs due to the housing situation, Reportage from the housing shortage's Åmål– how many here thought we had housing shortages in Åmål– The housing shortage is hitting young people hard, KI warns: The housing market is on the way to a crash and the IMF is making stinging criticisms of housing policy. And the director of the Migration Agency says that the hardest thing is to find housing for new arrivals. Deficit of housing in three out of four municipalities! Malmö's house prices are rushing – the average villa now costs 4.6 million! How many people in here can afford 4.6 million to have a place to live? A lack of housing forces separated people to live in a suitcase! Just the last thing about living in a suitcase I think is funny. But it can't be that much fun. Mr President, I would like to Liberals have done their homework to meet the enormous housing shortage that we have here in Sweden. In fact, the policy we had in the past did not provide an answer to how all Swedes should have the opportunity to have a roof over their heads, something that we consider to be a human right. I do not believe that the other parties in this House have done their homework or reassessed their policies sufficiently. We in the Liberals want to see radical and long-term reforms of the housing market that mean that we really solve the housing crisis that we have in Sweden today, not that we come to this House with legislative changes dealing with weather protection and whether you can have two bus courses next to each other or not. Liberals' new housing policy contains three requirements. All the proposals we put forward will lead to more housing, and they will either provide increased mobility or more market thinking. I have ten pieces of advice that I would like to give to Minister Eriksson as to what proposals he can actually come back to the House with, and which are welcome and needed for Sweden. Firstly, municipalities should build according to needs and have in-depth overview plans. That is something we from the Liberals really want to see. This would give individual citizens the opportunity to actually influence. I don't think that many people are influencing with regard to all the small details that we have in Sweden today. However, if there is a possibility of an in-depth master plan, I believe that more citizens will take the opportunity to influence. It is also necessary to build according to needs. One of the biggest problems in Sweden has been that almost no municipality has built as needed. Secondly, builders should have the right to draw up detailed plans themselves. The competence does not exist today in many of the municipalities. This would actually shorten the process by almost two years if the developers themselves were to come up with detailed plans. Of course, the political representatives in the municipality can change the detailed plans as they wish. But I think it would be both cheaper for the Swedish people and go faster if developers got the right to develop detailed plans themselves. Thirdly, type-approved houses. If Peter Eriksson comes to the House with a proposal for series-produced houses that can be built freely throughout Sweden and that are approved by Boverket, then we will accept this proposal. That would make a real change. Fourthly, there needs to be fewer instances and faster appeals, and the role of the county administrative board needs to be changed from being opposed to being partners. Today, we see that there is some change in starting decisions, and that is a good thing. I would also like to remind the Minister for Housing that when you apply for asylum today you have the opportunity to turn to two bodies. But when it comes to building permits for houses, it is a matter of six bodies. First it is the whole detailed plan case and then the building permit process. I think you can look at whether there should be some kind of leave to appeal. If it falls within the framework of the plan monopoly, i.e. the municipality's power to decide for itself, you may not be granted leave to appeal. That could speed up the process. Fifthly, we need to see reforms in terms of national interest, beach protection and nature reserves in Sweden. I love Sweden, but I don't think half the country is made up of national interests. We need to change the system and make it more flexible. Sixthly, free renting in new production is needed to produce more housing and a reformed utility value system. Seventhly, there is a need for more free renting in secondary leasing and for aid for the conversion of rental apartments in, for example, residential areas. Today we have a problem in Sweden that people do not want to move from their homes. Then we may need to make it easier for older Swedes, for example, to rebuild their homes and rent out parts of them. If the government comes to this House with a proposal on this, we will accept it. Eight: Liberals say no to subsidies and yes to increased housing allowances. I do not understand how the Left Party, both in the previous debate and in this debate, can talk about how to help the vulnerable but at the same time want to put 6 billion in the pockets of rich developers who do not need them. The whole industry, even the Social Democratic expert in housing policy Lennart Weiss, says that this money is unnecessary. Liberals would rather say yes to increased housing allowances. We spend 3.6 billion more than the government on housing allowances. The government should do the same. ninthly, we want a reduction in interest but not a reduction in income. Sweden has the EU's largest interest rate deduction. They contribute to doping the housing market and should be reduced. Instead, efforts should be made to reduce income tax, so that people do not get less in their wallets. The tenth point is that we want a reduced tax on removals. The move tax needs to be reviewed to ensure that people can actually move and that there are no lock-in effects. I think Peter Eriksson is well aware of the ten points I have raised, because I have highlighted them during the housing negotiations. If we had got these ten points through, we would have had an agreement today that would have been good for Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Only yesterday, in the report of the Council of Finance Policy, a slap in the mouth came to the red-green government's lack of housing policy. Just like the Liberals, the Council of Finance Ministers believes that Sweden needs to reduce interest deductions. Sweden currently has the most favourable interest rebates across the EU. Liberals want to reduce them by 1% a year over ten years and go from 30% to 20%. We would then almost have the EU's most favourable interest rate deduction. The Council considers that this would slow down housing prices and cool down the boom. I raised this in one of my ten points. It was not something that I had no evidence of, but the research shows that it is, among other things, interest rebates that raise house prices and that an average villa in Malmö costs 4.6 million today. Instead, this money should be invested in housing allowances. Like the Liberals, the Council of Finance Ministers also believes that Sweden needs to change its rental market with more market elements. Liberals want to see a free lease with full possession rights and indexed rents in new production. We want consumer demand more clearly to control the renting of the existing stock. What I'm trying to say is actually that Rinkeby should be able to compete with the price. You don't do that today. The Financial Policy Council's report also shows that when you count in SEK it is the richest tenants in the inner city of Stockholm who gain most from the current system. It is also said that weaker households in central areas could also be affected and have problems paying the rent. But it can be solved by raising the housing supplement. The Council of Finance Ministers also believes that implementing these changes would bring the rental rights market to life. Today, we are in the process of competing out rental rights. The rental right is flexible and a type of universal service accommodation that is important to keep. We would have a better housing supply if we listened to the Council of Finance Policy – and indeed the Liberals, because that is the policy that we are pursuing. The views of the Council on the Swedish housing market are very similar to those of the Liberals on the Swedish housing market. Unlike the government, which spends 6 billion a year on unnecessary contributions to rich builders, Liberals spend 3.6 billion more than the government on increased housing allowances specifically targeted at lower-income pensioners and single parents with multiple children. What the Left Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party say no to is to give single parents and less-income pensioners higher housing allowances. Instead, they say yes to giving the money to rich developers. The builders don't even want this money. I cannot therefore understand why such a policy is being pursued. Instead, we can agree jointly to increase the housing allowance. It would be very good for Sweden and for these individuals. Mr President, I would like to I would like to hear the Minister for Housing's views on the Financial Policy Council's report. My call to the Minister for Housing is that next time he will come to this House with wide-ranging reforms on the housing market, removing unnecessary subsidies, lowering interest rebates, raising housing allowances for the weakest households and changing the leasing system to more market thinking so that more rental rights are built in Sweden. In this way, we really solve the housing crisis in Sweden.
i-2168165010e3b43e-311	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is developing strongly. 200 000 new jobs have been created since the government took office, of which 140 000 in the private sector. In 2014, the general government deficit was good 60 billion. Now we have a surplus of SEK 40 billion. The Swedish labour market continues to develop strongly. The employment rate in Sweden is the highest in the EU. The government has steered the country towards a sustainable construction of society with investments in jobs, schools, welfare and climate. The financial security of pensioners and single parents among others has been strengthened. However, challenges remain in the labour market, especially among low-skilled people who have been short-term in the country. Here the government has an ambitious and robust job agenda with a battery of proposals consisting of efforts to increase skills, easier ways to work and strong investments in housing, welfare, infrastructure and climate change. We're in a new position. In recent years Sweden has been steered in a different direction. Sweden now has the strength and resources to implement future investments and reforms that reduce unemployment and gaps, increase cohesion and combat insecurity and racism. Our ambition is to build a sustainable society where no one is left behind and no one is held back. Mr President, I would like to The government also delivers on the housing front. Housing is not just any commodity on the market. Access to housing is essential for people to fulfill their dreams, such as studying, starting a family and in a broad sense developing in the way and at the pace they want. That is why we see the acute housing shortage as a major social problem that hampers both personal and economic development. In a situation where more than 80 per cent of the country's municipalities indicate that they have a housing shortage, it is important to pursue an active housing policy, not a passive housing policy that has a naive overconfidence in the market to solve everything on its own. Therefore, the Government has investment aid of SEK 2 – 3 billion per year by 2020 for those companies that build rental and student apartments with reasonable rent and low energy consumption. The purpose of the active housing policy is that even those with less money in their wallets should be able to get a dwelling. There is a strong interest in the aid among companies, which want to build rental apartments with more reasonable rent with government investment aid. For example, a third in Lund gets the rent reduced by 1,200 SEK. Gotlandshem reduces rents by SEK 200 – 300 per month in 48 newly built apartments in Visby after receiving investment aid. It is gratifying to see that housing construction is now at record levels. According to SCB, some 63,000 new homes were built last year. It is mainly new production of multi-residential buildings and rental apartments. In 2017, residential building construction is expected to continue to grow. According to Boverket, 67,000 new apartments will start. A combination of an active government and responsibility among municipalities and construction companies and a positive economic cycle have made this possible. But we are not content with this, but we are well aware that more needs to be done. The government is therefore implementing the so-called 22-point programme for increased housing construction. It aims to reduce building costs, contribute to building more clear land, shorten lead times in the construction process, increase mobility and stimulate the construction of more rental and sustainable housing. Mr President, I would like to I agree with the government proposal. An important part of the government's 22-point programme is to make it easier to build. In order to overcome the housing shortage, we need to take steps to ensure that the construction process is as efficient and smooth as possible. Therefore, the Government is presenting this bill, which proposes amendments to the Plan and Construction Act aimed at making the planning process more efficient. The proposal provides an opportunity for municipalities to request a planning statement from the County Administrative Board within six weeks during the detailed planning process. There will be a two-month deadline for the county administrative board to suspend the municipality's decision on a detailed plan after an appeal. More plans will be adopted by the municipal board and the building committee. Additional measures are exempted from the requirement of building permits. All in all, these changes mean that municipalities have much more time to devote to important planning processes and that housing construction can go smoothly without taking unnecessarily long time, as may be the case at present.
i-2168165010e3b43e-321	Mr President, I would like to I felt myself standing up there giving a talk in the circus eight minutes that I deviated a little bit from the subject. If you have a debate on housing policy, you should of course be allowed to talk about the whole. But I think this was still a record. This statement by Mr Koliev had been well placed both in the fiscal debate and in the debate on education policy. One might rather wonder in which debate in this House it would not have worked to make that speech. But now we have on the table a bill that is about more steps for a simplified planning and construction team. The question I would like to ask in this line shift is very short and simple: are there any further steps that Faradj Koliev would like to take with regard to the Planning and Construction Act?
i-2168165010e3b43e-323	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. I think it is important to see the whole picture. Much more jobs are created than were the case before the government took office, and a lot is happening on the housing front. It is clear that we can do a great deal in terms of simplification. At the same time, it is important to ensure that development does not go too far, because it is important to build sustainable and long lasting housing. When we build housing, we build a community. I believe that the most important issue we have to deal with today is the lack of skills and labour shortages in the construction industry. Most construction companies indicate that their staff are on their knees and that they need more people. We have examples such as the municipalities Örebro and Uppsala, where a lot is being built today. The question is really what we should spend our resources and time on when it comes to housing. I see the need for us to do a great deal for what the housing companies are addressing as a major problem. The government is also doing a lot to get people into work and the construction industry and to be able to meet the goal of more housing.
i-2168165010e3b43e-325	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. There is much to consider in terms of skills shortages and resource shortages in the construction market. That is what can be said to be the major obstacle to housing construction right now. Regulatory simplification makes it much cheaper and easier and faster to get more housing. I did not get a correct answer as to whether there are any further regulatory simplifications in pyjamas in social democratic politics. In fact, I think it is indecent that well-paid and trained construction workers should have to carry out material and clean up the workplace when there are other parties that propose the possibility of using simpler jobs to ensure that this type of work goes more efficiently and can be carried out in a more cost-effective way. But that was not the debate we were going to have here today. What I am curious about is whether it is possible for the Social Democrats to consider, in the next step, the possibility for municipalities, with a simple decision, to allow changes to an already existing detailed plan after the completion of the implementation period with a view to densifying and bringing to new technical solutions that mean, for example, that they can have a modern waste sorting. Now the government has for some reason that the Minister for Housing is happy to explain later on agreed to delegate decisions on the adoption of a detailed plan to the building board and the municipal board. That's good. But there were further proposals that were even more effective. I have not heard much about what the Social Democrats, through Faradj, have for new policies to come into the residential area. I believe that we expect the regulatory simplification work of the former alliance government's Stefan Attefall and others to be able to continue and complete. Otherwise, I think it's time to change government.
i-2168165010e3b43e-330	Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, there is, of course, a need for regulatory changes. There are very many proposals that fall under the category of regulatory changes. But I think it is important now to focus on the major problems of housing construction, and it is not the regulatory simplification that Ola Johansson is talking about, but it is much broader issues, such as the lack of skills that I mentioned. Then I would like to point out that a great many investigations are being carried out. The Government Office has many questions in preparation. There are a number of proposals that lead to regulatory changes. But there is, of course, a need for further action on this front.
i-2168165010e3b43e-332	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats did not answer my question as to why, in the spring of 2014, when many of these proposals were delivered to the Swedish Parliament, they voted against them, but now, a few years later, suddenly appeared in the Chamber with the same or almost identical proposals. In fact, the Swedish people deserve to know why you now suddenly stand for something that you were against and voted down during the last parliamentary term but that could have made planning processes in Sweden faster. I would also like to receive a response from the Social Democrats on the report of the Council of Finance Policy, in particular on interest rebates, which, if we are to use a socialist perspective, benefit the absolutely richest or those who already have housing in Sweden. Why do you not want to review the interest rebates, even though they are the most favourable across the EU and despite the fact that the Financial Policy Council's report shows that the interest rebates increase prices in the Swedish housing market and that this would be good to counteract the boom we have now and cool it down in a good and sensible way? Why are you opposed to a reduction in interest rates? Why did you not want to implement these proposals in 2014?
i-2168165010e3b43e-335	Mr President, I would like to I got two questions from Robert Hannah. One is about why we did not take part in the proposal that is now in the bill and the other is about why we do not want to reduce interest rebates. The answer to the first question is, of course, that we are in a new situation with regard to the housing shortage. We see that there is a need for all kinds of proposals. The second question concerned the deduction of interest. It's not really easy. There are problems with the interest deduction. A reduction would make it even more difficult for the most difficult groups to enter the housing market. There are distribution policy aspects that are not so easy to solve.
i-2168165010e3b43e-337	Mr President, I would like to The answer was that it is a new situation with regard to the housing shortage in Sweden. Of course, it has been made more difficult, and all the reports show that it has been made more difficult. It is for this reason that the Liberals have developed a completely new housing policy that was voted through at our last country meeting. There we simply reviewed and introduced a different approach to housing policy. But the housing shortage in Sweden also existed before the government came to power. Do the Social Democrats mean that there was no housing shortage until the Social Democrats came to power? In that case, there were no problems to solve before. The criticism that you used to have that we did not build enough during our term of office is then not true. For me, as a Liberal and an Alliance representative, it sounds rather hypocritical that, when there was already a rather large housing shortage in the previous mandates, you chose to vote down those proposals even though they were needed, that the market demanded them, that the construction companies thought they were needed and that municipal representatives thought they were important. Now that you are in power yourself, you suddenly feel that these are important changes and that this is a new situation. We have had a housing shortage in Sweden for a very long time. Of course, it is a major housing shortage that Boverket points to. I want answers to the question. Do the Social Democrats believe that the deficit that existed in Swedish housing policy was not large enough during the time of the Alliance and that it has come during the Social Democratic period? The second question concerned the interest rebates. Of course, it can be seen that a reduction in interest rebates will affect some weaker households. But it is possible to formulate the interest rebates by, for example, lowering the ceilings, as proposed by the Liberals, so that it helps the weaker households much more than those who have very high loans. I can agree that people who take extremely high loans should perhaps be able to bear their own costs in a completely different way. But the interest rebates need to be reviewed. This is what the Council of Finance Ministers and most experts say.
i-2168165010e3b43e-343	Mr President, I would like to Robert Hannah makes it sound like their proposals when they were in government would have solved all the problems in the housing market. They didn't. We can see that when we take office, we have built as much as we can. Housing companies feel that they could have built more if they only had staff. Rule changes are good, but that's not what solves the problem. As regards the reduction in interest rebates, there are still problems with the new ones entering the housing market. The experts do not agree on the impact of the distribution policy. Of course it is a discussion we must have. But it is not a simple matter to solve.
i-2168165010e3b43e-345	Mr President, I would like to The committee supports the Government's proposal for amendments to the Planning and Construction Act. These are changes aimed at making the planning process more efficient. Municipalities will now be able to request a planning statement from the County Administrative Board. More plans that are not of principle or otherwise of greater importance should be adopted by the municipal board or building committee. The legislative amendments also exempt additional measures from the requirement of building permits. The proposal proposes a series of measures exempt from the requirement for building permits. I could line them up, but I choose not to. I would like to make a small correction and a small addition so that there is no confusion after Robert Hannahs's speech here earlier. Robert Hannah says that the start-up statement is now being removed from the Planning and Construction Act. It's not. The government does not propose any such change, nor does the committee reject that motion. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report. I could continue, but I would like to give the floor to the next Minister for Housing, Peter Eriksson.
i-2168165010e3b43e-349	Mr President, I would like to I have listened to the debate. I am quite happy to be involved in the debate on housing policy right now. The Centre Party and the Liberals have said that it is not possible to live in a forecast or in a plan process. I can say that it is possible to live in housing. Today, we are building homes at a completely different pace from what was done in the past. We have built far too little housing in Sweden for far too long. Compared to demographic trends, we should have realised this already in the 1990s. In all the years of this century, we have built far too little to cope with demographic change. It is not only that we have more people who have come to Sweden, but we have also given birth to more children. All in all, there has been a growing need year after year. When I took office almost exactly a year ago today, the discussion was still such that it is not possible to build in Sweden. We can't do it. The Swedish construction industry is not able to build. The rules are way too complicated. There's a thousand and a problem. How will you manage this in the government? That's how the discussion was, and that's only a year ago. Today, the situation is quite different. Today there are construction cranes in almost every city in Sweden. We are building at a rate that we have not seen since the days of the million-dollar programme. The forecast from Boverket for today – if we are going to talk about forecasts – is that this year it is planned to start the construction of 72 000 apartments in Sweden. During the previous government, construction was on average 20 000 to 25 000 a year. That's the difference that we have. There's a huge difference. Today we are finally at a pace that corresponds to population growth. It's crucial. The lack of housing that we have had for a long time and that has grown leads in turn to a lot of economic problems for Sweden. As a result, prices are pulling away and young people cannot afford to get a place to live. The cost of building is also higher because profits can also pull away. If we are to tackle all the problems surrounding taxes, regulations and everything, we must nevertheless fundamentally try to start by getting to grips with building more. That has been the basic problem. The current government and not least the municipal executives around Sweden are making sure that things are actually happening now. The big difference and what makes us build more today than before is that the state and the government point with their whole hands. We invest money in the budget on a large scale. We are changing the regulations and saying that we must now build. Officials and politicians in the municipalities also realise that it is now necessary to build. They develop detailed plans and land and ensure that there are good opportunities for developers and construction companies to start operations. It makes a huge difference. Now there are some who say that it is only because of the boom that we are building more. Oh, please! Look at the last 17 years that have been since the turn of the century. We've had a boom quite a few times. We have had a shortage of housing throughout that period. I am not saying that this only lands on the bourgeois government, which in the past did far too little. It also lands on the red-green parties, who did not realise in time that much more action was needed to resolve and change this. If you look at our budgets and our actions in Parliament, you can see that we have done far too little; just realise that that is the case. And that applies to all parties. The previous government did plenty of investigations, but in practice very little happened in reality. Now we have a bill here today, but it is only a small part of the government's housing policy. The 22-point programme that I have been involved in developing is now being fully implemented. This is implemented by presenting new guidelines and directives to the county administrative boards. We're making new demands on Boverket. We produce investigations that come up with proposals that we will implement in the Riksdag. Some things are also directly implemented by the government. It is therefore a small part that comes to Parliament, but what we are discussing today comes to Parliament. It concerns some important areas. One area is that we are producing some new exemptions from building permits. This applies to balconies, caged languages and other things for one- and two-family dwellings. It is a matter of facades, paint and some such things for houses with several apartments. This change is not a revolution; I agree. But in a situation where we have not only a shortage of labour in industry, but also a shortage of administrators in municipalities and a shortage of people on county boards, it is important that we prioritise. Then it is quite important that we try to remove unnecessary things that should be kept and handled in the municipalities. Simplifying this and removing some unnecessary rules and decisions from the municipalities is crucial for them to be able to devote themselves to what is important: to ensure that we get new housing and to make decisions about it. That is what the municipalities should do instead of doing things that people can do for themselves. Another issue concerns the role of county boards and municipalities in this work. It is now a matter of getting a change in the planning process as a whole. Part of the bill and the report now under discussion is that municipalities can delegate more tasks. Then you do not have to bring everything to the municipal council, and then you make things easier by shortening the times. Another part concerns the role of county boards. I would like to say that a major change is on the way. We have now, for the first time, issued directives on the part of the state. It has not happened before, even under the previous government, that instructions have been given that county boards should give priority to housing construction. It's an important change. With the decision taken here in the Riksdag, the county administrative boards will have to be able to give answers when the municipalities want a planning decision. It's another part of the same thing. The purpose of these and a number of more things that we are now changing is for the county boards to come in earlier. You should not go on in the municipalities for several years and plan, and then it ends with the county board saying no. Instead, the County Administrative Board should come in early and cooperate with the municipalities to get a detailed plan ready without it ending in a no. When cooperation between municipalities and the county administrative board works, it is said at an early stage that something might not have been right and that it might violate rules that cause problems later on. Then the County Administrative Board proposes in such cooperation that you do it in a different way, and so you agree on it. Then they build without this leading to unnecessary and long delays. In the cooperation, the county boards will also have to check with other authorities if they have any objections. If the municipality receives a notification in advance or planning notice that this is not the case, then this is the case. There's also a difference. We are doing it now in a lot of ways. For example, we are reviewing the entire Boverket regulations for construction. It is a huge project that has not been done before in modern times. It is one of the state's really big investigations, and it will take three years and cost 30 million. But there is also a huge amount of rules to be reviewed and simplified. To the bourgeois parties, I can say that we are launching simplification processes that you do not even seem to have thought of before. They are much larger and more extensive than just looking at some of the details that you are exercising in the report. I think that you could be interested in a little more, because there are probably things here that you could be involved in influencing a little more if you were more active in the debate.
i-2168165010e3b43e-371	Mr President, I would like to I'll say two things about activity. It is one thing to say that you are active and another to be active. I note once again that the Minister of Housing calls it activity when he has made a turn and given up the former resistance of the Green Party to really everything that makes it easier to build and live in Sweden. When he agrees to alliance proposals a number of years too late, it should then be called an active housing policy. I can react a little to it, especially as, as we noted here earlier, no government in modern times has delivered so few proposals to make it easier to build in Sweden as this government – despite the worst housing crisis in 50 years. The second thing I want to say is that on a number of occasions the Minister for Housing has said that he wants to build a new large city in Sweden. It is one of those proposals that one might have expected to hear from the Minister of Culture and then led a little indulgence to. But when the Minister of Housing says something like that, it must be assumed that he also means it. Then the question comes: Where is this city going to be? It must not be near any watercourse at all. It puts a stop to the beach protection regulations. Nor should a road be built there, because it puts an end to noise regulations. The city must also not be within the 70% of Sweden covered by one or more national interests. Again, where would this new city be built? No, Mr President, what we really need is to make it easier to expand the existing cities in Sweden. We can have a long debate on that, but I will return to the first question. It is one thing to say that it is in favour of an active housing policy and another thing to do so. Why do you deliver so few suggestions?
i-2168165010e3b43e-376	Mr President, I would like to We deliver housing. That was the problem from the ground up. I think you've misunderstood the whole situation. You have for a long time believed that it is enough to talk about regulatory changes and simplifications, and then the market will solve all the problems. It's not like that. The housing market is a much more complicated story. Political action is needed in order for something to happen in the market. We can only look at such a simple thing as the fact that the plan monopoly is in the hands of the municipalities. Another thing is that a large part of the housing market is made up of commons. It is a lot about political action. The regulations are largely governed by politics, and not only by Boverket's building regulations, decisions and detailed plans. It is also about the entire tax area, which has a huge impact. What I see is that the Moderates have thought it would be enough for us to back off, and then everything will be fine. But it does not, because this is not such a market. Political commitment is required, and you have missed it all the time. You haven't been interested. It's kind of like it's in some moderate-controlled municipalities outside Stockholm: You're happy if you don't have to build, because you have it pretty good as it is.
i-2168165010e3b43e-380	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt that there is a need for a wide range of measures in the field of regulatory simplification, the area of financing and one with the other. But the government is still not delivering any proposals at all. Those who have sat down in the gallery are Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson and his predecessor Mehmet Kaplan who never realized that they are responsible for this and thus should not only be general commentators in housing policy, but should actually do what they are paid for, i.e. deliver proposals. Once you deliver some proposals, that is what they said no to a number of years ago. It is gratifying that much is now being built in Sweden, but it is still not being built enough. The fact that it is being built now is the result of the simplification journey launched by the Alliance. Then it was not enough, and we need to get much better, but you have not delivered a single proposal at all during this parliamentary term that has increased the number of homes being built in Sweden. The only thing you've come up with is building a new city. Had it not been for such a serious matter, one could have been laughing at it. I now see that the Minister's own party friends sit here and wriggle at the statement that we are going to build a new city in Sweden. I can understand Emma Hult and the others who find this embarrassing. When will you start delivering your own radical and powerful proposals to get more housing in Sweden? The government still has a lot of sacred cows when it comes to housing policy. We cannot afford that, my friends and Mr President. Sweden can't afford that. Start delivering suggestions! It is not acceptable that during the worst housing crisis in 50 years, no government in modern times has delivered as few proposals for more housing as this government. It's not sustainable.
i-2168165010e3b43e-384	Mr President, I would like to I think what Mats Green here confirms is that he does not understand what is happening right now and how it is that we are actually building housing at a rate that we have not seen since the million-dollar programme. There is no explanation for that in what you say, because the few measures that you took under the previous governments can reasonably have nothing to do with this. This has to do with political commitment from the municipalities and the state. We are showing this by putting money into the state budget for municipal bonuses, investment aid and a number of other things, and we are showing politically that we are now serious by telling the county boards and municipalities that they must have a different role and take greater responsibility for production. A new town is talking about Mats Green. Yes, we have appointed a negotiating officer who is now discussing major collective exploitations with the municipalities. You can shake your head if you do not want to make larger overall exploitations and you do not understand that there are a number of smaller municipalities that may find it difficult to cope with the major infrastructure investments that are required when you want and have the opportunity to make bigger investments around, for example, a railway station that is under-utilised, a metro location on the outskirts of Stockholm or other infrastructure investments that are under way. The result will be presented quite soon by this negotiator. It will produce good results in the form of new housing in Sweden, not only through a long-term process of 10 or 20 years, but through a process that will start very soon.
i-2168165010e3b43e-387	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to point out that I made a mistake in my speech. I said "start" but of course I meant "planning" clearance. Then I would like to congratulate Peter Eriksson for a year as Minister of Housing. In one year, the Minister for Housing seems to think that he has solved the entire housing crisis in Sweden and that this has led to a record amount of housing construction. It sounds like a superman acting, but it's actually not true. This autumn we have had a red-green government for three years – a year with an alliance budget and two years with Mehmet Kaplan as Minister of Housing who did nothing at all. Nevertheless, I can praise the current Minister for Housing for having started a number of different regulatory simplification work that is good. But to believe that it is the work of the current government that has led to an improvement in the housing situation in Sweden is like thinking that you can travel to the moon without making a space flight. The initiative that the government has actually made is that it has come to Parliament with a number of small regulatory simplifications. The biggest investment is 6 billion in construction subsidies. These subsidies were opposed by the Green Party during the last parliamentary term. What the Green Party was also opposed during the last parliamentary term were all kinds of regulatory simplifications. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Housing: does the Green Party regret, and do you take responsibility for, that in spring 2014 you said no and voted down the proposals that we are voting in favour of today? Does the Minister of Housing think it was a mistake, or was there no housing shortage then? I would also like to refer to the report by the Council of Finance Ministers on interest rebates on the rental market. I would particularly like to ask about the interest rebates, because here too, it is also flip-floping on the part of the Green Party. In the past, they were used to lower interest rebates, but now they are not. The Council of Finance Ministers believes that this would be good for preventing price increases in Sweden. Göran Persson thinks so, and almost every expert in Sweden thinks so. My question to the Minister for Housing is therefore: are you willing to review the interest rebates? Will you do that?
i-2168165010e3b43e-394	Mr President, I would like to I can inform Robert Hannah that the Green Party is still in favour of phasing out the interest rebates in Sweden. We have wanted to come up with a long-term solution that makes this gradual so that individuals do not suffer from it to an extent that plays a major role. It would be good for Sweden and for Swedish economics in many ways. It was a pity that Robert Hannahs's Liberal Party dropped out of the talks we had where this could have been resolved. Robert Hannah regrets you dropped those calls? We need cross-block solutions on issues such as property tax, interest rebates, capital gains taxation and such. If we are to be able to deal with this, we cannot do it in one way so that one parliamentary term goes one way and the other in another. People need to know what's going on. Wasn't it rather unfortunate that you chose to drop out of these calls? Would it not have been better if we had tried to find a solution even with regard to taxes? I must admit that we cannot resolve these issues ourselves in a minority government. We need a broader agreement. The other issues relating to regulatory simplification, to shorten planning processes and to have a more effective planning process can be dealt with ourselves, because there we know that we are supported on a great deal of issues also by the opposition. I also think that we should have done more on behalf of the Green Party earlier. Shouldn't you from the then government have done more before? I was in the election movement in 2010 and on several other occasions, and I cannot remember that the housing issue was a major issue for either the bourgeois or the red-green parties.
i-2168165010e3b43e-398	Mr President, I would like to Liberals have re-evaluated their housing policy because we felt that it was not enough to resolve the housing crisis. But I believe that the Green Party needs to take a particularly great responsibility in this matter, because the Green Party has voted against many of the regulatory simplifications that are now being promoted. When it comes to the talks that we dropped out, the Liberals and the Alliance would think it was good if we had agreed, but if it had been Göran Persson sitting on the other side of the table and talking to us instead of Magdalena Andersson and Peter Eriksson, we would probably have agreed. The problem is that we cannot agree on proposals that involve subsidies that are not long enough and that do not provide reforms that actually solve the crisis in the housing market. We did not consider the government willing to do so. The government did not want to sit down and talk to the Alliance individually either, but the Left Party would be involved in the talks. It's not serious, because there's no chance in the world – and I think the Left Party agrees – that the Left Party and the Alliance could agree on a common housing policy. On the part of the government, it was a major shortcoming in acting and actually wanting to come to an agreement. The Liberals and the Alliance cannot accept construction subsidies which the market itself does not want, which the market thinks are unnecessary. We certainly want to see radical reforms in the housing market. But it wouldn't lead to that. That's why we chose to leave the housing calls. The fact that so many homes are being built in Sweden today is because we have a boom – it is important to say so. This is also due to the fact that a major deficiency has been built up. However, you cannot keep coming to this House with proposals that are pitiful and then say: we have solved the housing crisis in Sweden. It is the market that can solve the housing crisis in Sweden. We must move towards regulation in which we allow the market to take over most of the responsibility. And we have to make sure that we reduce the interest rebates. We also need to start listening to Göran Persson's views. They are, in fact, very much like the Liberals in this respect. I would like to know why you do not listen to the views of the Council of Finance Policy.
i-2168165010e3b43e-405	Mr President, I would like to It might as well be said that the Council of Finance Ministers is listening to the views of the Green Party, if we are talking about interest rebates. We wanted to, but you dropped those calls, Robert Hannah. I think it's good that you blush a little when we talk about this. It wasn't a good bet from you. It would have been good for Sweden if we had got a broad deal. And it was possible in that situation. I'm sorry it didn't make any more of it. As far as taxes are concerned, my experience as a politician – I have been with them for quite some time – tells me that it will be difficult to do so now, the closer we get to the elections. It's sensitive. There are links between the parties and different groups in the housing market. I would at least like to make a recommendation to the opposition parties and also to the government parties here. Be open to a new discussion on solving tax issues with regard to housing! It will be necessary, if nothing else after the election. Then new such conversations will be needed.
i-2168165010e3b43e-408	Mr President, I would like to I noted that the Minister of Housing rallied a great deal over the fact that the alliance parties had not been far-reaching enough in their follow-up and reservations regarding this particular bill entitled More steps for a more effective planning and construction team. It's a title that raises hopes. Unfortunately, the most bold proposal we are going to take a position on here is that the planning statement from the County Administrative Board is something that one should be able to demand. In its goodness, the government has gone halfway and regained one of its previous fundamental positions that the municipal council should not be able to delegate proposals except detailed plans to the building committee or the municipal board. That's beautiful. Otherwise, I think the current housing minister sounds quite much like the former housing minister Stefan Attefall. He often and gladly spoke of the appointment of various investigations and missions. I recall that former spokespersons of housing policy from the Social Democrats in particular boasted that only investigations were set up and that no proposals were made. 110 proposals ended up at Parliament's table for Parliament to take a position on. I do not think that the environmental partisan housing ministers have come close to this level. In this way, I do not think it is particularly good to beat the chest for the development of housing policy that we have seen. I brought with me forecasts that show that housing construction started to increase as early as 2012. It continued in 2013 and 2014. The level we are seeing today is the result of decisions taken in the past. It is definitely not the result of the government scattering building bonuses over municipalities that already earn well with money and then add up in their own results at the financial statements.
i-2168165010e3b43e-412	Mr President, I would like to We are now adding a number of measures to the list. Ola Johansson discussed before whether there are further measures. Yes, there is a wide range of additional measures. We look, among other things, at being able to strengthen the master plans properly, in some cases even building directly on the master plans. It makes a difference. We have commissioned Boverket to review whether more measures can be taken without building permits. This applies, for example, to installing solar panels, solar cells, on buildings without building permits. This also applies to building patios. We look at a number of such things. I think that would be good. This exempts additional unnecessary rules and problems for people, so that the administrators of the municipalities can devote themselves to what is important. Ola Johansson brought up the building bonus to the municipalities. I know the Center didn't like it. But to be honest, it is something that has had quite a good effect. When the Red-Green Government took office, less than half of Sweden's municipalities had a housing supply plan at all, despite the fact that there has long been a law that states that the municipalities should have it. A counter condition for municipalities to benefit from the building bonus has been that they should have a housing supply plan. This in itself has helped to build more in Sweden, to develop more detailed plans and to get the developers and the public goods started to a greater extent than before. It has therefore been an effective instrument.
i-2168165010e3b43e-416	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Housing is quick to evaluate his own actions. The build bonus rewards measures already taken. The construction bonus has now been awarded and came late to the municipalities. We've let RUT find out what benefit the build bonuses have done. What they have done is that they have increased already good results in the growth municipalities, which automatically have these housing supply programmes and overview plans. So this has done no good in any way until today's date. It would be nice if the Minister of Housing admitted it. What we see is a split in Sweden. The large housing building takes place in places where there is a high ability to pay, in the fastest growing regions – we can call them growth regions – where they had been built anyway. The Center Party would like to achieve a more even housing structure across the country. We can see that there are still obstacles. Beach protection is such an obstacle. In many places, national interests may be. A review, a regulatory simplification, would allow many municipalities to use their most attractive locations to attract investment in housing. Another problem, which also belongs to the economic area, is the impairment requirement of many municipal housing companies. This means that housing investments cannot be made because the market and banks have not yet understood that there is such a need. It would be nice if Peter Eriksson could talk to his Minister for Finance about the possibility of making reliefs with regard to the municipal write-down requirements. I welcome the announcement that the outline plans will be strengthened. I would like to see and demand on the table a proposal that also gives developers the possibility of a private right of initiative. You should not have to rely on municipalities' discretion or resource availability when it comes to having a plan drawn up. This would mean a greater freedom and opportunity for private developers to carry out a planning process.
i-2168165010e3b43e-422	Mr President, I would like to Maybe that's where the shoe squeezed. The problem was not that it is not being built, but that it is being built in the wrong place. I guess I can agree with that to some extent. It would be better if we could build all over Sweden. But to conclude that too much is being built in the big cities is wrong in my opinion. There is a lot of demand, and we need to ensure that we build up with it. We should not try to create a system where less is built where there is demand and the labour market and more where there is no one. You have to try to do both. I agree that more measures are needed to support construction in smaller towns. For example, I have discussed several times the depreciation rules, which we are talking about now. I think they are often interpreted incorrectly. We have also set up an investigation that looks at whether the state should go in and take responsibility for top loans and credit in areas that the banks have abandoned. One problem that we see in many places today is that, when banks no longer have local offices, they do not dare to take a stand and give loans, although they are never such good places to build and there is good reason to do so. Here we find ourselves in a dilemma that we have to deal with and solve.
i-2168165010e3b43e-426	Mr President, I would like to The current housing minister said that the previous government did the most investigations, but very little in reality. How nice to get to a desk full of finished investigations with a lot of suggestions and then say that you do a lot! It sounds great that you are doing things, but those who are familiar know whose policy you are now implementing. Nor can I fail to reflect on the housing talks that the Minister of Housing came into late. Now he's making a big deal out of the 22-point program. Again, how good to invite the Alliance and let us develop politics for you! That's really what those conversations were about. My question to the Government is: the political commitment that you are talking about yourself, your own proposals and the new policy, what is it really? Although it is a good thing to take part in today's debate, I think that this proposal is nothing to beat the chest for. We could have done this a very long time ago. Much more could also have been done if you had talked to the expert authority Boverket earlier. What does political commitment mean? Is it 5 billion straight into the developer's pockets – 5 billion they don't even want?
i-2168165010e3b43e-430	Mr President, I would like to You had government power for eight years, and when you look back afterwards, you see that there wasn't much going on when it came to housing. There were problems when you took office and there were even bigger problems when you resigned. When the next government then makes changes and has started construction, it says: It was thanks to us. You should be glad that we have done as many investigations as we did not, but we put them on the table so that you could carry them out. What kind of reasoning is that? I think it sounds very strange. I agree that Attefall initiated some good investigations. I like the whole idea of Attefallshusen. That was probably the most concrete thing that happened during the last parliamentary term. Unfortunately, it has not given so many homes, but I think it was a good idea. I like that you increase the degree of freedom for people and give people the opportunity to do things without a lot of hassle. The difference is that we are now developing detailed plans and land to build on around Sweden. The construction industry is in full swing. When we ask the construction industry what obstacles there are, there is an increasing proportion saying that there are no obstacles today. But the obstacle to the vast majority is a shortage of labour, not a lack of rules or money. It is a shortage of labour that is the major problem. That is the difference with the last parliamentary term, because then the whole industry felt that there were a lot of other problems that did not get off the ground with the construction. However, these obstacles do not exist today, and this is probably due above all to political commitment that has started construction.
i-2168165010e3b43e-435	Mr President, I would like to Those obstacles are not left because we listened to the industry and we removed these obstacles. That's why it's changed. But for you in the Green Party, you had to move from a housing shortage to a housing crisis. You had to get the ministerial post yourself in order to wake up and understand that there is a need for substantial changes here. As was said earlier in the debate, the major changes are economic. These are the conditions that need to be changed in order for there to really be a change. Then it is not a question of subsidies. You have a rather large budget line that you can use in an incredibly much better way. I would therefore like to ask: what are the economic conditions? What do you really want to do to bring about that change? If we're going to resume any conversations, the government must first know what you want. That was the biggest problem in the last round. You didn't know what you wanted at all. Then you can talk about the issue of labour. You set up an investigation to suggest what to do. Well, tearing up lex Laval doesn't make things any better. It does not improve by counteracting the fact that more people have an opportunity to help. The main problem is labour shortages, and now it is even more difficult for construction companies to find foreign workers. Yeah, it's supposed to be good rules for everyone. It's the basic thing for us, but you make it a lot harder. I do not see the need for an investigation to solve the labour problem, but for more people to come and work, greater transparency is needed.
i-2168165010e3b43e-442	Mr President, I would like to I think Caroline Szyber makes it all too easy. I have been involved in introducing the labour immigration rules and migration rules that we have. They are basically very good, and they have contributed to both the construction industry and the IT industry. You now have the opportunity to hire people from outside in a way that you couldn't do before. It's very important. If we go back to the situation that prevailed during the last parliamentary term, imagine that the market solves everything, withdraws all the efforts that this government is making, then it will be dangerous. It will help to stop the production of housing again, and that would be very unfortunate. We need an active and committed housing policy for a long time. Then it is not enough to think that the market solves everything. A great deal of measures will be needed, including measures that contribute to rental levels in new homes that people can afford to demand. If we cannot do that, I am afraid that there will be a rapid end to the increase in housing production. My advice to Caroline Szyber is: review this one more time! Many young people and newcomers in Sweden need help getting affordable housing. If you remove these subsidies, there is a risk that there will be a halt to new production, and I think that would be very unfortunate.
i-CintgSrxRcs5RSpr2Vif9Z	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Peter Eriksson, for participating in the debate today! We have a major housing crisis which is clearly caused by and linked to migration policy. It was created by the red-greens together with the Alliance for quite a number of years. In order to try afterwards to resolve the housing crisis, the government has now presented, and will present, a series of structural changes. As we see it, they will create problems for social planning and the long-term economy. They will create more unsafe residential areas in Sweden. Time-limited building permits have been implemented, which we believe will create more exclusion areas. Derogations will be proposed for building permits in temporary housing, which circumvent the public interest. At the latest today, delegation rights were extended for the adoption of detailed plans, in which the interests of the public are also very much ignored. The municipalities are now being forced into short-term solutions for the development of housing. Many municipalities also give priority in the housing queue to newly arrived immigrants. This is a consequence of the situation that we are seeing in Sweden today. To solve a problem, you are creating a new one, such as the fixed-term building permits that will create more exclusion areas. My question is this: why are we going into structural changes that destroy long-term social planning rather than looking at the major future issues of regional housing planning, increased competition among construction companies, construction credits for construction companies, a safer police presence in exclusion areas and the abolition of the EBO law?
i-2168165010e3b43e-452	Mr President, I would like to The reason for the measures we are now proposing is that we think there is a need for more housing. Many people need housing. We have a housing shortage. We have taken a step towards moving, at least temporarily and for the time being, from a housing crisis to a serious housing shortage. The crisis in the past was that we did not produce housing as a growing population. Now we do, and that is a significant difference from before. We need to do this for a long time to solve the problem completely, and if we manage to continue to produce housing at a good pace, we will deal with it all. This will help Sweden feel better and that we can handle the Swedish economy better. As an example, we now see that when the construction industry invests a great deal of money, it contributes strongly to the Swedish economy. It contributes to the demand for labour, and it helps to bring up employment and reduce unemployment. The construction industry's increased activity is currently one of the strong engines for growth in the Swedish economy.
i-2168165010e3b43e-455	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Peter Eriksson, for your answer! I would also like answers when the government comes with the more long-term changes and the conditions for creating more housing in Sweden. This applies, for example, to regional housing planning. We had a committee that made very comprehensive proposals in this area. When does the government address these issues? When will we see more proposals to increase competition between construction companies and increase construction credits, something that the government has also talked about? When will the government address the most urgent issues regarding the EBO law? It has led to the creation of very high overcrowded housing in Sweden, which in the long run gives problems if you as a youth want to study and be able to cope with your studies when living at home. Maybe you don't want to be at home in the first place, but you're pulling out of town, which creates other problems. The EBO Act has very much contributed to many problems in Sweden today. When does the government address this issue? When will we see a safer police presence in the suburbs? When are you going to work on these important issues? From today's debate, I can see that the Alliance does not want to talk to the government and that the government does not want to talk to the Swedish Democrats. The situation in housing policy is very locked. This is very important and concerns several policy areas. I have said it before, and I say it again: the Swedish Democrats are stretching their hand to conduct political talks with the government on this. The hand is stretched out, and you are welcome to take it and discuss these important issues.
i-2168165010e3b43e-458	Mr President, I would like to I think it will be a little strange if we say that we are reaching out and at the same time saying that we are against almost all the measures that have been put forward to try to increase the production of housing. We're taking structural action. The question of the role of county boards, which I raised in my main speech, seems to me to be a very central and important structural factor. Getting municipalities and county boards to interact more and work together on housing supply plans at a pace that meets the needs is quite different from sitting in each one and waiting for the other to act. Sometimes you say no and sometimes yes, and then you start over. Getting the state and municipalities to cooperate is a new way of looking at the role of county boards. I think this is an important and central structural issue, which we are addressing, among other things, the proposal we are discussing now and the report on which you are to vote this afternoon. There are also a number of other things. We are reviewing all of Boverket's building regulations, which is also a central issue of structural importance. We will also support the work of bringing in more construction companies and increasing competition from other countries. We do this by, for example, translating Boverket's building regulations into other languages, something we discussed just now. This has not been done before, and it will make it much easier for other countries' construction companies to come to Sweden.
i-2168165010e3b43e-462	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has very well-developed welfare in many areas. We pay a relatively high tax but at the same time get a lot out. All children are entitled to both school and preschool. If we get sick, we have access to good medical care. As we get older, there is access to both home care and care for the elderly, for example. One area where there is much to do, however, is dental care. It is not worthy of a welfare society like ours that not everyone who needs to go to the dentist can afford to do so. The current dental insurance is based on the fact that, in addition to a dental check of a few hundred crowns, you do not receive any subsidy at all on costs up to 3 000 crowns. For costs between 3 000 and 15 000 you pay 50 %, and for costs over 15 000 you pay 15 %. But if you don't have 3,000 over, that's a lot of money. Since the entry into office of the Socialist-led government, some improvements have been made. The free dental care for children and young people is now gradually being expanded, and in 2019 everyone up to the age of 23 will have free dental care. Another group in need of regular contact with dental care is the elderly. The government has therefore doubled the general dental allowance for the group 65-74 years from 150 to 300 SEK per year. With this increase, the group will end up at the same level as the 75-year-old group. These are two important steps in the right direction, but apart from the group up to 23 years, they are only marginal improvements. Therefore, it feels good that the Social Democratic Congress, which decides what we as elected Social Democratic politicians should work for, stated the following:.It is expensive to go to the dentist and many adults simply don't. It risks hitting both health and wallet when you finally have to go. Today's system needs to be investigated in order to approach the healthcare system in order to promote regular and preventive dental care. Steps should be taken during the next term of office for a more equal dental care where dental health is not a class issue. In other words, everyone must have the money to go to the dentist when you need it. Mr President, I would like to The Social Affairs Committee's report, which we are now discussing, is primarily about providing the Social Insurance Agency with better tools to implement measures to counteract the incorrect payment of state dental aid. A united committee supports these proposals. In order to give us as patients better opportunities to get information about what support we can get in the current system, the Government believes that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency should update its information about all currently available support, including those funded and administered by the county councils. In order to contribute to a more equal dental care and dental health, targeted interventions may also be needed against groups that currently do not visit dental care. In order to further strengthen the position of patients, the Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency has been tasked with establishing a price comparison service, which makes it possible to see which dentists are the lowest in price. This can, in the long term, contribute to improved competition. Finally, the government makes the assessment that it needs to be investigated what needs to be done in order for dental health to become more equal. Mr President, I would like to By these measures, the government believes that a number of previous announcements can be regarded as completed and that the general exercise that pointed to the need for information efforts can be rejected. The committee agrees with these proposals. Finally, Mr President, it is clear that a dental reform worthy of the name – a reform that will allow everyone who needs it to really afford to go to the dentist – will cost a great deal. It also makes teeth a part of the body, which many feel would be the right thing to do. Then it is not good enough, as the five bourgeois parties did during their reign, to erode welfare by major tax cuts, tax cuts which they are now proposing to continue. Are we not prepared to pay to develop welfare and, in this case, dental care is of course not possible to implement. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-2168165010e3b43e-473	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Foreign Affairs Committee's report 2016/ 17:U15 on human rights. It is an important report. This can be seen not least by the fact that there are about 120 requests from the general exercise period during the parliamentary year 2015/ 16 and the current parliamentary year. The principles are touched upon and dealt with in the report, Mr President. I would like to start by saying that, of course, I support all moderate reservations, but for time winning, I only ask for reservation 1. The report is comprehensive and deals with the situation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Swedish foreign policy. Unfortunately, I will not be able to deal with all the areas dealt with in the report. It is not because of lack of interest but because of respect for the time of this House, Mr President. The work of promoting democracy, human rights, the principles of the rule of law and sustainable development permeates Swedish foreign policy for a long time. We Moderates believe that Sweden should be a clear voice in the world for human rights. We also believe that Sweden should act bilaterally and multilaterally through the EU, Nordic cooperation, the UN, the Council of Europe, the OSSE and other international partners. The government states in its letter that it wants to take a holistic approach to human rights throughout foreign policy. Unfortunately, however, I have to say that it is not clear in the letter how the government wants to work to promote human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Nor is it clear how it wants to work. It is not clear how the government wants to follow up what it should do. Unfortunately, often it is obscurely said what is obscurely thought. I hope that is not the case here. I hope that the government representatives here can give more details so that we can get an idea of what the government wants to do. Mr President, I would like to Human rights are far too important to promise big and to keep thin. It is important, when it comes to human rights and how the government wants to work, that there is actually something for us here in Parliament to take a position on. It is about taking a position on how it should be done and, of course, followed up. The care and defence of human rights is an integral and central part of Swedish foreign policy and will remain so, in our opinion. Sweden must continue its commitment. Here I want to raise the EU in particular, which is the player in which we work. Within the EU, there is a special representative for human rights. There is also the High Representative for Foreign Affairs. These are important tools in our work. In this context, I would like to mention something that is of great importance for human rights. This is about the Eastern Partnership. I've lifted it up before, and I'm doing it again. It is a very concrete and good example of how the EU can work to support human rights. The initiative came during the previous term of office. It was an initiative by Sweden and Poland. The aim was to strengthen human rights in the former Soviet states and push for human rights and contacts between the EU and other Eastern countries. This work has proved successful. That is why it is important to continue to work and to support democracy and economic growth. In countries where human rights are respected, there is a market economy. It is a market economy that develops and creates growth and prosperity for its citizens, which is a basis for human rights. We in Sweden can do much to support the development of a more market economy and more economic growth. For us Moderates, it is urgent that Sweden's foreign policy and development cooperation reflect our hopes for a world where people can live free, without fear and need. Democracy and respect for political and civil rights are key prerequisites for the realisation of economic, social and cultural rights. I say this because, unfortunately, there are a great many clouds in the sky today when it comes to human rights. There are examples, which terrify, of how human rights go back. In this context, I would like to talk about the importance of country reports on human rights. On 26 April this year, the government published 135 country reports. This is good. But why has it been until 26 April before the Riksdag was able to take part of these and before they became public? We have been asking the current government from the opposition since the 2014 elections: when are the reports coming? I would like to stress that I very much hope that the 135 country reports, which were presented in lumps, are not a one-off event, but that we will receive regular reports, as before. Now is a changing time. It's a time when a lot happens. Human rights are being challenged. Then the government must assume its responsibilities and publish country reports. I promise that I will follow this up in Parliament. When we talk about human rights, we must also include democracy, Mr President. I cannot mention a single country where there is respect for human rights in general and where there is no democracy. I am giving this because in my mission to the OSSE I have participated as an election observer in a large number of countries. I have seen examples of horror, where there is no respect whatsoever for how an election is to be conducted. It is about how a campaign is conducted and how the media works. It is about how electoral lengths are established. It is about the way in which ballot papers are drawn up. It is about the financing of parties. It's about buying votes, it's about corruption. It is also about how the results of the elections are taken into account. We in Sweden must ensure that support is given so that more countries are given the opportunity to apply democracy. It is about more citizens, more people, having the opportunity to vote freely and democratically. A person has a voice, nothing else. Another area I would like to mention is freedom of expression. We have seen that it is reduced year after year. What we have dealt with in our Moderate motion is freedom of expression online. I think this is important. We politicians often talk about freedom of expression in the form of printed media. We must not forget the Internet. In Turkey, for example, additional websites are closed daily, in addition to the hundreds of thousands of websites that have been closed for some year. Unfortunately, Turkey is not the only country that closes websites. There are equally frightening examples of Russia and Belarus, to name a few countries in our vicinity. Freedom of the press should also apply to the Internet, just as everywhere else, and this is an issue in which we, as a nation, can make a difference by lifting up and drumming on the importance of freedom of expression on the Internet too. Another area is equality. Women, men, girls and boys should have the same rights. This is an important, important part. Not only should we talk about women in mediation, we should not just talk about women in politics, but we should also look at what the situation is like for women. I am thinking here of the girls in many countries who may have a statutory right to school. But they cannot complete schooling, for when something happens in the family, such as difficulties in caring for the family, difficulties in caring for younger children or any other – which one of the children leaves school? Yes, it's the girls. It's the daughters. Another problem that affects the slightly older girl or young woman is arranged marriages. This is something that we from the Swedish side must also stand up and pronounce and work to ensure that it does not occur. Mr President, I would like to Divorce from the husband can in many contexts be completely impossible for women to take the initiative. A woman may have to remain in a miserable marriage because she is unable to support herself or to have custody of her children. What can we do about this? Well, we can support the possibility of economic development for women, such as the ability to run businesses, the ability to make money and the ability to own their businesses. There are countries where widows cannot actually own land, businesses or economic resources. What happens to that woman when her husband dies? Either inherit the son or, for example, the husband's brother. This is something that is not acceptable, and there is much we can do. I would also like to refer to the situation of LGBT people. Much about LGBT issues in one country reflects the human rights situation in that country, and so I am very, very surprised and, in fact, concerned about the expression made by the Swedish commentator on this year's Eurovision: the artist is seriously homosexual. What does it say about Swedish human rights? I hope that it does not say anything at all but that it was a lumped statement. However, it is important that we continue to look at what it looks like, not only in Sweden but also in our surrounding world. We all know that LGBT people in Russia are in difficulties. I want to say that every person has the right to his or her own sexual identity and orientation. It is not something that should be oppressed by any state or regime. Out of respect for the time of this House, Mr President, I will end here.
i-2168165010e3b43e-498	Mr President, I would like to Today, as you know, we are debating the government's letters on its priorities for foreign policy on human rights, democracy and the rule of law. As the previous speaker said, this is a subject that engages many with a great many aroused motions, rightly so. I also believe that there is a rather broad consensus here that Sweden should take a leading role in this globally, and that is why I find it a bit sad that the government has not been clearer about what exactly it is you want to do. There are some things that I think are particularly important to raise, and it is about focusing on fundamental rights, not least for people in the least developed countries. We believe that it is extremely important to work so that people themselves can change their life situation for the better. We see how the majority of poor people live, not least in rural areas, without good access to clean water, food and sanitation, and this can be crucial for them to be able to fight to change and improve other human rights for themselves and others. We therefore believe that a central part of this work should be to focus on the right to just a fair standard of living, the right to education and the right to health – that is, fundamental human rights, both under the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and under the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. It is extremely important that Sweden, for example, works to ensure that more countries live up to the entire UN Declaration of Human Rights rather than limiting them in accordance with, for example, the Cairo Declaration, which several Muslim countries have adopted. It is a declaration which, fortunately, is now being examined thanks to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Mr President, I would like to Recurrent general elections are inalienable in well-developed and democratically mature countries. In developed and middle income countries, general elections promote responsibility and legitimacy, among other things. Unfortunately, we have seen how research from some of the world's leading experts in this field has confirmed the image that, on the contrary, several of the least developed countries have problems with electoral movements. There is a negative link between election movements and good governance. Of course, this is problematic. In less developed countries, it is commonplace that the basis of political parties is primarily ethnic rather than ideological, which is obviously completely insane. We also see how voters in the least developed countries have poor access to information, a lack of education and a lack of knowledge of how a state works. In short, it is done to give dishonest and corrupt people a systematic advantage in the political sphere in these countries, with a risk of violence during the election campaigns. This is something that we must limit, not least in order to promote democracy throughout the world. As you know, the Swedish Democrats see democracy as the only way for the least developed countries to achieve development and success. But democracy is so much more than the holding of elections. We heard in a previous speech that there are several horror examples of how elections can be held. In order to ensure a fair process, it is self-evident to us that a checklist should also be drawn up with a minimum of criteria to be met before the international community is called upon to put pressure on a government to conduct general elections. So, before the criteria are met, focus should be on the basic mission to achieve them and focus on the fact that the right choices can actually be made. Similarly, we have seen religious persecution becoming more common. Christians happen to be the most persecuted religious group in the world, and here too I see that the pressure and efforts of the government to pay particular attention to this oppression are worryingly modest. Here, the government can and should do much more and become a much stronger international voice. Mr President, I would like to I welcome the government's declared ambition to promote women's rights and work towards gender equality. But as in so many other cases, they have often fallen on the wrong course. They ignore the important issues and focus instead on symbolic issues that look good on the headlines here in Sweden. We Swedish democrats believe that it is time for the government to actually tackle the really big problems that affect women's everyday lives throughout the world, problems that most people in Sweden can't even understand. We should give women in developing countries the conditions necessary for them to be able to participate in education and to be at the disposal of the labour market at all. Today, many women in developing countries devote much of their time to survival in the form of, for example, water extraction and food security for the family. Girls prefer to stay home from school because of a lack of healthy sanitation or because they are forced to help people, not least their own families, with housework. This prevents girls and women from developing. That is where we need to focus our attention so that these women too can have a good future. Similarly, women in several countries have a particularly vulnerable situation in which they are subjected to sexual abuse and other forms of violence. At the same time, they often have poor access to justice. There are a wide range of examples where women are at risk of honour killing, lynching or public execution because they themselves have been subjected to something as disgusting as rape or because they have had sexual relations outside of marriage. That is totally unacceptable. The government must be clear, not least with the direction it claims to represent. Mr President, I would like to What I also think is extremely important to highlight is that the Convention on the Rights of the Child should have a much greater place in foreign policy. For example, every day 2 000 children die of diarrhea caused by dirty water and poor sanitation. Children are the most vulnerable in wars and during disasters. Children are too easily forgotten when the symbolic issues are once again put in focus instead of the important issues of life and death. We have seen how children become victims of the worst forms of child labour, sexual exploitation, various forms of violence and discrimination, child marriage and genital mutilation. There must be no doubt that a particular focus in Swedish foreign policy should be directed towards preventing the vulnerability of the weakest in society, those who will build on a future healthy society. Mr President, I would like to I would like to endorse reservations 14 and 20. At the same time, I am clear that we support all the SD reservations in the report. I would also like to add that there is much more I would like to mention, but out of respect for the time of this House, I am concluding here.
i-2168165010e3b43e-516	Mr President, I would like to The report, which has emerged, concerns human rights. It is a report which focuses this year on the letter from the government. It is a letter worth reading, and it has led to many motions. Many people believe that we are now dealing with the MR reports that came in an explosive amount just a month ago, but that is not the case because we have not had time for them in our report. There are only the letters and various motions. The basis for human rights was the experience of the Second World War – not to redo but to do right and to ensure that conflicts were not created because of oppression or that people did not feel that they had opportunities or freedoms, but that they resorted to violence. These rights are universal, indivisible and mutually reinforcing. This means that we do not think that they are something that every nation can freely sift among, whether on a cultural, political, religious or otherwise basis. Mr President, I would like to For the eleventh year in a row, we see how freedoms diminish in the world. Transparency International is clear. Human rights and freedoms are being taken back in development. We see populism, more autocratic leaders – oppressors – added to those we know since old. Sweden should be an uncompromising voice for peace, freedom and human rights. That is our position. Therefore, it is of course important to try to focus on a number of areas also when we are working on human rights issues. In a reservation, the Center Party has pointed to questions of follow-up, and we hope that the government will take up those issues even if the reservation is not supported by the House. When freedom thrives, we often see that the rule of law erodes or becomes completely non-existent. The right to a fair trial, freedom from corruption and an independent judiciary is a central basis for democracy and human rights and for preventing and preventing conflicts from arising. Mr President, I would like to Here I would like to make a small digression about the reports that came in April that we have heard. The Minister for Foreign Affairs says that as of 2017, the reports also address democracy and the rule of law – unlike in the past. It's a little interesting. Mr President, I would like to The report on human rights concerning China of 2013 shows the following about the rule of law and the rule of law: There is no free justice system in China because the justice system is under the control of the Communist Party. There is considerable political interference in politically sensitive cases. In the recent report, the title is: "The principles of the rule of law – A principle of good governance". It shows this: a judicial system in China is not independent but subject to the control of the Communist Party. The party's involvement is particularly evident in politically sensitive cases. ..................................................... That could be a whole new position from a government, but it does not sound that way to me, Mr President. Rather, it sounds like a press release has indicated that something is new when it really is not. There is a historical trend in which we point to democracy and the principles of the rule of law as important elements of human rights. If we read the public reports from 2002 onwards, we can see this mirrored. A lot of screaming for a little wool, Mr President. Clarity in foreign policy is, of course, important when it comes to human rights. I would like to emphasise that the Center Party points out in a specific statement, namely universal law. We have chosen not to reserve ourselves on this point this year, but we refer to previous years' positions on the importance of lifting up and developing the ICC, the prerequisite for creating a universal legal order for crimes against humanity, genocide, and ensuring that impunity does not prevail. It is, of course, an important prerequisite for resolving conflicts and building human rights universally. Freedom is increasing. Civil society is a clear proof of this very thing. When oppressors, authoritarian leaders and systems move around, civil society is strangled in different ways. We can see that civil society is being cut in more and more countries. The gentlemen of fear... it's usually gentlemen... pointing to differences as a threat. Anyone who does not share the leader's opinion risks prison or even worse. We can see how gentlemen Maduro, Erdo中an, Putin, Mugabe, Duterte and Kim Jong Un now get more followers globally in different ways. This is, of course, very serious. For us, it is important to stand up and be a clear voice against them. That also applies to the Internet. We have touched on this, also in other contexts, and it is mentioned in a reservation. As freedom increases, Mr President, it is also clear that women and girls are being sacrificed. Women's and girls' rights to their own bodies are under threat in more and more countries. The right to abortion, free and legal abortion, is also strangled. This is an issue in which we in the Center Party think that we must be extremely clear from the Swedish side. Our voice must not be silenced when others do. That is why, Mr President, I would like to support Amendment No 6 in paragraph 4, which concerns precisely that freedom. Freedom is also increasing for LGBTQ people. I would like to underline what has been said earlier about the right to decide for yourself who you want to love and who you want to be. When we receive reports from Russia – Chechnya is part of Russia – about mass graves and that impunity prevails for those who have committed these extremely serious crimes, then we must be clear. No one should hesitate about this. Mr President, I would like to It is high time to act through our embassies, through the EU and through the UN Security Council, in our bilateral contacts and in our human rights reports so that no one doubts that Sweden is prepared to speak when others are silenced because it is uncomfortable or complicates the international conversation in any place. Having said that, Mr President, I would like to emphasise that I support all the reservations that have been expressed by the Center Party, but that I only support the one I mentioned earlier.
i-2168165010e3b43e-536	Mr President, I would like to Although I want to be clear that I support much of what Kerstin Lundgren said here, there are a lot of things that separate us, not least when it comes to democracy. I share the view that it is important to work for democracy. We see that the most undemocratic countries also have a significantly higher level of human rights deficit. But Kerstin Lundgren mentioned something about abortion. I fully support the right to healthy and safe abortion that has been modernised. On the other hand, there are slightly different views about abortion around the world, even in the more developed and democratic part. What I missed in Kerstin Lundgren's speech was the important thing on this issue, namely combating sex-selective abortions. This type of abortion exists in oppressor states, in China and in several of the Muslim countries. You choose a fetus or unborn child because of the sex it happens to have. Is this something that Kerstin Lundgren thinks is important at all?
i-2168165010e3b43e-539	Mr President, I would like to I am not surprised by Markus Wiechels's comment that there are many things that separate us in terms of human rights. Our whole attitude is based on the equal rights and value of all people – not to divide, not to give some more right than anyone else, not to say that it is good and it is evil in the way that characterizes the Swedish Democrats in their political action. It is on that basis that racists build their line of argument – to divide people, not to see everyone as equal. If you do, you easily end up in the same environments as the Swedish Democrats. I am glad that we differ in this way, but I regret that we have a party in the Swedish Parliament that stands for those values. It's troubling. But the debate is going on, and we are obviously talking to each other. There are those who are trying to say that we do not. So to women's rights, which are human rights. I assume that Markus Wiechel agrees that women's rights are human rights. Of course, if that is the case, the woman's right to her body is absolutely crucial, as is the woman's right to choose and decide whether she wants to have an abortion or not, regardless of what others think. From that point of view, you do not need to have the kind of selective vision that you so much want. The selective approach of some countries is selective precisely because some are considered to be worth more than others. I do not regard one person as worth more than the other, but I want to be clear about women having the right to decide whether or not they want to have an abortion.
i-2168165010e3b43e-544	Mr President, I would like to Kerstin Lundgren has not listened to anything I have said today – or ever before, it seems to me. When have I ever divided groups into different compartments? When have the Swedish Democrats done so during the time that Kerstin Lundgren has been on the Foreign Affairs Committee or at all? I mean, it's all over the place. It's bullshit. Frankly, I am quite upset about such a thing. I devoted quite a lot of my speech, although there was much to talk about, to talking about women's rights. But Kerstin Lundgren does not even touch the question I asked. It's about sex-selective abortions. Is it important or not for the Center Party to prevent sex-selective abortions? Is it more important than ensuring that in some countries this type of selective funds can be continued? I find it remarkable that women should be given the right to kill an unborn child because of its sex rather than the right of an unborn child to be born regardless of the sex it happens to have.
i-2168165010e3b43e-548	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I have read various Swedish-democratic writings. I read what you say and how you express yourself in different contexts. And when I do, Mr President, when I not only listen to some speeches but see the context in which they are made, my conclusion is that the whole idea of the Swedish Democrats is based on dividing people, not seeing everyone as equal. It is also one of the clear expressions of the historical root system of the Swedish democrats, Mr President. It's still with some surprise I hear Markus Wiechel talking about killing children. We have the position, Mr President, that the right of women to decide and decide over their bodies and the freedom to make legal and safe abortions is something extremely important. Then there is – and we have also criticised this – in China, with the attitude they have had there, a marker of the patriarchal attitude: You think that some are worth more than others. That, of course, is something that we criticise in every place, and it affects. I said that we should not sift human rights regardless of political, religious or cultural stance. There is, of course, something that applies here too.
i-2168165010e3b43e-552	Mr President, I would like to When the Riksdag discusses and debates human rights, we usually produce the most grand rhetoric and our very best formulations. It is often beautiful and a little atmospheric but not always as concrete. It is easy to see human rights as something a little vague and something on which there is agreement in this House. But the starting point for a debate on human rights is, or should be, the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948. The 30 articles supported by the world's countries are anything but vague or empty rhetoric. The UN General Declaration is crystal clear on point by point when it comes to the heavy responsibilities of governments and decision-makers, but also clear about the concrete rights that we all have, whether we are male MPs in Sweden, LGBT people in Uganda or women or girls in Nicaragua. Human rights carry a great inherent explosive power. To say that all human beings are equally worthy, that human rights are individual, undivided and mutually cooperative, is, unfortunately, in our time and world, still highly revolutionary. Should we really show, in words and deeds, that human rights cover everyone, not only the world, but also our own country, would look very different. For a Sweden that respected Article 14, which states that a country has the right to seek and enjoy asylum from persecution in other countries, it would not have been a country that sends children back to Afghanistan of war and violence. If we in Sweden had respected Article 23, which says that everyone has the right to equal pay for equal work without discrimination, we would not have accepted that women in Sweden earn on average SEK 3.6 million less than men during a lifetime. I believe that the debate in this House on housing shortages and unemployment would have looked very different if we had taken our starting point in Articles 23 and 25, which describe everyone's fundamental right to work and housing. The Left Party wants Sweden to be a country that stands up for all human rights, no matter where, when or with what motives they are violated or curtailed – whether on the Mediterranean, in Iran's prisons or in our own Swedish bedrooms. If we are to be a credible force for human rights in the world, we must begin by seeing our own challenges in our own country. Mr President, I would like to In today's report, the Left Party has seven reservations with sharp and concrete proposals on how we want to tighten up and develop Sweden's work on human rights. Since Article 2 of the UN Declaration of Human Rights states that everyone is entitled to all human rights and freedoms, without any distinction of any kind, we highlight in reservation 7 concrete proposals on how Sweden could now work within the UN system to strengthen work on human rights. We want to reform the Human Rights Council, strengthen the mandate and independence of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and clearly include the work on human rights in the mission of UN country coordinators around the world. Fundamentally, a Sweden that stands up for human rights never helps to vote in countries that violate human rights in the UN bodies that stand up for and protect those rights. Over the last decade, we have seen many examples of violations of international law: the US-led attacks on Iraq and Afghanistan, Russia's occupation and annexation of Crimea, Israel's settler policy. In the wake of international crime, there is increased violence, widespread repression and widespread and serious violations of human rights. Therefore, in reservation 30, we highlight the importance of re-establishing respect for international law. We want to strengthen the UN International Court, the Permanent Arbitration Court and the International Criminal Court. Mr President, I would like to Article 5 states that no one shall be subjected to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. This is a right that also applies to the children of the world. That is why we in the Left Party want Sweden to start active work so that all the countries of the world will ban child abuse. Article 6 describes everyone's right to an identity. But one in three children born here on earth has no birth certificate. These requirements are highlighted in reservation 21 because we see a need for clear guidelines, tools and competence, to strengthen and systematise Sweden's work with children's rights. Article 25 of the Declaration of Human Rights establishes everyone's right to health. We know that this presupposes the right to own body, sexuality and reproduction, including the right to have a legal and safe abortion. Therefore, in reservation 9, we have highlighted the need for Sweden to allocate at least 10 per cent of its aid budget to the work for sexual and reproductive health and corresponding rights and for us to increase support for contraception, evidence-based sex information and accessible youth receptions. We want Sweden to work actively to ensure that all countries implement UN resolutions on preventing and eradicating child and forced marriages. Mr President, I would like to The rights of LGBTQ people are also human rights. We want Sweden to increase support for the brave LGBTQ activists who are fighting around the world and ensure that LGBTQ organisations can also speak and have a voice within the UN system. We now want Sweden to use its seat in the Security Council to make the violence against LGBTQ people visible in armed conflicts, not least what we now see affecting LGBTQ people in Chechnya, Syria and Iraq. Since gay and bisexual women and transgender women belong to the most vulnerable groups among women in the world, we also think it is crucial that LGBTQ issues are raised in the Women's Commission. Mr President, I would like to Article 18 says that everyone has the right to freedom of religion, but today we are seeing worldwide, including in our own country, how freedom of religion and belief is violated. The abuse affects practitioners of all religions, as well as persons who have no religious faith. But we see that they particularly affect women and girls. In too much of the world we see how men of power take the right to control women's bodies and sexuality and even how women and girls should dress: what they should wear and what they should not wear. We therefore say in reservation 25 that Sweden, with Norway and the Netherlands as role models among others, will work long-term and structured with issues related to freedom of religion and belief in its foreign policy and that together with Swedish civil society, a dialogue material will be developed on these issues, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Sida and other important actors can use in their work. Article 23 of the UN Declaration establishes everyone's right to work, social protection in the event of unemployment and the right to establish free and independent trade unions. Here, the Left Party has tabled eight concrete motions. I note that no bourgeois party, nor the Swedish Democrats, has any single claim in this area. On the Left side, we want to strengthen the ILO, the International Labour Organisation, in order, among other things, to be able to impose sanctions on states that violate the core conventions. We want the EU's trade agreements to be conditional on respect for the core ILO conventions and for Sweden to develop binding guidelines for corporate responsibility for human rights. Mr President, I would like to I will conclude by saying that a debate on human rights in Parliament is often characterised by high-profile speeches and fine rhetoric. But more than fine words are needed if we are to defend and stand up for human rights. Political will and often political courage are also needed. Clear decisions are needed and we are prepared to allocate the necessary resources, even when it costs. We in the Left Party have shown in our reservations and requests a series of concrete proposals on how Sweden can strengthen its work on human rights, if we as a country have the will and the courage to do so. Of course, we support all our proposals and reservations, but I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 19 on the need for increased efforts in the field of sexual and reproductive health and corresponding rights.
i-2168165010e3b43e-577	Mr President, I would like to Human dignity should be the focus, and the work to protect and protect human rights and freedoms should be a key objective of foreign policy. The concept of human rights is based on the idea that individuals should be protected against abuse in all the different religions and cultures of the world. Human rights govern the rights of each person against the state and the obligations of the state against each person. However, in a globalised world, it is no longer only the state that has the task of promoting and guaranteeing respect for human rights. All individuals and global players, such as international organisations and multinationals, have a responsibility for the situation of their fellow human beings. The Christian-Democratic ideology places human dignity at the heart of the issue. Each individual has one and the same value, an inviolable value. If we are to get anywhere together in our efforts to eradicate poverty and oppression, we must have human dignity as our starting point. Apartheid, South Africa, would be unthinkable if the whites of South Africa had wanted to accept that human dignity has nothing to do with skin color. Torture and the murder of LGBT people in Chechnya could not have happened if the realization had been that human dignity has nothing at all to do with sexual orientation. Dawit Isaak, Gui Minhai and Raif Badawi had not been imprisoned, and the Islamic State had never been able to murder because of religious or ethnic affiliation – it had not even existed. Unfortunately, the list can be made very long, whether it concerns the list of serious violations of human rights and freedoms that are going on in our world or the list of things that would not have happened if human dignity were at the centre. The fight for human rights and freedoms is no longer as obvious. The fight is about to quiet down. We saw this in the negotiations on the new UN Sustainable Development Goals. We see it in EU cooperation, where countries that clearly stand up for human rights are becoming fewer. In the light of this, it is extremely important that Sweden does not fail. It is important that Sweden does not fail when we want to trade with countries where respect for human rights and freedoms is not important. It is important that Sweden does not fail in the search for fame and positions in UN cooperation. Mr President, I would like to The world is big and the human rights crimes are many. There is a great deal of commitment in this House to the defence of human rights and freedoms, which means that this report is also comprehensive. I have therefore chosen to mention in this speech just a few examples of thematic areas where we Christian Democrats would have liked to see further efforts and more concrete action by the Swedish side. Let me start with the UN. The letter states that the UN is the only global intergovernmental forum for the development and enforcement of human rights and that Sweden's work within the UN reflects a general ambition to increase the role of the organisation and strengthen international efforts on human rights. That is a good ambition. The UN is a unique and important organisation, but more is needed, because it is an organisation with enormous challenges and whose credibility has been damaged. Sweden is a UN member, along with a number of countries with a view to democracy and human rights that differ considerably from our own. It is therefore also crucial that the UN speed up its reform efforts. Without change, confidence in the UN will not last. The government invested heavily in getting a seat in the UN Security Council. The same commitment and the same great effort must now be made to bring about reform. The fact that there are shortcomings shows not least the recent attention to the fact that Sweden has not taken a stance on Saudi Arabia's entry into the Women's Commission. The examples that do not reach the media are, of course, many. For example, it is now unclear whether Sweden has contributed to China having a seat in the Human Rights Council – this Human Rights Council, which unfortunately consists of members who consistently violate the rights they are appointed to defend. The Christian Democrats therefore propose that requirements and criteria must be in place in order for countries to have a place in the Human Rights Council. Mr President, I would like to Freedom of expression is a human right and one of the cornerstones of democracy. All people have the right to express themselves, share and disseminate information and opinions. The free word promotes social and democratic development. The Internet has only changed our world in a few decades. It has increased people's ability to gain knowledge and information, express opinions and exchange ideas. At the same time, there is a tendency for governments, through censorship, monitoring, restrictive legislation and filtering, to try to take control of the dissemination of information to which the Internet contributes. In our alliance-wide reservation, we therefore stress that Sweden must be a champion of freedom online. We will follow up on the resolution of the Council of Human Rights Ministers on the principle that the same rights apply on the Internet as outside. Sweden was once the initiator of this resolution, and we shall continue to be its main defender. Mr President, I would like to Freedom of religion and belief is owned by every individual. It is being violated today in many countries. In too many places people are persecuted for their faith or non-belief and driven away from their homes under the most repulsive threats. Restrictions on this freedom must be recognised and condemned. The Christian Democrats believe that the work on freedom of religion must come up higher on the international agenda. We believe, for example, that all diplomats should have received training on issues relating to freedom of religion in order to affirm this better in different countries where we operate. Mr President, I would like to There are many civil society organisations working specifically to support opposition groups and human rights fighters in repressive states around the world. This work is extremely important for those individuals who daily risk their own and their family's safety in order to stand up for human rights and freedoms. Nevertheless, people's ability to organise themselves is increasingly limited. Reducing the scope for civil society and for human rights defenders is a major obstacle to development. Sweden must put tougher pressure on partner countries where civil society space is shrinking and opposition politicians are becoming increasingly difficult to operate. Mr President, I would like to With this letter, the government wants to take a holistic approach to human rights throughout foreign policy, but the objectives of foreign and security policy are not as clear. The government considers itself once again taking a holistic approach and inventing the wheel. Not recognizing the work of previous governments feels a little fuzzy in this context. This is not the first time a government has highlighted women's rights. This is not the first time peace work has been carried out. The Swedish Parliament must never be silenced when human rights and freedoms are trampled on. We must never, ever remain silent, but stand up to the government and to the governments of other countries. Of course, I support all the reservations of the Christian Democrats, but for time to come, I only ask for reservation 13.
i-2168165010e3b43e-597	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Foreign Affairs Committee's report UU15, human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Swedish foreign policy. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Then I would like to thank all the members of the committee for a good dialogue on the report. International law, international humanitarian law and the International Criminal Court are the cornerstones of international work. When I read the report, my memories went back to Lebanon in 1982, when we were invaded by the Israeli army. I was 12 years old and remember how fighter planes bombed Beirut day in and day out. In 1982 a building was bombed in the residential area where a cousin of Dad, Samir Mouneimne, lived with his family – wife, four children plus mother. The massacre in Sabra and Shatila in September 1982 occurred when Beirut was controlled by the Israeli army. Then falancers were released into the refugee camps and killed hundreds of civilians. Most of them were children and women. We lived a few blocks from these refugee camps. I woke up screaming from the streets. As I walked up to the balcony, I saw women and children who were easily dressed and ran into the street, from death. They shouted: They execute people in refugee camps! Two years later I woke up in the middle of the night in our apartment in Beirut of unknown voices storming in the apartment. That day, Mother's cousin had come to sleep with us with her children and wife. The militant group that entered our apartment was heavily armed. They took Mom's cousin out on the street and executed him while his family stood on the balcony watching. Today, similar events take place in war-affected areas such as Syria, Iraq and Yemen. I am very concerned that humanitarian law and international law are not being respected. But when one hears the ambitions of the government and the committee for how Sweden should lead and strengthen its role on the international stage in terms of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, I know there is hope. Whatever government we have, Sweden will not give up – we will work to promote respect for international law and strengthen the institutions that are set to defend it. The committee also welcomes the fact that the government has convened an International Law and Disarmament Delegation, which meets two to three times a year. In my view, the fact that humanitarian access is often restricted in humanitarian crises is sufficient to constitute a breach of humanitarian law. The committee also welcomes the fact that issues relating to a general increase in knowledge of international humanitarian law, humanitarian principles and improved opportunities for safe and unhindered humanitarian access to people in crisis are highlighted in the government's recently adopted strategy for Sweden's humanitarian aid through the Board of International Development Cooperation. Like many others, I am very happy when the ICC starts working more effectively and ensures that the people who murdered civilians end up behind bars in international justice. Then my father's and mother's cousins and their family can have peace. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude my speech by saying that I am proud Swedish and that I still have a strong faith – a belief in Sweden and in continued democracy.
i-2168165010e3b43e-607	Mr President, I would like to These are stories that the person we've heard Jamal tell in the speaker's chair before me that we have to listen to. Mr President, I would like to It is in the light of mankind's most fatal failures that the idea of human rights and the Convention on Human Rights have arisen. It is not in a naive belief that man is good, but in an expensive assurance of mankind's capacity to do evil. It was with the hope that future generations could learn from history and make the future better that the UN Convention on Human Rights was adopted at the UN in 1948. That year, the exterminator Emerich Roth was 24 years old. He was a man who had just survived five concentration camps and soon thereafter would move to Sweden. A few months ago he wrote an article in Svenska Dagbladet, in the wake of the fact that the Moderates openly declared their willingness to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. Here's what he wrote: 中 Really bad and tried ideas are rooted by the messengers of evil and launched again among those who cannot see similarities with the past and recognize the warning signals. If humans had done it in the 1930s, the Holocaust would not have been possible. ..................................................... Emerich Roth therefore reminds us to look and see the warning signals, even in our immediate vicinity. They are not always dressed in uniform and boots but are often seen in costumes, Finnish and an outstretched hand. When we debate the government's letter on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Swedish foreign policy, I think we must bear in mind Emerich Roth's words, Mr President. Our equality before the law, our right to vote for whatever parties we want, our right to control and control our bodies, our sexuality and our religious beliefs – or non-belief, for that matter – as well as our right to speak freely and openly about all these are human, democratic rights that must be the cornerstone of every functioning society. It has been as much these rights that built our prosperity and prosperity as the other way round. For any development of value to take place, peace and a society based on trust, trust and participation are needed. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, we see that these rights, which we may have taken for granted, are now being challenged by forces in the world, in Europe and here in Sweden with an intensity we have not seen for a very long time in the free world. From Daish's recruitment films to the Nordic Resistance marches in Falun, we see those who openly show their contempt for the open society – the society we want to protect. However, there are more subtle warning signals than that to borrow Emerich Roth's words again. History has taught us that if we begin to twirl on just one, small part of the most fundamental rights and freedoms, the supporting pillars of civilization can quickly turn out to be on rather shaky and loose ground. Mr President, I would like to The collective memory may be short... a little too short for us to see the similarities between our time and that of our grandparents... but we need to keep our eyes open. We must continue the fight for human rights and for democracy. We must continue the fight for the little boy in Syria, who may have only experienced war and perhaps have had his family killed by the Syrian regime – who has been beaten to death even before it has begun. Where are his human rights? We must continue the fight for the half-family that has managed to escape war and barely survived the journey in a half-trapped rubber boat across the Mediterranean to a Europe that selfishly sets up walls because one cannot look beyond one's own egoistic interests, in a complete lack of empathy and empathy. Where are the human rights of that family? We must continue the fight for the woman who is being raped as part of a disgusting warfare – or of those we have sent there to actually protect them. I refuse to call it sexual abuse, because it has nothing to do with sex. It's violence. It's violence, humiliation, and destruction. Where are the human rights of these women? Imagine that there are countries in the world where rapists will be punished if they marry the woman! What is it? What does it do to the woman? Not only will she be subjected to a disgusting, terrible assault, but she will also be forced to live with the serious criminal. What should we call it? Should we call it double, triple or infinite punishment for that woman? At heart: Do you think that we in Sweden live up to human rights as long as women and men do not have the same rights and opportunities? I believe that even Sweden does not do this – even we have a long way to go. I refuse to accept that change takes time. They say: Be patient, it takes time! No. Change requires one thing: will. Then change can be created quickly and very resolutely. Mr President, I would like to Some wonder why our red-green government is so keen to speak on the UN, about the importance of long-term aid, about peace and state-building and about Sweden's role in this. These may not be electoral issues, but it has to do with seeing what happens when we don't talk about it and don't work for it – when we erode the concepts and forget why our grandparents at one time were willing to fight for life and death for this very thing. Swedish foreign policy and Swedish aid are as much a reminder of what makes our own country as of why we must not take this for granted. I therefore call for the motion in the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security Policy to be approved and for reservations to be rejected.
i-2168165010e3b43e-624	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I intend to address a different aspect from what Jamal Mouneimne did before me and a different aspect from what my subsequent Socialist colleagues will do. I will talk about the UN and human rights. Work on human rights in the UN takes place in a variety of arenas. This takes place in bodies such as the Security Council, the Third Committee of the General Assembly, the Human Rights Council, the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Convention Committees. The promotion and strengthening of human rights is also central to the UN's specialised agencies and in funds and programmes. Sweden acts in these arenas to focus on human rights. Sweden has been one of the ten non-permanent members of the UN Security Council since the turn of the year. We were elected there last summer as the first choice of the world's countries after a successful campaign. This is proof that Sweden has a high reputation among the world's countries. This is a reputation that has been built up over many years by various governments and shows a few things. This shows, among other things, that Sweden is a country that stands up for human rights. We are a country which expresses our opinion and which always promotes dialogue and diplomacy instead of conflict and violence. We also have a long tradition of aid and development cooperation with many countries in the world. There we have shown a genuine desire for joint development and solidarity. We do not, like many Western countries, have a colonial past, and during the Cold War we were not on the side of any of the superpowers, which gave us an independent voice. We are a country that has not been at war in over 200 years. We have worked for a long time, not least in the UN, for peace and disarmament, for conflict prevention and mediation, and for the strengthening of human rights. Sweden is one of the largest donors to the UN. We are one of far too few countries that often contribute so-called nuclear aid, i.e. non-earmarked money that can be used in a way that gives the UN agency or the UN fund in question greater freedom of action. We also have a long tradition of providing the UN system with prominent and competent negotiators, officials and diplomats – from Dag Hammarskjöld and Alva Myrdal to Jan Eliasson and Hans Blix. They are some of a long line of Swedes who have made outstanding contributions at the UN, not to mention all the soldiers who have contributed to UN service. The place of security gives us the opportunity to be at the heart of the events of world politics. There, Sweden has an opportunity, which we also use, to push forward on issues relating to human rights, women's rights, conflict prevention and other priorities. Of course, the EU is our most important foreign policy arena, but the UN is still a foundation of Swedish foreign policy and, as the letter says, the only global forum for decision-making we have. However, the UN has its shortcomings. It has been pointed out here, and it is, of course, true. Many of the countries that are members of the UN are dictatorships or one-party states that are authoritarian to some extent and have too many democratic shortcomings. Human rights are violated in many countries and in many different ways. The UN has not succeeded sufficiently in living up to the beautiful declaration adopted in 1948 – we must be honest about that. For example, the UN Human Rights Council has 47 members, and not all are democracies that fully respect human rights. But Sweden and the EU are involved in the work to strengthen the Council and to ensure that countries live up to human rights in a better way. We also welcome the fact that Sweden is pushing for better opportunities for civil society to participate in the Council's work. Another important tool for the human rights issue is the universal reviews of the situation in different countries that are taking place in the so-called UPR processes. It is a good way to monitor developments over time and compare countries among themselves. Sweden will continue to be active in these reviews in order to highlight the violations of human rights that are taking place globally. In conclusion, Mr President, there is a major and important work being done at the UN to strengthen human rights. The UN is a foundation of Swedish foreign policy, and our place in the Security Council gives us an opportunity to focus on human rights issues. But the UN is not a perfect organization. There are challenges and reform needs, and Sweden is active in reforming the UN. Human rights are increasingly being called into question by authoritarian regimes. Political polarisation is increasing both within countries and between countries, as we see in the UN. Now more than ever, Sweden's voice is needed to raise these issues. It is easy to wish that the UN and its Member States were in a different way and that the fantastic declaration on human rights was the sole guide for all countries and decision-makers in the world. But that's not the case. We have to deal with the world we live in, and the only global decision-making body we have is the United Nations. I would like to conclude by quoting Dag Hammarskjöld, who in his day was also plagued by the shortcomings he saw in international cooperation. He said, "The UN has not been created to bring mankind to heaven, but to save it from hell." ..................................................... With that, Mr President, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-2168165010e3b43e-645	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Thorell for his speech. The UN is important and does much that is good, but the UN also has shortcomings. We Moderates are behind Sweden's candidacy for the UN Security Council, but we have also noted the shortcomings. It is about funding, among other things – it has been very unclear how it has happened. I am also thinking of the decisions that the government is now implementing in the UN Security Council. I would like to see greater transparency in this regard – what line is it taking? When it comes to the UN and prominent Swedes, there are many of them, which is something we should be very proud of. I would like to add one person who has done a lot, namely Anders Compass. Call them whistleblowers or people who act when they see irregularities – I sincerely hope that Sweden is using its place in the UN Security Council to ensure that these people's positions are strengthened and that this will not be something that can be ignored and that one can try to sweep away. People like Anders Compass are important for the future of the UN and for humanity.
i-2168165010e3b43e-650	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Margareta Cederfelt, for giving me the opportunity to also mention Anders Compass. He is an important person who has done an important job and has come to represent the courageous official, who dares to stand up and violate conventions, and perhaps even regulations, in order to arouse opinion and sound the alarm about abuses. All credit to him! Whistleblowers in general, we should be careful and protect as much as possible. As regards the work on the candidacy of the Security Council, it was the bourgeois government that started it under Carl Bildt's leadership. It didn't happen much. It was a candidacy, but the campaign itself was rather discreet, one might say. Then we took over the campaign and ran it. This work is being examined by both the KU and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Of course, I do not want to anticipate any conclusions from there until it is clear. I know that there is a commitment to UN issues throughout the Parliament. But I would like it to be the same drive and passion as it is to review the dictatorship when it comes to being involved in discussing what we are doing in the Security Council, and we are doing a lot that is good. Now I have been away most of the parliamentary year as a parenting leave. However, as I understand it, the head of the UN Department comes to the committee regularly and reports on what has been done in the Security Council, answers questions about what has happened and tells us about the coming weeks. I think that is an excellent way to be transparent, and I hope that will continue. I appreciate all the discussion about the UN that we have in committee.
i-2168165010e3b43e-655	Mr President, I would like to That is precisely what has been done and what is to be done. If it is to be a proper transparency, it is also about what it is that comes. There is a story, there is a present and there is a future. When it comes to the UN, I would like to highlight something that has been mentioned here before, namely the Rome Statute. It is important when it comes to war crimes and also includes sexual abuse. It is precisely in these contexts that the Rome Statute is included. It is part of the UN package, and there is much that can be done to strengthen and increase the creativity of the Rome Statute. There are a large number of countries today which have doubts about the Rome Statute and the ICC. There are also countries that do not want to join and that do their best to stay away. What will the Swedish Government do with its UN mandate to ensure that the most serious crimes cannot pass unnoticed?
i-2168165010e3b43e-658	Mr President, I would like to Protecting international law is a key element. The fact that we have an international regulatory framework that is being followed and that there are institutions that are respected by all countries in the world is a priority for our government, including for this former government, to uphold international law, the Rome Statute and the International Criminal Court. Assaults in conflicts should not go unpunished. You have to be held accountable for what you've done. It may take time and the mills can grind rather slowly, but one should be brought to justice and take responsibility. We saw this after the war in former Yugoslavia, and we saw it after the massacre in Rwanda. It must also be brought to justice after the war in Syria and other abuses that are taking place in the present. It is a priority for us, and I also appreciate the commitment of the Moderates and Margareta Cederfelt. As far as sexual abuse is concerned, it is something that the Moderates do not need to convince our current Foreign Minister to have as a priority. Mrs Wallström has a background as a special envoy on this particular issue. I know for sure that this is something that is raised in the discussions in the Security Council and when we decide what priorities we should have. After all, when it comes to being transparent about what will happen, the work of the Security Council is governed by events in the world. No matter how important and powerful we are, we can't know what's going on around the corner. I wish it were.
i-2168165010e3b43e-662	Mr President, I would like to In order not to forget that, I would like to begin by calling for the committee's position in report UU15 to be approved and therefore rejecting all reservations. Each Parliamentary session deals with a report on human rights by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This time we are consolidating the report in the letter that the government sent to Parliament last autumn, Human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Swedish foreign policy, which is also the name of the UU report15. Yesterday afternoon I landed in Sweden again after a few days in Pacific City, Philippines. I was invited as one of the lecturers of young leaders from different parts of Southeast Asia, aged 20 - 35. Although we are of the same age, our living conditions differ completely. When I described the existence of workers in Sweden, as they looked almost 200 years ago, I got recognizable glances. And what at home can be used as a description of how much we achieved was there everyday food. Sweden is then Southeast Asia today. It is low wages, poor working environment and a total dependence on employers. Trade unions are about to be built up on a huge uphill. There is a fear in workers to organize themselves, to oppose themselves and to demand their right. Do you recognize that? And as an extra spice, there are 6,000 extrajudicial executions in President Dutertes' so-called war on drugs. I heard stories about people who seek help to bury their dead, who are asked if they can testify to it in court but do not dare, because then they themselves risk ending up in the same situation. If you don't report the drug addiction you know, you're considered an accomplice. Cops have a bearing on the number of impact they are supposed to make – policemen who do their job in a country with a president who openly questions whether there is even something called human rights. For those who want to immerse themselves in the situation in the various countries of Southeast Asia, the government website is a suitable place to visit. On 26 April, as previous speakers have said, 135 different country reports were published there – MR reports drawn up in the same way as the letter we are to adopt today. In order to have a foreign policy that is easy to follow, I think it is a good concept that letters and reports are consistent and recognizable. This year's reports represent an increase in ambition compared to the previous ones and have also highlighted women's and girls' enjoyment of human rights. Mr President, I would like to As the committee has previously stated, human rights are universal, indivisible and mutually cooperative. This means that they should apply equally to everyone, in all countries and that everyone is equally important. I would think that only in this room would we rank the different rights differently depending on ideology and background. If we deviate from the principles of rights, do we not also give scope for interpretation to others who may not think it is very important to be able to organise themselves, who may not think it is so very important to ban torture, who may not think that children have rights? As the first country in the world to ban child abuse, in 1979, Sweden is a strong voice in the world when it comes to children's right to protection from violence. The committee also stresses in the report that Sweden's long-term objective in relation to children's rights must be that children and young people should be respected and given the opportunity for development, security, participation and influence. Children have rights and should also be able to assert them. Today it is not just Rebecka and Ruben who have name day. It also has International Child Helpline Day – something that Bris, for example, draws attention to. In 2015, the International Children's Helpline Network received over 20 million calls from young people, and one in seven related to violence and abuse. Where children should be able to feel the most secure, at home, is for some the totally opposite. Anyone who should be there for you and make sure that you grow up to be a safe and independent individual does not always take their responsibility. Then it is important that others do so. Sweden must continue to stand up for children's rights and protect everyone's freedom, whether they have reached the age of 18 or not. Mr President, I would like to I am proud of the work the government is doing for human rights in the world. Let me reuse an old phrase: I am proud but not satisfied. When we see the totalitarian powers around the world growing stronger and stronger, when we see the situation of human rights defenders getting worse every year, and when we follow the terrible reports of abuse in countries getting closer to ours, it is extremely important that we continue to fight for what we believe in, tirelessly.
i-2168165010e3b43e-676	Mr President, I would like to When I became politically involved, I did it to take a leap forward. At present, we sometimes have to make a move in order not to take a step backwards. I know that this will be a different speech, but we are also living in different times. Most of us in here have seen and heard stories about Daish's extremely cruel actions. I am thinking of the Christians who were drowned in an underwater cage with underwater cameras. They were murdered only because they were Christians. I am thinking of the hundreds of Yazidians who were killed in August 2014 in the city of Kocho and the tens of thousands of Yazidians who were trapped on Mount Sinjar without access to water, food or medical care – this simply because they were Yazidians. Without the efforts of the international coalition, these people would have been murdered. I'm thinking about the two young gay guys who got thrown out of a high-rise in al-Raqqa. They were murdered only because they were homosexuals. The violations of human rights are numerous and brutal. I thought I'd dwell on LGBTQ rights. It feels extra important today when it's the day against homo, bi- and transphobic. Although it looks pretty good in Sweden with human rights in general, there have been nasty attacks on, for example, RFSL and its representatives. I would remind you that democracy and human rights are in decline in much of the world. As I mentioned earlier, Syria and Iraq are examples of horror. In my further speech, I will focus on LGBT rights in Russia and Chechnya. I'll tell you about two fates of life, one from the past and one from the present. Let me back off a little bit in time and tell you about Vadim Kozin. He was born in what was then called Tsarryssland, lived most of his life in the Soviet Union and died in the Russian Federation in 1994, 91 years old. Few of us have lived in the same country under three different regimes. Why is his life's fate interesting in May 2017? Because his struggle to love and be loved concerns all of us. Human rights concern us all. Vadim Kozin could have been Russia's answer to Elvis Presley or Frank Sinatra. He was very successful in the 20's and 30's. The British media company BBC recently made a documentary about him and his famous and skilled tango song. During World War II, he sang to the troops. He sang in the Nazi besieged Leningrad – the city where his mother and sister starved to death. In his diary he often returned to their fate and regret that he could not have saved them. At the end of World War II, 1944, he was arrested and accused of homosexual acts and anti - Soviet propaganda. His only crime was that he loved a man. During Chrusjtjov and Brezjnev, he lived free but still unfree in Asian Russia. He was no longer an official person. Sometimes, however, he was allowed to perform for the troops in Afghanistan. He was more or less forgotten until the 1980s when the Soviet Union finally began to disintegrate. Celebrities and admirers from all over the vast kingdom came and greeted him. He finally got his revenge. Shortly after his 90th birthday, Russia decriminalized homosexuality. Soon thereafter he died. Here my speech could have ended happily, but human rights in Russia have not taken a step forward but gone backwards. Human rights, equal value and right of all people, are not forever. What has been achieved through struggle can be abolished. Today, we need to take a stand in order not to take a step backwards, although we would actually like to take a step forward. Mark Twain once wrote that history does not repeat itself, but it rhymes. That is why I am now going to talk about the human rights situation in Russia and Chechnya 25 years after the death of Mr Kozin. What would have been a night out with the friends ended up in a pogrom for Maksim, who is in his 20s. What would have been a few hours of pleasure was two weeks of torture and abuse. It all started with Maksim meeting a friend in an apartment, but there were two agents from Chechen intelligence. They beat him and then took him away. They strapped him into a chair connected to electricity and began questioning him. They screamed, "Who else do you know?" Meanwhile, they electrocuted him. The pain was terrible. Death felt close, says Maksim, but I didn't say anything. Despite the decriminalisation of homosexuality in Russia, homosexuals are having an extremely difficult time. This is particularly true in recent months, when Pro-Cremlin Chechen President Ramzan Kadyrov has begun to persecute homosexuals. His history of human rights violations is long. Until today, at least 100 people have been arrested and 4 have died. Their only crime is that they have loved another human being. Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel has protested, and the Swedish Government has protested. It is reassuring that both conservative forces and democratic socialist forces in Europe have protested against what is going on. Russia's leader Putin has said that there is no evidence that this has happened, but after international protests has finally agreed to investigate. It matters what the outside world thinks. This report is therefore important. This is important because we are marking what the Swedish Parliament thinks. It is also important for those affected and their relatives and friends. It means a lot to them that we see what has happened, that we are prepared to listen to them and that we dare to stand up for the equal value and right of all people. Yesterday it was the Jews, today homosexuals, tomorrow someone else. Respect for LGBT people's enjoyment of human rights can in some cases be seen as a measure and indicator or warning bell for the extent to which a state respects human rights. All men's equal value and right. That goes for all of us. All for one, one for all. We cannot and should not make a difference between people regardless of origin, sexuality, gender or whatever it may be. Our fight must be solid. It is therefore gratifying that a large part of the Swedish parliament supports the proposal and shares its principles.
i-2168165010e3b43e-707	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservation to be approved 4. I would also like to thank Anders Österberg for a fine and important speech, in which I think we could agree with a great deal, regardless of party political sphere. It's important to all of us. Today, as I said, it is the International Day called Idaho, which wants to put the fight against homo- and transphobia at the centre. I have long said that well-carried Pride parades are a litmus test for freedom in the world. It is therefore gratifying that this very week the first prize event ever takes place in Lebanon's capital Beirut. Previous attempts to launch Pride festivals, seminars and activities have been met with enormous opposition from religious leaders and security forces. As you know, homosexual acts are still prohibited in Lebanon under the law. It is not impossible that this week we will see various forms of sabotage and other unpleasant reactions. At the same time, it is not possible to get away from the fact that it is a major step in the freedom of the Pride flag to flutter in the Lebanese wind. Mr President, I would like to The year is 2017. Child mortality is lower than ever before. Girls go on average nine years in school, while boys go ten, on a global level. Between 1990 and 2015, the proportion of extremely poor people in the world decreased from 37 to 10 per cent. This means that in the last 25 years 138 000 people have made their way out of poverty every day, and it is a revolution of freedom that takes place completely in silence. In many ways we can say that we are living in a whole new world today, another world than ten years ago. While progress is unheard of, we see a backlash of freedom, also in our part of the world. When the world's most powerful man acts like a schoolyard bully, we know the world has changed. When European democracies such as Poland and Hungary challenge the rule of law, we know that we are living in a new Europe. Democracy declined in 2016 for the eleventh year in a row. What we thought was obvious is no longer. The spotlight should now be directed not least at Western democracies, although the abuses and attacks on human rights are undoubtedly the most disgusting and worst in the dictatorships in the Middle East and in those parts of Africa and Asia still ruled by autocrats, military dictators or religious fundamentalists, usually Islamists. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a medium-sized country in the EU and a small country in the United Nations. But we can make a difference, especially by pushing the issues that are politically sensitive globally. In the current situation of the world, a progressive government must put more gunpowder on certain issues than on others. When democracy is dismantled, some suffer more quickly than others, because not all human rights are as stable in the world. Women's rights are often lost only when a country is beginning to be dedemocratic. In a world where knökkonservative men and religious fundamentalists in some places have a great influence on foreign policy, it is lonely to pursue issues of sexual and reproductive health. This is particularly true in conflict areas. Just as self-evident for me as a liberal and feminist to support the She decides initiative, which the Swedish Government, together with other governments, has well started, I think it is that we should have a campaign called You decide as a strategy in Swedish foreign policy. She decides is about all women having the right to choose what they want to do with their body, and You decide is about all people also having the right to choose their own leaders. There is no distinction between democracy and feminism. Without free discussion, conservative patriarchal standards cannot be broken. Girls denied education remain dependent on men. Even in a situation where different authoritarian forces want to take away power from people over their lives, it is important that Sweden, with its long legacy of democracy and freedom of expression, stands up for these values. It is not by chance that the least free countries are also the most poor. Where people are not allowed to choose their leaders and express themselves freely, they are often also prevented from owning, trading, inheriting, mortgageing or signing contracts. It is elected politicians – representatives of political parties – who must take their place in the parliaments of the world. It is therefore important to highlight freedom of association, which is central. Opposition parties are often particularly vulnerable when a regime takes an authoritarian path. Individuals must be given freedom to organise themselves in political parties and civil society, but also in trade unions, as mentioned in the debate. Freedom of association, which is also part of the package, is actually a political and civic right. It is extremely important to highlight this. This applies not least to women, because without women in parties it will be difficult to increase the proportion of women politicians in power positions. Hillary Clinton was right when she said that women's rights are human rights. We must always bear in mind that women's human rights, like those of minorities, are more vulnerable than human rights in general. Mr President, I would like to In Venezuela, socialist oppression is intensifying. The country is developing into a full-fledged dictatorship, and at a rapid pace. Mrs Maduro has tried to dissolve Parliament. He condemns protestors in military courts and is now planning to quickly rewrite the Constitution to his own advantage. Infants die in hospitals because the drugs have long since run out. There is nothing to eat in many parts of the country, and political oppression is compact. We have heard reports of women getting wet with water and then having their genitals tortured with electric shocks. When people have protested over the past month against the insane regime in Venezuela, President Maduro has responded by increasing repression. The socialist government would rather violate human rights than give up its ideological dream. Maduro has continued the shameful work of the representative Hugo Chávez in dismantling the freedom of the press. State television is filled hour after hour with government-friendly propaganda. At the same time, the state is losing control. Anarchy prevails in many places. We see a famine that has resulted in mass exodus. In Colombia, for example, there are just 1 million Venezuelans. We see, as in Europe, how people who have fled are affected and accused of crime and unemployment in the country. They live in a complete hell. It is not possible to condone such human rights abuses. Now that Sweden is on the UN Security Council, it is important that we raise Venezuela's issue in the centre. This decay has lasted a long time, and we see a threatening civil war. Remember that Venezuela, before the socialist takeover, was one of the richest countries in South America! Mr President, I would like to After Donald Trump was elected, Barack Obama gave one of his last speeches as President of the United States of Athens. There he pointed out what liberal philosopher John Rawls said, namely, that if you were born without knowing which sex, which class or which part of the world you are born in and are allowed to choose a historical period to live in, you would undoubtedly choose the present. This can be hard to believe when we see today's wars, rapes and natural disasters. We have to make sure that we change all the time. To conclude, Mr President, part of Beirut Pride is a storytelling night organised on the roof of a department store. People tell of their experiences of living as a LGBT person in Lebanon, a country that forbids sexual acts that are said to go against nature. One of the registered speakers wrote earlier this week on social media. I would like to conclude with those words: This is the first time I have told you who I am in public. Familiar faces would calm the butterflies in my stomach. Please, come and listen!
i-2168165010e3b43e-726	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the committee's report. I was going to say a few words about the SRHR. Access to sexual and reproductive health and rights is a fundamental human right. It is one of the cornerstones of promoting gender equality and the role of women in development. This is a prerequisite for sustainable development and the fight against poverty. Access to SRHR is central to improving the health of girls and women. We know that this is a controversial issue. We from Sweden will continue to highlight even uncomfortable questions about access to contraception, the right to abortion and the right to decide over their own body and sexuality. We should be internationally proactive, and we should have a continued focus on the rights perspective. I am very pleased to say that this is an issue that unites widely in this House. Seven out of eight parties are behind this. This government is actively working on these issues, as is the former bourgeois government. Among other things, we have taken various initiatives now that the financial situation on these issues is becoming increasingly difficult with a new administration in the United States. Several speakers have already highlighted the She decides initiative. Counterwind issues need global partnerships. We need to work with governments and parliaments around the world. This is an issue that not only unites Western countries, but it is also a broad South – North cooperation that is very successful on this issue. The right to decide over one's own body, sexuality and reproduction is fundamental. With this, I would like to thank you for this debate. I think it has been a good debate. We have a good discussion on human rights in committee and in this House. I want to thank you for that.
