i-7902612779595edc-6	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. The legislation we are going to discuss today is about how to get to those who go after our children. The Internet has no boundaries. Contact can be done 24 hours a day. Contacts can be made when our children are in their rooms doing homework, on their way to soccer practice or when they are on the school bus. The perpetrators of these crimes have no limits. They can strike at any time. They can take advantage of children who initially feel bad, who cut themselves and who have suicidal thoughts. They sniff up these children, for they know that there is the greatest likelihood that they can vent their own inclinations at the expense of the children. But society has boundaries. We are now demonstrating this by means of more stringent legislation. It's gonna cost us a lot of money to go after our kids. Those who try shouldn't feel safe. Those who go after our children should feel that we are now going after them with full power. We have seen shortcomings in the current legislation. Adults should no longer be able to hide behind the fact that they were not serious about a question to the children that you should be seen for sex. They should not get away with not having bought a ticket or booked a hotel room. They should not be able to ask children for children until they have an opportunity to fulfill their intentions. That the question is put to a child, to meet to have sex, should be criminal in itself. The child's response should not be decisive. Those who get caught will also receive severe punishment. We'll double the maximum sentence from one year to two years. Adults seeking contact with children for sex have felt far too safe. Those who try will be prosecuted and punished. The children should be safe, not those who want to hurt the children.
i-7902612779595edc-11	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the proposal for more effective legislation against adult sexual contact with children. The Alliance government introduced this crime rubrication in 2009. It was then a matter of an adult agreeing with a child under the age of 15 to meet for sexual purposes. In addition, an additional measure would be taken, such as booking a hotel room or buying a train ticket. The purpose, of course, was to try to prevent the adult from meeting the child and being able to abuse the child. The Crime Prevention Council made an evaluation in 2013 and concluded that the law did not work as intended. In most cases, the adult and the child had already met. In 50 percent of the cases, the child had been subjected to sexual crime. In 2012 and 2013, there were 269 police reported crimes in this regard. Only 15% led to conviction. Children who are victims of sexual crimes feel very bad. They don't sleep well. They do not perform well in school. They can't concentrate on school. They have a hard time trusting people. They're mentally unwell. Sometimes life can be affected. That's why we have to do everything we can to protect children. That is our duty. In 2015, the Alliance received an announcement. It was also supported by the Swedish Democrats. We wanted a more appropriate design and the punishment to be tightened up. Mr President, I would like to Before I entered the Riksdag in 2010, I worked as a child investigator in Gothenburg. At the beginning of 2010, I and a colleague got what I think was the first matter concerning grooming in Gothenburg – it was at least one of the first. It was a paedophile who was in prison for rape of children, but during his leave he had begun to contact lots of girls. He did so through text messages, physical letters, and the Internet. We seized the material. There was an incredible amount of material. We felt: Oh, my God, where should we start? It was so much. He had contacted hundreds of girls. We had to start going through the material. For example, there was a girl named Julia. Who's Julia? Where does Julia live? How old is she? Is she under 15, or is she over 15? Have they agreed to meet? Did the paedophile buy a train ticket or book a hotel room? That's what it took for this crime. When I read the letters, it was very easy to understand that the girls had fallen in love, for he was a master at writing loving letters. I felt that he was almost groping in even me. I'm afraid he was very good at this. Besides that, he had sent a picture of a handsome young guy who would imagine him--of course it didn't. What you should remember is that the girls who poke on this many times are very fragile. They have low self - confidence and may never have received a compliment. I understand that they are drawn to this. At least we managed to identify a dozen girls between the ages of 9 and 13. They were scattered all over Sweden. Me and my partner went to interrogate the girls. I have to say, it was terrible. I knew in advance that the hearts of the girls would be broken when I had to tell them the truth. I remember a girl in particular. You should have seen her face when I had to say: No, it's not the handsome guy, it's a 35-year-old man who's convicted of rape of children. You should have seen her face. I still remember that. It was like her whole life ran out of her face. It was terrible, and it must have been even more terrible for her. Therefore, I am very concerned when I read, for example, the referral from Norrköping District Court. They write that the punishment is too high with this proposal because the child has not yet been harmed because they have not met. Then I wonder: Have they understood nothing? You know, a grocer can go on for months and push the baby to meet. Do they really think that the child has not been harmed when the frog has been at it for months? The baby is under incredible pressure. It worries me that a district court can write like this. In fact, children have even killed themselves because they have felt incredible pressure to do both. Mr President, I would like to My colleague and I were not allowed to complete the investigation. The paedophile moved to another district, and we had to transfer the matter there. I sat a few months later in the chamber foyer and read Expressen. Then I saw that he had managed to rape another girl. Everything was right, so I realized it was the same man. The justice system wouldn't have been able to protect the girl. In any case, we got the announcement through, and the government has come up with this proposal. It has taken two and a half years, which I think is far too long, but better late than never. Now the criminal responsibility is to take effect even when the adult proposes that they meet – the adult does not need to get along with the child. Then this is removed with an additional measure. This is done so that in an earlier situation you can stop the pedophiles. The maximum sentence is also raised from one year to two years. Then the limitation period is extended from two years to five years, which is very good. The aim, of course, is for more people to be convicted, but it is also the case that there is a need for resources in the police that do not exist today. Even investigations into completed rapes against children are being piled up, and that is really, really bad. So the justice system cannot protect children. That is why I am concerned that children's crimes have gone the wrong way. Eight years ago when I was working, rape investigations were not piled up. This is now being done, because there is a lack of resources within the police. It needs to be improved, and I wonder: How will the government make sure that crimes against children and rapes against children are investigated on time?
i-7902612779595edc-24	Mr President, I would like to First of all, we can see that there are no supplementary motions for this report. As previous speakers have said, it is partly also based on an announcement, in which the opposition has moved forward the positions of the factual content of the final product itself. As has been mentioned earlier, it is a question of raising the maximum sentence from one year to two years in prison and changing the characteristics of the crime so that contact with the child itself becomes a criminal act that can lead to prosecution and conviction. In a report from Brå 2013, we have been able to see that there has been a problem with many adults who contact children for sexual purposes but where the props are not fulfilled in order to proceed with prosecution and conviction. In the past, the Swedish Democrats have also pushed many issues in relation to sexual offences against children, and that is perhaps not the only reason why we choose to take the debate in this case. Sexual crimes against children are something that affects many people in depth, and there are a lot of regrettable cases where children have fallen wrong in the judicial system, you might say. The justice system has not been able to meet the expectations that have been raised when one has been subjected to various sexual crimes. In the past, we have proposed the removal of financial penalties from many different sexual offences which today include fines, which can be equated, for example, with a crime such as littering in terms of the penalty value. The Swedish democrats have thus tried in several contexts to advance the positions of the restoration and to increase the penalties for sexual crimes against children. We are therefore very pleased that the government has listened to the position that the opposition through the Swedish Democrats and the Alliance has made clear that the maximum penalty should be changed as well as the props for the crime. I do not have much more to add, but I would finally like to say that we support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-7902612779595edc-31	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Moderate and Center Party's reservation 1 in the report. The Discrimination Act came into effect during the year of the Alliance Government. After a number of years of discussion, no Social Democratic government had the energy to submit a proposal to the Riksdag. But the Alliance did. It may be good to be reminded of that in today's debate. What we are going to discuss today is the amendment to the Discrimination Act, which removes the exemption on discrimination for lack of accessibility for companies employing fewer than ten workers if the company provides goods and services to the public. We Moderates believe in freedom for all people. Gender, class or if you have a disability should not matter or be an obstacle to what you want to become or what you should do. In Sweden, everyone should have the opportunity to participate in society based on their own conditions. A disability should not limit the possibilities for those who can and want to work to contribute based on their ability. For those who, due to a disability, do not have the opportunity to participate in working life at all, we naturally want to increase the opportunities for meaningful daily employment based on our own wishes and conditions. Before even discussing the issue of removing an exemption from the Non-Discrimination Act, we believe that facts should be produced about what it will mean for small businesses. Will this lead to increased costs and administrative burden for small businesses? That is why we from the Moderates believe that we should reject the bill as it stands now and first carry out an impact assessment of what a removal means. The Anti-Discrimination Act should also be evaluated before any changes are made to it. Will this increase accessibility for people with disabilities? There is also a lack of discussion on alternative solutions that can lead to better accessibility. The propriety provides the conditions for the requirements to be made to be relevant and justified. This also leads to uncertainty as to where the limit should be drawn. What adjustments will be required? Future legal costs may also be a heavy expense for our small businesses. It is uncertainty, Mr President, which is the biggest nightmare of small business. Today there are about 1.2 million companies in Sweden. 97% of them are small businesses. Of course, not all these goods and services are provided to the public, but we are talking about the small tobacco store, the convenience store and the hairdresser. In this pulpit in the Swedish Parliament, all parties, I dare say, are supposed to reduce the regulatory burden on small companies. However, very little is done in practice. We do not know whether this bill too will make it more complicated to become an entrepreneur or to remain an entrepreneur.
i-7902612779595edc-41	Mr President, I would like to I'm not gonna rap, despite Grotesco's latest musical. On the other hand, I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservations 2 and 3 from the Swedish Democrats. We are dealing, as we have just heard here, with a proposal to extend protection against discrimination in the form of lack of accessibility. At the outset, it can be noted that those who look at these issues more closely usually say that there are no disabilities or disabilities until society creates them. It is how we shape our society that makes it more difficult in certain situations to take full part of society. Having said that, it is of course the case that we should strive to avoid all forms of restrictions which are unjustified and which result from the fact that we have not taken into account the conditions of each individual. It is therefore also the view of the Swedish Democrats that all companies should be subject to the current ban on discrimination. But as it is right here and now, we share the analysis just presented by the Moderates, namely that the consequences have not been sufficiently investigated. The exception that exists for companies with fewer than ten employees came about for a reason, and although the law has now been tested in practice, it has only covered the larger companies that are not affected by the potentially difficult questions of interpretation and court costs that hit smaller companies considerably harder. On the other hand, the Swedish Democrats have their own reservation instead of sharing the joint reservation from the Moderates and the Center Party, and it is because we really want to go further when investigating the issue. Instead of just carrying out an impact assessment on how the proposal might affect smaller companies, we also want it to be clear that the study already looks at what possible measures could be taken to facilitate the adaptation of small businesses to improve accessibility. I am convinced that such an investigation leading to a legislative proposal where such opportunities exist would actually go beyond the legislative proposal that is currently on the table. We are now hiding behind a reasonable assessment, namely that small businesses will not be hit so hard because they do not have to change what is too difficult to change. With our proposal, we can really make a difference to those who are being shut out today. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to say a few words about our second reservation, which is about a propriety of duration. When the Anti-Discrimination Act was last dealt with and adopted the current form, we, together with the Left Party, had highlighted that the requirement for a lasting relationship with the companies notified for discrimination should be removed. It will be strange to require a lasting relationship with someone with whom, by definition, one cannot have a proper relationship, because he has not met the requirements of accessibility. Therefore, we have chosen to include that if you are still going to review and investigate how the law is going to develop in order to better fulfil your purpose, you should also take the opportunity to look at how the durability properties have been struck and how it can be removed. I would like to take this opportunity to give a pass to the special opinion of the Left Party and of Mr Ali, which shows that there has not been a motion to this end and therefore does not support such a proposal here and now. There is a reservation about the very props of duration. You are welcome to support it.
i-7902612779595edc-49	Mr President, I would like to Measures aimed at preventing and combating discrimination are fundamental in a democracy, and improved accessibility for people with disabilities is a prerequisite for achieving participation and equality in society. There are benefits to be made both at individual level and for society as a whole. The Center Party wants legislation that contributes to an accessible society for all. This includes accessibility to public authorities, institutions, businesses and other parts of society. Accessibility needs to be kept under constant review by companies and public authorities, and shortcomings need to be addressed. We see accessibility as something that should include smaller companies in the long term, but without an impact assessment or developed practice as a basis for the government's proposal, the commitment for small businesses will not be transparent. That is why we are proposing a rejection of the government proposal today and a declaration that the consequences must be analysed in order to bring about legislation that is better placed to become sharp. I ask you to accept reservation 1. As the current rule is formulated in the Non-Discrimination Act, it is assessments in each individual case that must be made before a company can decide whether or not a measure has to be taken. Guiding practices are lacking and the preparatory work contains only general references to the economic and practical conditions of the operator and the duration and extent of the relationship between the individual and the operator. The exact same difficulty will also be faced by people with functional variations, i.e. to assess whether an obstacle remains within the reasonableness requirements or not before the notification can be made and continued. The current exemption for small companies in the Non-Discrimination Act also reflects the fact that it is a complex assessment that needs to be made. The exemption is justified by the fact that the administrative burden on small enterprises should not increase, and the Center Party believes that this argument should continue to weigh heavily and remain in place. The propriety provides the conditions for the requirements to be relevant and justified, which on one side is a good entrance. On the other hand, however, the same properties present uncertainty and difficulty in predicting where the limit will be drawn for which adjustments will be required or what adjustments persons with functional variations may require. Small businesses are very sensitive to these types of difficult-to-assess obligations to take action and the costs that they may incur if a decision turns out to be wrong. It should also be pointed out that there are a large number of functional variations that may require different types of measures and that it is not possible to assess the costs that the legislation may entail. Similarly, different types of functional variations and the adjustments they require may go against each other, i.e. an adaptation for one group then becomes a deterioration for another group. The Center Party considers that the assessment as to whether the entrepreneur should take action is so difficult that it does not meet the essential requirements of predictability and clarity. There is simply a lack of sufficient means to determine in advance what is discriminatory. Instead, that question must be decided by a court afterwards. The Swedish Bar Association points out in its referral that the costs that may arise for adapting to the proposal are more burdensome for smaller companies than for larger ones. Mr President, I would like to What, then, do I and a number of consultation bodies not see as predictable or clear? I read from the bill: A first condition is that an individual with a disability is disadvantaged. A further condition is that the operator has not taken accessibility-creating measures. Furthermore, the criterion of comparable situation needs to be met. This means that a comparison should be made between the situation of a person with a disability and the situation of others who do not have the current disability. For a fair comparison to be made, the persons compared must be in a comparable situation. If, in the individual case, it can be considered reasonable and natural for different individuals to be treated equally, these are in a comparable situation. .....................................................
i-7902612779595edc-55	The necessary accessibility measures are therefore those which are reasonable on the basis of legal and regulatory accessibility requirements and taking into account the economic and practical conditions, the duration and extent of the relationship or contact between the operator and the individual and other relevant circumstances. ..................................................... As an additional knob, the following is added: The appropriate measures may be determined by an overall assessment on a case-by-case basis. ..................................................... I believe that it is not simply to understand what efforts an entrepreneur must or should do. The majority of the committee, in its wisdom, responds to my fears that it is difficult to quantify and calculate the costs that may arise because they depend on factors such as pre-knowledge, creativity in resolving emerging situations and the extent of contacts with people with different disabilities. According to the Government, the equity assessment means that the measures that can be considered for small enterprises are of a simple nature. The Government further argues that it has not been established that the ban has had a burdensome impact on the operators covered today. According to the Government, the administrative costs that may arise can mainly be expected to arise initially when routines and working methods are reviewed in relation to the ban. The Government further argues that the measures that can be considered are already largely taken care of by the services that companies generally and in their own interest provide to their customers, which, according to the Government, suggests that the changes can be expected to be marginal. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to On one side, the government is hitting the big drum because things are happening. On the other hand, we are very vague about what it means and, moreover, quite straight about the fact that it really does not mean anything at all. And the whole responsibility is placed on someone else. The obligation to adapt premises and activities may lead to high costs for the individual trader who risks the activities of small enterprises. It is likely that the risk of costs will be the greatest revenge. It does not create a good condition for the law to make a practical difference in everyday life for people with functional variations. When the requirements and consequences are not illuminated before the law is passed, it is difficult for those with functional variation to know what falls under the concepts of comparability, fairness and reasonableness. The Centre Party therefore lacks an analysis showing the consequences of extended protection against discrimination for companies with fewer than 10 employees. Before a change of this type takes place, we need to know the consequences it has for companies, employees and people with functional variations – if you really want the law to make a difference!
i-7902612779595edc-64	Mr President, I would like to We are debating today the report on extended protection against discrimination in the form of lack of accessibility. I support the proposal and reject the reservations. I would like to remind Erik Andersson that the Parliament made an announcement on this issue in the Parliamentary year 2011/12, which you voted against. That's what's behind this law. Annika Qarlsson criticises the current legislation and says that it is not sufficiently clear what the consequences of the change are for companies with fewer than ten employees. However, the current legislation, which her party has been involved in producing, affects companies with 11 and 12 employees today. There's not much difference. Today, there is an exception in the Discrimination Act for companies with fewer than ten employees. When the Parliament decided on the Act in 2014, we reserved ourselves against this exception, which we meant made the law toothless. According to statistics, in goods and services, enterprises with fewer than 10 employees account for over 90% of all enterprises in these sectors. It can be about shops, hairdressers and restaurants. In August of this year, the Government presented proposals that also require companies with fewer than ten employees to be subject to accessibility requirements for people with disabilities. It is companies that many people meet in their daily lives, and the committee therefore believes that this amendment of the law is important in order to increase equality and participation in society. The amendment is proposed to take effect on 1 May 2018. I would also like to remind you that the Law Council had nothing to recall – in the first place if it were to be criticised against the legislation. The amendment increases the protection of persons with disabilities from discrimination. One could say that the movement of functional variation is not entirely satisfied. You wish for more. I can understand that to some extent, but I think this is a good step along the way. We also meet criticism from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. The last week has shown that solidarity is not the strongest side of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and that you only think about profit for yourself, not what profit could be for other people in society. The objectives of disability policy are a community based on diversity, that society is designed to ensure that people with disabilities of all ages are fully involved in social life and equality in living conditions for girls, boys, women and men with disabilities. Work will focus on identifying and removing barriers to full participation in society for all people with disabilities, preventing and combating discrimination and creating the conditions for independence and self-determination. The point of the Non-Discrimination Act is to safeguard the principle of equal value for all and everyone's right to be treated as individuals on equal terms. In the debate in 2014, Ann-Christin Ahlberg from the Social Democrats stressed the importance of being able to live their lives to the full. I think this is still the case. Now we are saying that this should apply to companies with fewer than ten employees because it is the people you meet in everyday life. A society that safeguards the equal value of all people is a society that gives everyone the opportunity to develop according to their individual characteristics and conditions and according to their own ability and choices. Removing the exemption for companies with fewer than 10 workers contributes to a more comprehensive protection against discrimination than is the case if the exemption persists. The work that is being done to improve accessibility on a voluntary basis is, of course, good. However, it is important to bear in mind that this legislation gives individuals the possibility of redress in the event of a disadvantage. We believe it is important for the proposed amendment to be evaluated to see how it works, both for companies and for people with disabilities. The committee has therefore asked the government to evaluate the amendment of the law.
i-7902612779595edc-78	Mr President, I would like to Eva-Lena Jansson mentioned my criticism. Yes, we have criticisms of the fact that the amendment is being implemented without having a basis that enables small businesses to take the necessary measures and also makes it clear to people with disabilities what they can demand and when they can ask for action to be taken. The lack of clarity in what we are going to decide on this afternoon is therefore two-way. The criticism I have is directed in both directions. When we introduced the law with the exception of companies with up to ten employees, it was because large companies have more opportunity to take action, and they have time to build up a practice. Once we introduce it to small businesses, they should know what kind of requirements may be imposed on their businesses. Now it has not grown up any practice. When we made the decision, there were demands from the opposition to work it out so that they knew what consequences it had for the companies. There is also no basis for this legislation, and that is what we are criticising – we are not giving small businesses the opportunity to take the measures that we know need to be done. It also creates a lack of clarity towards those who want to be able to enter the shops or take part in the services or services. What can we demand? Will it be necessary to take it all the way to court to get that right instead of having stated what demands can be made? That is why the risk is great, especially in view of the committee's position. This is toned down and says that it will not take so much, do so much or be so much. Should we adopt a law today that for many feels costly but then has no effect?
i-7902612779595edc-83	Mr President, I would like to The rhetorical question that arises is whether those with functional variations know what kind of requirements they can impose on enterprises with twelve employees. Annika Qarlsson says that it is more difficult for people with functional variations to know what kind of requirements can be made for companies with fewer than ten employees but not for companies with more than ten employees. I would like to ask Annika Qarlsson a question. In the debate in 2014, she said this: Of course, we see nothing in the long term but that it should apply without exception. What does that mean in the long run?
i-7902612779595edc-85	Mr President, I would like to That is what I was trying to describe in my speech, and that is what we are describing in our motion: that we produce a statement of impact that provides clear guidelines and a clearer framework for what can be demanded of and what expectations you can have of companies. Is it easier for a company with 12 employees than for one with 10 employees? No, of course it's not. But many times you have an organization with you that can help in those parts, and when it comes to the company you have much more opportunities to meet the requirements and do the conversions that are needed in that case. That is why we saw it as a way forward to ensure that practices could develop. Now we have seen that this is not happening, and I think that before we introduce it to the other companies, we need to develop further guidelines for what it actually means. I return to the majority's view that this should be legislation that means something and would like to market it so against the movement of functional variation – as a major step forward. But the answer is toned down and says that it will not matter so much. It will not be so expensive, it will not be so dangerous, it will not be so great demands and so on. What exactly does the law mean? There are a little conflicting things in one part and in the other part. What really is behind the proposal? How sharp is that?
i-7902612779595edc-89	Mr President, I would like to The reason why we are making decisions on this today is that there is a broad majority in Parliament. I am pleased that both the Christian Democrats and the Liberals are also behind this legislation. This shows, of course, that we want to take steps forward when it comes to people with functional variations having access and a good life. What really is behind this? Yes, it is the view of the equal and equal value of all men. I think that what we are now deciding on is also to appoint the government to evaluate the law. I think that is a good thing, and I think it is important that we make this decision today on the basis of what we have said. But what is growing in the debate is a discussion about you in the Center Party and the Moderates saying that it is so expensive for companies. At the same time, Annika Qarlsson says that it probably doesn't really matter that we do this. I think it will eventually turn out that companies understand that people with functional variations are also welcome consumers, customers and guests at restaurants, at hairdressers and in shops and that companies realise that good accessibility for everyone is good for everyone. I therefore welcome this legislation.
i-7902612779595edc-92	Mr President, I would like to I was obliged to ask for a reply on the grounds that the anti-discrimination law came about under an alliance government. It has certainly been discussed for 20 years to bring together all the different legislations into a law of discrimination, but those who succeeded in this were an alliance government. It was not after a long holding of power by social democratic governments that a law of discrimination was tabled and increased rights. For an entrepreneur, the worst thing is the uncertainty that is created: what should be done and not done? That is why we believe that we should investigate, make an impact statement and see what the anti-discrimination law has done. That's what's at the bottom of it. The Swedish Bar Association even says that this can lead to more complaints to the Discrimination Ombudsman, which can lead to increased court costs. It is difficult for business to know what it takes to meet the requirements of the law. But I have a question for Eva-Lena Jansson from the Social Democrats: If you follow current laws and regulations in Sweden and pay your taxes, is it immoral? You raised the issue of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. I think it is wrong for you to raise that issue in this debate, and I just want to highlight it. There are other people close to Eva-Lena Jansson who, for example, live on a government pension and ensure that the proceeds come to a company. I think that is morally wrong.
i-7902612779595edc-97	Mr President, I would like to I think we should stick to this debate. I don't think Erik Andersson has anything to gain from the tax debate. We can look at what the former Prime Minister is doing today, and also the former Minister of Finance. So we're not going to have that discussion. But if we are going to discuss what Erik Andersson still raises, about the cost of companies, I think this: In the previous debate the bourgeois parties also had a reservation. I don't know if you've forgotten. That's when you said that if you didn't take them away, you'd go to private health centres. Perhaps Erik Andersson has forgotten – he did not put in the Riksdag then, sorry! It's the same ghost that you're scared of: It's going to go to hell for the entrepreneurs! The Christian Democrats and the Liberals have realised that it will not. So I don't really know why Erik Andersson is so afraid to give people with disabilities an opportunity to actually get accessibility in society.
i-7902612779595edc-100	Mr President, I would like to It was very fortunate that I did not sit in Parliament then, because I do not think that one should sit too long in Parliament. But if we say this: Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, Visita, Svensk Handel, Företagets Regrettsrådet, Företagsförbundet, Småföretagarnas Riksförbund – all of them reject this bill because of the uncertainty. When it comes to health care centres, they have probably made it because they usually rent from another property owner, who ensures that the accessibility requirements are met. Then we have a planning and construction law, and in the case of new construction, the accessibility rules contained in it must be followed. What we are concerned about is mainly uncertainty for companies. You don't know if you can get sued and get different court costs. At the same time, this law has not been evaluated, and we have no impact assessment. It is simply said that it is believed that the number of notifications may increase. The report states that up to now there have been some 230 complaints to the Ombudsman for Discrimination, but it is not known. The vast majority of entrepreneurs want as many people as possible to come to their store and, of course, try to make it as accessible as possible. But it is the uncertainty that is very difficult to deal with.
i-7902612779595edc-104	Mr President, I would like to Yes, there is uncertainty, also for people with functional variations: Should they be able to have lunch out in the city or get into the store? If we have set objectives for disability policy and have a community based on diversity, I think it is important for society to be designed so that people with disabilities also have accessibility. This is, in fact, superior on this issue. That's why we make decisions. We have a broad political majority behind this proposal. I am proud that we have this proposal on the table now and can take a decision on it today, and that we are doing it across block borders. It also shows that there is a large majority in favour of these issues and that we think it is important. With that, Mr President, I thank you for the debate.
i-7902612779595edc-106	Mr President, I would like to It is a pleasure and a pleasure to be able to stand here today in favour of the committee's proposal in the AU3 report and, therefore, in favour of the government proposal to extend protection against discrimination in the form of lack of accessibility. So, as we have been discussing, what is proposed in the proposal is to abolish one of the exceptions that now exists from the ban on discrimination on the said grounds – the exception that exists in the area of goods and services for companies with fewer than ten employees. As I said, on the Left side we welcome this enlargement. We believe that the exception that exists today, which makes the vast majority of the businesses that people have to deal with on a daily basis not subject to the rules of discrimination on accessibility, is illogical and unfortunate. Of course, the requirements for smaller businesses should also be reasonable, so there is no evidence that this will have absurd or unreasonable consequences or burdensome effects on the companies concerned. It is built into the law's very construction that there should be a reasonableness assessment. This was something that we in the Left Party pointed out and exercised about already in the treatment of the basic bill, Lack of accessibility as a form of discrimination, which was dealt with by the Riksdag before the 2014 elections. We pointed out at the time that, in addition to the problem of principle, the legislator's statement that some people may discriminate regardless of the other conditions, there was also another problematic signal effect, namely that greater accessibility is clearly regarded as a cost and an inconvenience. But having accessibility as a starting point is an important perspective in all our social relationships. Then everyone needs to play their part, to think about how to organize their own activities and to be reminded that what is excluded can actually be just discriminatory. Increased accessibility can actually provide more customers and be an opportunity, not a threat, even for smaller companies. The former government, which submitted the bill in 2014, nevertheless had this and other exceptions. We have also heard in the debate that two of the previous government parties, the Moderates and the Center Party, still do not want to strengthen the law and therefore propose that the bill be rejected in its entirety. I find that boring. The Swedish democrats, of course, take the same position, and the argument, as we have heard, is rather thin and weak. An idea of the regulatory burden is presented against the actual need to increase accessibility and have a law that is in principle logical and coherent. There are some arguments that it is tricky and difficult and that we should evaluate the law before we have adopted it, although we have a law that has applied to over ten employees and has not produced any unreasonable consequences. If we maintain very strongly that there will be uncertainty if we do not specify in the legislation all the situations that may arise in the myriad of relationships between people and companies that may exist, then that is, of course, an argument against almost any legislation of this kind. It is clear that, in the end, it is often an issue of assessment; it does not come from that. However, there is no indication that it will be very strange to remove the exemption for companies with between one and ten employees. The Swedish Democrats want to reject the bill and do not want to go in a more progressive direction. In the proposal that is being rejected, there is a proposal that has been examined and put forward in a sharp manner on the opt-out. In this, the Swedish Democrats have thrown in a motion to remove another exception that is not dealt with in the bill. This concerns the question of duration as part of the reasonableness assessment. As many in this House know, this is quite typical of the way the Swedish democrats deal with these issues and put the political game ahead of substance. I want to say something about duration. The Left Party had, in its 2014 bill, a motion that this props should be used for a reasonable assessment. We meant then and we now believe that it is important that traders try to think into the situation for people with different types of functional variations and do what they can and what is reasonable for their business to be available. What is fundamental in the process of creating an accessible society is that it not only resolves problems when they have arisen and perhaps been noticed, but also constantly tries to act consciously and preventively. But this is not the theme of the current bill, and we have therefore chosen not to write a follow-up motion. We will come back to the issue in another appropriate context as well as to other sharpenings that we raised and explained when the law came into force and possibly new requirements that are brought up to date by the current application. Today, I am happy to support the proposal.
i-7902612779595edc-119	Mr President, I would like to There was a lot there. I can point out at the outset that we do not have the same reservation as the Moderates and the Center Party. We state that all companies should of course be included, but we also focus on the fact that we should look at how we can help smaller companies and look at what we can do to make the necessary changes so that it becomes an effect. It has been said in previous shifts, and I raised it in the speaker's chair: as it is right now, it is hiding behind it with the propriety of the propriety, this will not have any major consequences for the companies. But then, in principle, it is not a far-reaching piece of legislation, and it will not have so many effects. If you want to have effects, you should rather focus on how we make society better and face the problems, not on how we criminalise those who may want well but who do not succeed. However, that is not why I asked for a reply, but, of course, the matter of duration, in which we actually have the same approach. In his speech, Ali Esbati said that the Swedish Democrats are engaged in political games instead of substance. But, Mr President, what is the political game if not to refuse to support a policy that you actually agree with just because it is not you who has brought the motion, but another party?
i-7902612779595edc-122	Mr President, I would like to I have read the Swedish Democrats' reservation. It is precisely in this case that we have both read it. It is not always the case with the reservations of the Swedish Democrats that you have read them yourself. I would like to point out that the Swedish Democrats' reservation is that the bill should be rejected, as the Moderates and the Center Party propose. Then, for reasons that may be difficult to explain, they have chosen not to have the same reservation as the Center Party and the Moderates in that case. I can understand this, but yet you want to defuse the sharp and well-examined bill, Paula Bieler. You say you're supposed to help people in different ways. I'm sure you can, but if the law isn't there, you can't help them with it. That is what you propose. As far as the duration of the proposal is concerned, it is an issue that we proposed when the proposal was presented before the 2014 elections. I was the one who was involved in that debate, and the Swedish Democrats then joined the reservation. You are free to do what you want in Parliament's Chamber. In this case, we have made the clear assessment that there is a proposal about a certain matter, and then we have raised motions on that matter. If the Swedish Democrats choose to stir up motions about something else, it is free for them to do so. I feel no compulsion whatsoever to join a policy put forward by the Swedish Democrats, and I will stand by that.
i-7902612779595edc-126	Mr President, I would like to As far as I am aware, it is not the individual parties but the Chambers and Parliament that decide whether or not a motion falls within the scope of the matter. Obviously, we have had to put forward a proposal to review this particular prop and remove the opt-out. It therefore falls within the scope of the case. I would like to point out that I find it extremely strange to accuse me of engaging in political games when it is not me who chooses to focus on who makes proposals instead of what the proposals contain. Obviously, we want the same thing here. I see no problem with the fact that the Left Party, in this case, could have supported the bill as a whole and made it go through and, at the same time, wanted to make an announcement that the exception that exists should be removed as soon as possible. It is perfectly natural to do so in my world, but not in the Left Party. Yes, we believe that the law, as it is at present, should not evolve in the way proposed in the bill. We believe that it is not sufficiently clear what the consequences of this are and how it will actually hit both smaller companies, because it refers to the experience that is scarcely there for the larger companies that have greater opportunities, and to those who want a relationship with smaller companies. As we have heard in previous debates, it is unclear what this means. My opinion is that it is better to focus on how we build a better society and fix the problems in substance than on how we should blame ourselves on others, point the finger and say that they have not followed through on this, unless we should even tell them how to pursue it and what it will mean for them. It is therefore our opinion that we should examine both the impact that this may have on companies and how we can help them to make the necessary changes in their business, their premises or what it may be so that an actual improvement in accessibility can be achieved rather than placard politics that blame others, point the finger and say that they have not done their job, when we do not even tell them what to do properly.
i-7902612779595edc-132	Mr President, I would like to I pointed out what was clear also in the speech, namely the rather widespread hypocrisy of the Swedish democrats' positions on this issue. Here is a concrete proposal to tighten up the law, but you do not want to do so, with the same weak and strange arguments as the Moderates and the Center Party. Instead, we want, so to speak, to blur away the position by throwing in another motion. I do not want to play this game to help the Swedish democrats to appear in a better light on this issue. I believe that it is difficult for the Swedish democrats to do this, because they come from a party whose very basic system is in contradiction with what is being tried to solve with this law and which the disability movement runs, namely the equal value of all people.
i-7902612779595edc-135	Mr President, I would like to On behalf of the Liberals, I would like to support this proposal. We believe in our party – we have been fighting for this for a long time – that the accessibility of our society must be increased for all citizens. People who have a disability or disability should be able to live a life that is just the same as everyone's lives. It is about people's equal value and dignity. It is a kind of temperature meter for how our society views people who do not really have the same opportunities in their everyday lives as most people have. This means that we in our party think that this legislation is reasonable. There are, of course, a number of different trade-offs to be made, especially when it comes to smaller companies that do not always have the resources at their disposal. It can be said that this legislation is basically based on three parts. They shall be reasonable measures. There shall be a duration. You can't just go into a store that you've never visited before in a completely different city than the one you live in and argue some kind of durability argument for the store to install a ramp, for example, but it's about duration of a different kind. The third part is that this should then be evaluated. There must be reasonable measures, there must be a duration and the law must be evaluated to see what impact it has, not only on smaller traders, but also, of course, on people who experience a lack of accessibility. For example, has it been possible to obtain redress if one should be entitled to it? We believe that these are reasonable balances on our part. I support the proposal in the report. It also has to do with the fact that companies with fewer than ten employees are often companies that people meet in their daily lives. It can be about shops, a small dental clinic or other smaller businesses that you meet in your everyday life. It is, of course, the case that the problems of lack of accessibility also need to be addressed in those activities. Reasonable and balanced legislation means that the costs and measures that need to be taken for a small trader must be reasonable. Of course, a small company cannot be imposed completely draconianly increased costs that are unjustified. I guess we all understand that we can't do that. If this should be the case, it may be brought to the attention of the courts and the evaluation of the legislation.
i-7902612779595edc-142	Mr President, I would like to I thought I would talk about duration only with the Left Party, but now Fredrik Malm himself raised this in his speech, and I feel I have to react. Fredrik Malm says that you should not be able to claim that you have a lack of accessibility when you are on the road and cannot visit certain stores. It's a very strange argument for me. Should you be locked to live in one place all your life and not be able to travel? In the case of one's own place of residence, it is still necessary to get into the store in question in order to have a lasting relationship with it. I and my party's other representatives find it extremely difficult to understand how this law can have any effect if it is required to have a lasting relationship in order to be able to say: now you discriminate against me, because I do not have access to your goods and services. In that case, you can't have a lasting relationship at all. Apparently Fredrik Malm does not even think that it is a reasonable requirement to be able to have accessibility around society, but it should be a question of visiting a specific place, shopping in a specific store or using a specific service. I have to ask how this is discussed.
i-7902612779595edc-146	Mr President, I would like to I apologise if I may have put it a little bit tangled in my speech. Of course, a visit somewhere can mean being exposed to a lack of accessibility that can be discrimination under our current legislation or under our new legislation. However, it is important that the question of duration is nevertheless part of the overall assessment of what is a lack of accessibility, I think. I can give you some examples. An employment procedure involves a different degree of duration. If you go to a clinic regularly and are enrolled there, it is clear that you can make higher demands on that trader. The same applies to a store located in the property in which you live. It is reasonable, then, that it gives an even greater weight in an overall assessment of whether a person is exposed to a lack of accessibility. My view is that such reasoning is not unreasonable.
i-7902612779595edc-147	Mr President, I would like to But even if it is a shop in the same property or a prospective employer, you do not have a lasting relationship with them, but you may hope to get it. As the law is written right now, it is surely that one should already have a lasting relationship. I still find this very strange. But it is good that Fredrik Malm at least thinks that there should be accessibility everywhere in the country, not only where the person lives, and that it should be seen as discrimination even if it is only a single visit at some point. I hope that we will come back to review, extend and improve legislation in the future. Having said that, I would like to take the opportunity to also ask Fredrik Malm what you really think the amendment will fix and change. The preparatory work and proposal texts place a great deal of emphasis on the fairness assessment and that this will not mean any major changes for small businesses. I think most people here realize that entrepreneurs want customers and relationships. What they can do, they've probably already done. Moreover, if a fair assessment is applied, the impact of the legislation will not be significant. It is in any case my assessment, and I also interpret the preparatory work and the proposals as being the consequence. That is why I propose not only to investigate the consequences of the law on companies but also to facilitate real changes that it may not be reasonable to require according to today's assessments, because it is too difficult for a small company to implement them alone. What we could do is steer, facilitate, help and create standards, perhaps through targeted grants or something else, in order to increase real accessibility – instead of the placard policy that I would say the rest of the parties are doing.
i-7902612779595edc-150	Mr President, I would like to Now it becomes somewhat unclear. Paula Bieler says that she wishes you to come back to Parliament with a proposal for an extension of legislation. But now you're calling for the whole thing to be rejected, Paula Bieler. Yet you want even more. On the one hand, you want to reject this change, and on the other hand, you want an extension of legislation in the next line. Now Paula Bieler has no more line, but to me this seems a little strange. Furthermore, Mr President, it is a little surprising when we are accused of placard politics. Paula Bieler stood in the speaker's chair and said: We do not want legislation – instead, we think it is important that we can build a better society. But, Paula Bieler, a better society is built by pressing buttons in this hall. We build society by law. Land will be built by law. Land will be built with a vote, we can also say. I think it is difficult to build a better society if we cannot use the legislative tool. The placard politics and fluffy that Paula Bieler criticises, she stands for herself. Liberals want balanced and reasonable legislation. Measures shall be proportionate. Of course, it should not impose entirely unreasonable and draconian costs on smaller traders. However, reasonable measures should be taken to ensure accessibility for all people in our society, including people with disabilities. In a decent, modern and well-developed society like Sweden, it is reasonable that we have that ambition and that we ensure that people who do not have access can get redress in some cases.
i-7902612779595edc-153	Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats have supported the proposal to amend the Non-Discrimination Act. The amendment extends protection against discrimination in the form of lack of accessibility. Previous exemptions for companies with fewer than 10 workers are removed. It is important that lack of accessibility is taken seriously. The Christian Democrats believe that the degree of disability is not static but is partly a result of society's willingness and ability to meet people with disabilities. In fact, a disability becomes a disability only when society does not compensate the individual for the shortcomings. I have already raised motions here in Parliament in previous terms on the need for legislation that says that lack of accessibility should be seen as discrimination. 1.8 million people in Sweden live with disabilities. Then it is very important that the lack of accessibility that excludes people with disabilities changes. One should not be excluded from different areas of society. At some point persons with disabilities could not even get to certain polling stations. This, Mr President, is, of course, not worthy of a modern society. It was therefore gratifying that the Alliance amended the Discrimination Act in 2009. Then came another law, on accessibility requirements for companies, which came into force in 2015. But since many saw the latter law as very extensive, an exception was made for smaller companies. Entrepreneurs thought that they could incur unreasonable costs of re-building in order to increase accessibility. Now this law has been in force for a few years, and we think it is reasonable to now try that even small companies should be subject to the requirement of accessibility. According to the Discrimination Ombudsman, 280 complaints were received in 2015 in connection with the new Act. Several concerned difficulties in accessing public documents. It does not seem that the law has had a significant impact on companies. As regards the risk that small businessmen will not be able to afford to make premises more accessible, there is, as has already been mentioned here in the debate, a propriety element in the law with regard to economic and practical conditions. This should be sufficient to ensure that no company is hit too hard because of the measures that may need to be taken to improve accessibility. In the United Kingdom, the United States, Ireland, Australia and Norway there is similar legislation, which is to some extent even more far-reaching, so I do not think that there will be any major problems for companies to comply with the new law. Rather, many entrepreneurs view it as an asset to show that they are taking social responsibility. They also want more customers, and availability is therefore an asset in their marketing. When the consultation bodies have had to assess the possible consequences of the proposed law, difficulties have arisen in interpreting, on the basis of current legislation, what is reasonable to do in order to take reasonable accessibility measures. There is no developmental practice, and since 90% of all businesses are currently not covered by the legislation, it is difficult to assess the consequences of the proposed law. No evaluation of the functioning of the current law has been made, even though the Social Democrats called for this earlier, when the Alliance presented its proposal. However, proposals are now being made for a law, and we Christian Democrats have chosen to endorse this strengthening of the law. I am pleased, Mr President, that the majority of the committee has chosen to partially approve my motion to evaluate this law, even if it does not state when this is to happen. I have said that I think it should happen within three years. The evaluation should show how both companies and persons with disabilities are affected by the law. The Minister is here today, and I hope she can say that she, too, is looking forward to an evaluation in the not too distant future.
i-7902612779595edc-167	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for the opportunity to be in this House today and to debate a proposal for political change that the government has fought for. Sweden should be a country free of discrimination. That is our goal and our lofty but self-evident ambition. In Sweden, you should not be judged by who you love, what skin color you have or whether you have a functional variation. Sweden should stick together, and there should be room for everyone. Comprehensive and effective anti-discrimination legislation, with few exceptions, is a tool for building Sweden as we want it to be. Mr President, I would like to It was the bourgeois government that, during the previous term of office, proposed that inaccessibility should be a form of discrimination. This reform entered into force in 2015, and since then, traders with more than 10 employees have been legally required to take reasonable accessibility measures. The fact that the previous government took the step of introducing this legislation is a good thing. Today we are building on that step. The fact that the government is now proposing to remove the exception in the legislation means that we are strengthening the effectiveness of anti-discrimination legislation. It becomes clearer to everyone what applies. More actors will take accessibility measures, and Sweden will become a more accessible country. People with functional variations have better opportunities to live their lives in freedom. I am proud that this proposal has been submitted to the Swedish Parliament and that more parties in the Riksdag are joining it. Mr President, I would like to In a short time we have seen that current legislation has helped to achieve the goal of a society free from discrimination. The discrimination ombudsman, who supervises the legislation, points to the clear effect of the legislation. According to the DO, existing legislation has led to an increased interest in taking accessibility measures at the level of the companies concerned today. Among the notifications received in 2015 are two cases that I would like to draw attention to. In May, the first judgment on lack of accessibility was delivered. The Court considered that a student in grade 4 had been discriminated against because the school had not taken reasonable measures to increase the accessibility of the school. It was about flaws regarding ramps, resting planes and door openers. To gain access to the school's premises, the student needed help from peers or staff. The student was dependent on this and was therefore not in a situation comparable to that of non-disabled students. In October, the second judgment came. The Court found that there was no discrimination when a university terminated an ongoing recruitment on the basis of the adjustment measures that would be required to be able to employ an applicant who is deaf. It was found that the measures that would be required could not be considered appropriate, inter alia as interpreting support would be required. The Court found that although the university is a large employer with a large staff budget, the adjustment measures would not be reasonable. These two legal cases point to an important part of the legislation, namely that the measures should be fair. When deciding which measures are reasonable, a number of aspects must be included in the assessment, such as the economic conditions of the activity and the sustainability of the relationship between the parties. The measures to be taken are of a simpler nature. What does that mean? This means, for example, that the taxi driver helps to put the bag in the car for those who cannot, or that the staff at the restaurant help to read the menu to those who find it difficult to see. These measures are simple in themselves, but they can play an important role as a whole, especially for people with disabilities and their opportunities to participate in society. Mr President, I would like to Around Sweden there are many traders who know that an inclusive and accessible society is something that we all benefit from. When the Swedish Consumer Agency conducted a survey on store managers' views on accessibility, very positive results were found. The Swedish Consumer Agency conducted interviews with store managers, where 90 per cent of respondents had fewer than ten employees. The conclusions are that store managers have a positive attitude to accessibility issues and that they generally believe that their store is accessible to people with different disabilities. We are past the time when companies ignored the social or ecological effects of their business. Many companies are at the forefront of the transition to a more sustainable society. We see this in Sweden, but we also see it around the world. There is still much to be done, but the picture is clear. Individual entrepreneurs also realise, of course, that they benefit from a Sweden that stays together, a Sweden where people with functional variations can live and operate in as much and as many ways as the rest of us as possible. People with functional variations are of course also customers with money to spend. In addition, an accessible public environment benefits far more people than people in wheelchairs, for example. People who have a stroller, the man in lycra who has hurt their knee, older people who have difficulty reading or getting around, the one who forgot the glasses on the nightstand in the morning – all benefit from public spaces becoming more accessible. A more accessible Sweden is a strength for all of us and for the whole of Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The government has a very ambitious anti-discrimination policy. In the 2018 budget bill, the government proposes 10 new million to DO and 15 new million to local anti-discrimination agencies. Only in January did the new legislation on active measures come into force. And now we are debating another step in the right direction, removing the opt-out in the Discrimination Act. Basically, this debate is about which Sweden we want. I am convinced that the majority of Sweden's entrepreneurs stand with the government in the question of wanting a Sweden that holds together, a Sweden where we are judged not by any particular attributes but by our whole and right as people and individuals. It is this building of society that the government is pushing with force.
i-7902612779595edc-187	Mr President, I would like to It is important for the Minister to commend the previous alliance government and the measures it managed to implement in terms of accessibility in society. I very much appreciate it, Mr President. The exemption in the Small Business Act, which is now being proposed, was added to ensure the conditions for business development and reduce the administrative burden on small businesses. At the same time, the government says that due to the reasonableness assessment to be made, it is assessed that the impact on smaller companies will not be burdensome. Basically, it is not about which society or which Sweden we want, because we agree that we want a society that is as accessible as possible and that the vast majority of companies take action. The problem here is the uncertainty for entrepreneurs what to do exactly. That is why we believe that the current legislation should be examined, a proper impact assessment carried out and a legislative proposal that makes a real difference. The Swedish Bar Association believes, of course, that it is good to strengthen accessibility but that it can be difficult for individual traders to know what it takes to meet the requirements of the law. It is also pointed out that there may be costs of adapting to the bill and that the number of complaints to the Discrimination Ombudsman may increase. Then my question, Mr President, is to the Minister: what action is a small businessman going to take?
i-7902612779595edc-192	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Andersson, for the exchange of lines! For me, it is self-evident to commend them and those who are doing something that is good. It is not a big thing, but I hope that we all take for granted that we look beyond party politics and tactics and instead try to change Sweden into an even better Sweden. As previous speakers have said in the debate, the basis for those who have already implemented measures is not large, given that the majority has been excluded. However, there is a basis from the Discrimination Ombudsman and an investigation from the Swedish Consumer Agency that shows positive reactions from large parts of the traders that will be affected and that there will probably not be extensive disruptions in their way of handling and taking on the new law, for example with regard to the fairness assessment. Erik Andersson asks for examples. Yes, it can be a variety of examples of what is needed because a reasonable assessment is made that is situational or nutritional, depending on the type of activity. But it won't be about the sausage kiosk owner along the 27th between Värnamo and Hårda – there's no hot dog kiosk there but somewhere else – needing to rebuild their whole sausage kiosk in order for people to be able to come up on a ledge. But maybe the hot dog owner can go out with the sausage, and I'm sure that's what you want because you want to sell your sausage. The examples can be many and different, but they will be situational. Our traders are ambitious and creative and will find a way to meet their customers.
i-7902612779595edc-196	Mr President, I would like to I would like to commend Mrs. Minister N. It is always nice to have a debate with you in the Chamber. When it comes to sausages, I find it very sad that most sausage kiosks in Sweden seem to disappear. I don't like that, I have to say. But to get back to the case, the vast majority of entrepreneurs are already taking these measures, because they have a sense of service and simply want more customers. That's good, and we'll accept that. But the problem is the uncertainty that they can be sued. They may do something wrong and be sued, and then there will be a trial. It is precisely this uncertainty for small businesses that we are concerned about, and a nightmare for an entrepreneur is precisely uncertainty. This is why we believe that a proper description of the current legislation should be drawn up, examined and then returned to Parliament with a proposal that might make a real difference and without this uncertainty creating such problems. Basically, all of this is being done today. Will there be any difference with the bill, Madam Minister?
i-7902612779595edc-199	Mr President, I would like to Yes, for the individual, who is now at risk of discrimination, it makes a big difference to know that you are secured by law. Earlier speakers– I don't remember who it was– used one of my favorite expressions: Land should be built with teams. And it is well worthy of our country that we have anti-discrimination legislation that does not make exceptions that particularly affect those at risk. That's where our focus should be. I can understand to some extent the uncertainty about new legislation and the measures that need to be taken, depending on the type of business you have as a trader. You need to think about how you are as accessible as possible and what you need to improve. Should you read the menu, should you have a sign and so on? Many traders have already adapted and have a positive faith. We know this, for example, from the Swedish Consumer Agency's report. But we have now given DO extra funding to help and support them. We have also had a dialogue with the business community on these issues. I know many small businesses – I come from Småland where we are good at such things, as you are in many places around the country – and know that they will find ways to make Sweden even better.
i-7902612779595edc-203	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to begin by thanking the Minister for his good speech and always pleasant tone in the debates. I'm not gonna talk hot dogs or hot dogs. I reacted a little to the examples of judgments that were highlighted as a sign that the legislation is good and satisfactory as it is written. What I reacted to in particular was the exonerating sentence, where it was not considered that there had been any kind of discrimination that a deaf person had not been hired because there was no resources for interpreters. It is certainly a good thing that companies do not suffer unreasonablely. But this is where the holes are with current legislation, and they will remain even if the law is extended. As pointed out, most people have already adapted. We live in a society where, both because it is right and because you want customers for economic reasons, you adapt to make your business as accessible as possible. Since there is constant reference to the fairness assessment, this means that no major changes should be made. That is why I am calling for a clearer impact assessment of what it is you want to tackle and for clearer efforts to be made on what can be done to improve effective accessibility. The Swedish Democrats have pushed the question that wage subsidies should be linked to an individual. If this had been the case already during the employment procedure, you might have been able to be employed, because then the employer might have been able to afford to hire interpreters. I have personally exercised that you should look at inaccessibility, not just accessibility, so that you can have a lasting relationship and dare to be in a place and know that you can safely get out of there as easily as you can get there if the accident is there. It is said that this will not have much consequences. If so, why is this change being made? Why is it not more clearly investigated what we can actually do to improve accessibility?
i-7902612779595edc-211	Mr President, I would like to I thank Paula Bieler for her reply. This will have a major impact on people at risk of discrimination. The certainty that we by law make society more accessible is a great positive consequence for people with functional variations. It can be stressed and stressed over and over again. Here, in the majority, we have a great responsibility. We create greater freedom, at least in thought, in certainty. As far as businesses are concerned, there are as many variations in tackling the new legislation as there are traders. No impact assessment can summarise the impact on everyone. But what we know from the evidence we have is that it is unlikely that revolutionary changes will be required. It is a small group because today the majority are excluded, but many say they are positive and want to meet all kinds of customers with their business. Of course, we will eventually evaluate this in order to see the consequences both for businesses and, above all, for those people who were victims of discrimination in the past. Maybe we need to do more, who knows? This will be demonstrated by the forthcoming evaluation of the new law.
i-7902612779595edc-215	Mr President, I would like to It is precisely this uncertainty that we do not come from. On the one hand, it will be better for those who have been affected because they are now given legal protection. At the same time, it is made clear that there will be little change. It's strange, and it doesn't stick together. I stand by this even though previous lines have said that we are jumping and being unreasonable because we want to reject the bill while we want to go further. We want this change and we want to go further, but we think that we should first investigate properly. How does this beat? What are the consequences? What can we do to ensure that the consequences are desirable? What can we do to facilitate adaptation in those companies that are currently unable to have sufficient accessibility? This is, above all, where it is flawed. These companies feel that they do not have enough support to, for example, hire interpreters and thus hire someone who is deaf. For example, you worry about having an employee who needs flashing alarms instead of sound alarms and not being able to evacuate safely. Here we need to bet first. What can we do? How will this beat? Who will be affected? Who will be covered? Can we do anything to give more people a better accessibility and mobility for real? Just because a law is passed does not mean that the law has the desired and sufficient effect. I believe that we have a responsibility to prepare legislative proposals and the consequences thereof properly so that we actually achieve the effects we want.
i-7902612779595edc-220	Mr President, I would like to There is a basis for this bill. There is evidence from the Discrimination Ombudsman and the Swedish Consumer Agency. There is also a series of evidence and evidence from the functional variation movement in our country. So there is real justification for presenting this tightening up of anti-discrimination legislation. That's not a strange consequence. It is not surprising that we want land to be built by law. It is not surprising that we want a law of discrimination that is as comprehensive as possible. The fact that there will be reasonableness tests and there are many possibilities for different types of activities and traders to adapt their activities to the legislation is because they are different. It is not possible to write to the letter in every word and come exactly what this should look like for everyone, for companies are such a motley group. They look different and can be found in different places. For example, there are top cabins on high mountains. There are so many variations that we can't even describe them all. That is precisely why we need to evaluate in due course and have the various assessments of fairness. This is what makes this legislation good. That is what makes it flexible and adapted to reality.
i-7902612779595edc-225	Mr President, my dear Minister. I hope with all my heart that the legislation will be just this good and that it will work just this well, not just in thought and certainty, for people with functional variations and for all small businesses who will have the opportunity to make these changes in a good way without having to close down or feel the threat of it. But here, somewhere, we're parting. I was involved in the whole process when we pushed to make accessibility a ground for discrimination. I was also involved in introducing the exemptions because of the uncertainty that affects entrepreneurs. For those who are going to start a business or already have a business and want to develop, it is always a matter of taking all the consequences and calculations into account if you are going to dare to take the step of developing, growing or other things. I share the Minister's view that most companies are doing everything in their power to be available, otherwise they will have no customers and no livelihood. Legislation is not quite clear and concrete, and it cannot be, but it can be clearer and more concrete. It'll be a worry, because you don't know what to expect. What should you count in your calculations before making decisions? This is not included as a basis. The two examples mentioned by the Minister show the breadth. There are very different things that may be required, which you should take a position on and which you should have the conditions to count in. In the end, it lands in what is reasonable for companies. What does the Minister think is reasonable for an entrepreneur to take as far as measures are concerned?
i-7902612779595edc-230	Mr President, I would like to When I understood that the Center Party would not support the tightening up of the anti-discrimination law that we are now doing and that the Alliance colleagues of the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats, support, I was disappointed. I have seen the Center Party as a social liberal party that stands up for the equal value of all people and is fighting for people with functional variations to have more and more opportunities to participate in our society. The fact that the Center Party puts forward a lot of beautiful words about Sweden being open and accessible to everyone and then in the previous speech hides behind the fact that it would be so complicated and line up the words of the legal texts makes me miserable too. Law texts are always written in legal language. This law, which opens up Sweden to more, has the criterion of justification in its structure precisely because the reality is so different. If, as I said earlier, we had described in detail what this should look like for each individual company, it would have become a completely impossible piece of legislation. Now we have openings and reasonableness assessments. Annika Qarlsson asks what is reasonable. That will be the judgment of the courts. I should not say that as a politician and as a minister, but we will see that. But the companies and traders, not least the small ones, will get help along the way. We strengthen DODO mission and resources to enable DO to guide. We have a dialogue with the business community to know what this means. We know from the evidence already available that many welcome this, welcome it and consider themselves available. There is uncertainty, but it is still believed that one will be able to adapt one's activities to this.
i-7902612779595edc-234	Mr President, I would like to The Minister's response boils down to what is why we want more evidence, more practice and more developed before we include small businesses. We were involved in pushing this through, but we said that we wanted to exempt the smallest companies at the first stage because they do not have the resources to stand in court. They will turn away – either they fold down, change or withdraw from such claims, because they are unable to pursue these cases in court. That is why we also meant that we should let the big companies take the lead, so that a practice emerges. If you choose to do so earlier, there still needs to be a more thorough basis. It is both a matter of ensuring that small businesses feel secure in the activities they carry out, which are important to all of us, and that they are able to make the necessary adjustments under their conditions and at their pace. But it is also about those with functional variations. What can we expect? We have heard a lot of different examples here, and there have perhaps been some examples that were not so good – is it about having once been to a certain lunch restaurant, have you been there several times and so on? Here in the debate there are different personal perceptions of what is reasonable or reasonable. This is what makes us feel that we need to have more on our feet before making decisions. We are absolutely not against taking this step. We have also said, both in the last turn and in this turn, that we want to see it include small businesses too, but we want to give them better opportunities to take the step.
i-7902612779595edc-238	Mr President, I would like to We want to see that Sweden does not make exceptions to the legislation on discrimination. The government says it's unworthy of our country. We can do better, and we can do more. We are extremely pleased that the Liberals and the Christian Democrats share that view. The exception today – and this can be repeated – means that 90% is excluded. That's an absurd number! As we make these changes, the law becomes comprehensive, so that people with functional variations, who are not the majority in our country, have the right by law not to be discriminated against. I would also like to emphasise this with the criterion of duration, of which there have been different views or interpretations. This means that in relationships of a more lasting nature, for example in an employment relationship, more may be required in terms of measures than in the case of a short-term or limited relationship. It should not be understood that at low duration less is required. It is at high duration that more is required. This can be stressed. The law will always apply once it is decided later today.
i-WX9DjG1w1L1bCwkA8pVj9D	Mr President, I would like to We have submitted a follow-up motion in connection with the letter Accounting for the distribution of funds from the General Heritage Fund during the financial year 2016. In the accompanying motion, we stress that it is important for the funds distributed by the General Heritage Fund to be used in accordance with the guidelines for the succession fund. Since there are many organisations that receive funds from the fund and have links to different expressions of faith as well as to other countries, it is very important to work actively to ensure that the funds distributed do not risk in any way favouring any form of terrorism or other extreme activity that could harm Sweden. Since there are relatively large sums of money distributed annually from the Fund, these funds could potentially do great harm if they risk being used to contribute to or promote terrorism in any way. That is why I support our reservation.
i-8Vm4AVpa2F4X4YwjgR5LR3	Mr President, I would like to This report deals with the annual report on the distribution of funds from the General Heritage Fund over the past year. Funds where there are no heirs go to the Swedish National Heritage Fund, and in 2016 there was a total of SEK 630 million. This money supports projects that exist in associations and organizations with a non-profit character and are innovative and developing. Priority groups are children, young people and people with disabilities. About half of the funds go to people with functional variations. Nearly 10 000 projects have been supported by the General Heritage Fund since 1970. The projects are of all sizes, and they are spread throughout the country. Approximately 70% of the funds go to local and regional projects. The rest of the projects are national. All projects that can be considered are referred to. In order to be eligible for any money at all, they must be in line with the values of the fund, which is the equal value of all people. The projects that have been granted funding are reported to Parliament every year in a report, as is the case here today. The projects are also reviewed annually by an authorised auditor. There are also several controller functions that control the projects both before, during and after the project. Project owners must also submit ongoing accounts. You can follow all projects on the website. In 2016, all the budgets for new projects were audited and a large number of on-site inspections were carried out throughout the country. The purpose of this was to ensure that the funds paid have been used properly and effectively. A number of researchers are also associated with this. They will evaluate the projects and see what the results have been and what the money has actually given. Administrators also travel around the country to talk about the possibility of applying for funds from the Swedish National Heritage Fund. Nowadays they are also on both Facebook and Twitter, which has increased visitor statistics significantly. Mr President, I would like to There are three motions on the matter and one reservation. There is a moderate exercise from general exercise time where one simply believes that the National Heritage Fund should be scrapped and that the money should go elsewhere. You don't think the fund's good. That exercise is not much to comment on, I think, other than that it is quite crazy. Then there is a center party exercise, also from general exercise time, where you want to change the rules so that at least 20 percent of the donor's money should go to his municipality of residence or neighboring municipalities. Today, there are no statistics on how donors' money is distributed geographically, but most people live in our large urban centres. It may be that it will be where the money goes instead of to sparsely populated areas, which the Center usually wants. That would greatly increase the administration to do as the Center proposes. The exercise and reservation from the Swedish Democrats is exactly the same as last year. It is about the fact that funds must not go to terrorist organisations. For today's government, it goes without saying that no funds are granted to any such organisations. There is also a clear regulatory framework in this area. In addition, the regulatory framework is under review. It feels much more populistic to stand here and read that these funds must not go to terrorist organisations. That is something that is expected to be said. I hope that Christina Östberg will tell us which projects are related to terrorism and that money from the Swedish National Heritage Fund has gone to and what it is in the regulations that makes it possible to apply for money as a terror-related organisation. The government is actively working on this issue, and it is clear from the government's letter contained in our documents. In addition, the Government has decided to instruct special investigators to review certain issues relating to the General Heritage Fund, precisely to ensure that the funds are used for the activities for which they are intended and that the money is managed and accounted for in a transparent, legally secure and impartial manner. These two separate assignments shall be reported. The first assignment will be presented on 30 November, i.e. this month, this year. The second assignment will be presented in September next year. Mr President, I would like to Overall, the Government considers that the funds for 2016 have been allocated in a well-implemented manner in accordance with the objectives. I therefore support the committee's proposal and reject the motions.
i-7902612779595edc-257	Mr President, I would like to Sustainable development is a development that meets today's needs without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs. This is how the Brundtland Commission defined the concept of sustainable development. In Sweden, we will take our responsibility for the climate. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has stated in the Government Declaration that Sweden will become a fossil-independent welfare nation. Sweden will be a leading country in the global effort to realise the ambitious objectives of the Paris Agreement, and we will take responsibility for our emissions. Sweden will continue to be an international role model through our national climate work and by contributing to emission reductions and their financing in other countries. As an example, Sweden is today the largest donor to the Green Climate Fund per capita. During this term of office, several important steps have been taken. Historically large budgetary efforts on the environment and climate have been made thanks to the current government. An ambitious climate policy framework, supported by most of the parliamentary parties, has been adopted. And increased opportunities have been created for municipalities and companies to finance their own effective climate action at local level. In the automotive sector, Parliament has set the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport by 70 per cent by 2030 compared to 2010. Fossil fuels must then be replaced by sustainable fuels. In order to cope with the necessary change, we need several different instruments. The government has already presented a proposal for a bonus – malus that provides bonuses when buying more fuel-efficient cars. The proposal presented in the 2018 budget proposal on the reduction obligation aims to reduce the emissions of the existing fleet of vehicles. And the existing fleet of vehicles is, of course, central to implementation in order to achieve our common objectives. The reduction obligation reduces greenhouse gas emissions from petrol and diesel fuels by including sustainable fuels. In addition, investments are being made in electrification, urban development agreements and charging infrastructure. The measures taken thus contribute to the electrification and fossil independence of the transport system in the passenger car fleet, in infrastructure, in public transport, in freight transport and in machinery. These are important steps forward. The proposal we are discussing here today, which deals with the implementation of amendments to the Renewables Directive, the ILUC, proposes amendments to the Act on sustainability criteria for biofuels and bioliquids as well as a target for advanced biofuels. The Swedish Energy Agency has been tasked with investigating the system of sustainability criteria and proposing improvements to the proposal that is now on the table and that has also been referred to. The proposed amendments introduce adaptations to the ILUC Directive. The proposals in the proposal amend the definitions of waste and residues and the requirements for reducing greenhouse gas emissions to ensure that biofuels and bioliquids are considered sustainable. In addition, as mentioned earlier, an objective is set for the share of advanced biofuels. Mr President, I would like to The sustainability criteria of the Renewables Directive can be broadly divided into two parts, namely minimum greenhouse gas reduction requirements and soil criteria. In order for biofuels or bioliquids to be considered sustainable, the proposal provides that the use of these fuels shall lead to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, compared to the emissions generated by the use of fossil fuels, by at least 50 % if the biofuel or bioliquid has been produced in an installation that has been put into operation by October 2015. The reduction shall be at least 60 % if the biofuel has been produced in an installation that has been put into operation thereafter. These emissions therefore follow the entire production chain and are to be counted from the production process starting with the cultivation of biomass, including the production of manure required for cultivation, which is ongoing up to and including the use of the biofuels or liquid biofuels. With regard to soil criteria, the raw material used to produce the biofuel must not come from high carbon or high biodiversity soils. This proposal has expressed some concerns through the consultation round that access to fuels is restricted when the new definitions for waste and residues may mean that palm oil, for example, will no longer be regarded as a residual product and may therefore also affect the achievement of the reduction obligation that I have previously mentioned and that the government has proposed. Then it is important to say that the very availability of biofuels depends on developments in the global biofuels markets and thus also becomes difficult to quantify. It is clear that increased demand from other countries can reduce supply in the short term. But it also leads to conditions for increased production. Similarly, the introduction of the reduction obligation in Sweden can in the longer term create the conditions for increased production. We are also a country with good conditions for this particular production with our access to forest residues and residues from paper and pulp mills. As a result, we are well placed to create long-term conditions for the biofuels market. In addition, the Government states in this proposal that the proposed changes are not deemed to entail the risk that we will not be able to achieve our overall transport target by 2030. Mr President, I would like to I therefore believe that the proposal for new definitions, which we are discussing here today, should not make the transition to biofuels more difficult on the whole and that there is therefore no reason for further analysis and investigations, as proposed by the opposition. The provisions of the proposal are proposed to enter into force in 2018. The bourgeois parties suggest that the government should consider postponing parts of its entry into force until 2019. However, under the ILUC Directive, Member States in the EU are obliged to implement the new provisions of national law by September 2017. That is precisely why we believe it is urgent that the amendments to the Sustainability Act should enter into force as soon as possible and that the further adjustments should continue in the usual order at the pace envisaged by the Government, for the sake of the directive, but above all for the sake of the climate. Mr President, I would like to Changing the fleet of vehicles is an important part of our environmental and climate work. We Social Democrats continue our proud tradition of working on environmental and climate issues. The Swedish model has shown that it is possible to reconcile welfare, economic growth and environmental thinking in the past. It is about environmentally friendly technological development, which creates jobs, economic growth and welfare worthy of the name. I would like to conclude by calling for the committee's proposal in report MJU6 on the implementation of amendments to the Renewables Directive and related reservations 1 and 2 from S, MP and V.
i-GiYmmCx2ejmLX4zBz8gEuK	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report under paragraphs 1 to 3 and for reservation 3. Sweden has adopted ambitious climate targets. Domestic transport currently accounts for about one third of emissions. If we are to achieve the climate targets, emissions from the transport sector must be reduced. This requires technological development, but it also requires better fuels. And this bill focuses precisely on the fuels and their durability. Madam President, I would like What if politics was simple? What if, for example, we could say that substance A is harmful, and that is why we are banning substance A? Then substance A disappears, and everything goes on as usual, in the right direction. But it's rarely that simple. It may be that if substance A is banned, another, perhaps substance B, can replace it. And if substance B is even more dangerous or harmful in another way, we have really achieved nothing by banning substance A. However, less ambitious politicians can beat their chests and say: at least now we have banned substance A, and that is a good thing because that substance is dangerous – without thinking about what happens next. What happens next is precisely what is being sketched out in impact assessments. And impact assessments are necessary for us to be able to make balanced decisions. In this report, we can perhaps see more than we think the difference in Swedish politics. On one side we have red-green politicians who are content to talk about where they want and who allow the ends to justify the means, whether the means bring us closer to the goal or not – ambitions ahead of actual results. On the other side is the Alliance. We agree with the objectives – it's important – but we realise that the path there is not straight and that we actually have to relate to reality. Good intentions are not worth much if real results are not achieved. And next to it, with significantly lower ambitions, is SD, which is not even able to sign on to the goals. Let me translate this argument into this report on biofuels. On one side are S, V and MP. Their ambition is to make it more sustainable fuels and to put an end to non-traceable PFAD in biofuels through reclassification. PFAD is known to occur in palm oil production and is classified as a residual product. It is well known that there are major sustainability challenges with palm oil production. The Alliance fully agrees with the concerns about palm oil production. However, we note quite quickly that there is a lack of an impact assessment showing the impact of the proposal on the climate, on transport costs, on available volumes of biofuels and on the ability to meet set requirements at a reasonable cost within the reduction obligation announced by the government. The Government's proposal is also presented at a time when several parallel, both national and international, processes are underway that affect the biofuels market in one way or another. We listen to the consultation bodies, to form an idea of possible consequences. They point out, among other things, that reduced access to HVO in turn risks leading to significantly increased prices and risks threatening the transition to a fossil-free vehicle fleet. Sweden's bus companies say that the reclassification of PFAD in Norway, which has thus been done in the past, led to an increase in the price of HVO by NOK 3 per litre. As a result, bus companies switched to fossil diesel and HVO from PFAD was replaced with certified palm oil. At the same time, we know that PFAD-based HVO represents as much as 23% of the total HVO use on the Swedish market. Certified palm oil decreased to zero in 2016. This was a good thing, but it is therefore likely that this proportion may increase if the use of PFAD-based HVO is restricted rapidly. If we make the changes wrong, then there is a risk that, firstly, we are pushing for the use of palm oil instead of palm oil residues and, secondly, that we are driving back the development and moving towards the use of more fossil fuels. If that were the case, would it help the climate and increase sustainability? Surely that must be what counts and not the beautiful words? The answer, of course, is obvious, but the problem is that, because the government has not carried out an impact assessment of its own proposal, we cannot possibly know how the proposal will beat. The Moderates and the Alliance believe that high demands on the traceability of raw materials used for biofuels are good. The Government's proposal will lead to PFAD-based HVO having to comply with more stringent traceability requirements than today. Don't get us wrong here! We think it's good. The problem is that it is happening very short-term, which is likely to result in stakeholders not meeting the extended requirements before the rules come into force. In order to limit the effects that may be feared, in order to create greater predictability in the biofuels market and enable the market to switch in a sustainable way, we believe it is necessary to investigate the consequences for the industry and the possibility of achieving Sweden's climate targets before further regulations are issued. We believe that the government should consider postponing the entry into force of the regulation a year in time, so that we know what we are actually doing. Setting targets is not enough. We also need to map out a reasonable path towards the goal.
i-7902612779595edc-290	Madam President, I would like Maria Malmer Stenergard and I agree on some things anyway. We have both noted this in our speeches, not least with regard to the target of reducing the emissions of the vehicle fleet by 70%. I am pleased to represent a party that forms part of a government paper that has taken several important decisions during this term of office. The Alliance government did not succeed in the same way. Bonus – Malus is on the table, and the reduction policy is underway. Now we will also look at how to update our biofuels and how to classify them. Maria Malmer Stenergard makes it sound like there have been no impact assessments. It's not like that. The Swedish Energy Agency has done a preparatory work. It has preceded the proposal in the bill, which will later end in a regulation. You have proposed that the government should consider postponing the regulation until 2019. At the same time, however, you say yes to the entry into force of what is proposed in the proposal on 1 January 2018. When the Riksdag adopts a bill, it is normally up to the Government to authorise how the regulation work should be designed in practice. It is important to point that out, Maria Stenergard. Therefore, I see no need to postpone that work. Why is it important to postpone it, Maria Malmer Stenergard?
i-7902612779595edc-295	Madam President, I would like The broad consensus that prevails on climate targets is very positive. Now we have a common goal to pursue. However, it is our absolute duty to ensure that climate peaks, that is, that we also reach those targets by the fastest possible route and in the most effective way. Perhaps this is where we differ, not when it comes to bonuses– malus, that Johan Büser lifts up– we are in complete agreement, nor when it comes to the reduction obligation, on which Johan Büser also raises – we are in complete agreement. With regard to this particular report, however, we realise that the government has drawn it in the long term. The Swedish Energy Agency was already completed by the end of 2015. Since then, very little has happened. And now we stand here, at the last moment, and will implement it. We say yes to the proposals in the bill. These are important proposals. But we are making a contribution to the government and calling for genuine market listening. That is not what has been done. We do not want to risk it landing in the use of more fossil fuels and pure palm oil. This does not bring us closer to the climate goals and better sustainability.
i-7902612779595edc-298	Madam President, I would like I can only say that the government and my party do not intend to drag this along any further. We want to make decisions on the proposal and to get the regulation in place so that all changes are implemented in 2018 after the consultation round that has been carried out and after the work that has been preceded by the Swedish Energy Agency and the consequences that have been looked at there.
i-7902612779595edc-299	Madam President, I would like Just a week ago I debated with a party colleague of Johan Büser. At that time, we agreed politically on the need to create long-term rules for companies. We need to involve companies in the transition if we are to achieve the objectives. Now that I listen to Johan Büser, who represents the government parties, I find it surprising that the rules of the game can be completely changed overnight. Then you are no longer in the long-term game of play. How to do it without sketching out possible consequences is for me a riddle. We are completely over even increasing demands for sustainability – that is not what this battle is about, if we are to call it a battle. As has been pointed out here, we are on the government bill. What we are asking for is an impact assessment because we think it is substandard. We also ask for a little respect for the companies that we must bring along on the journey towards the goals and respect for the goals. We cannot afford to step aside in our journey towards the targets. If the new regulation leads to more fossil and more use of pure palm oil, we have not taken important steps towards those objectives.
i-7902612779595edc-303	Madam President, I would like Now the UN's annual climate conference has begun. This year it is taking place in Bonn, and Fiji, which is one of climate change's hard hit east, is hosting the meeting. I started this day by moderating a breakfast seminar here in the Riksdag with Swedish climate scientists working in the UN climate panel IPCC. The theme of the seminar was the Bridge between research and politics. It could also be the theme of this and many other climate debates today. Our cross-party agreement that emissions from traffic should be reduced by 70% by 2030 can be said to be a good example where we politicians have listened to the research and acted. If we are to reduce our emissions at the pace required for the earth to become a place to live for future generations, we need to reduce emissions from traffic as well. We need to travel more climate-smart. And when we need to use the car, we need to refuel it with something other than fossil diesel and gasoline. But what we use as fuel in our vehicles, whether it is electricity or fuel produced from renewable raw materials, must lead to a reduction in emissions if there is to be any sense. It must not lead to irreplaceable nature being destroyed either at home in Sweden or elsewhere in the world. It is also important that what we drive our cars on does not lead to reduced food production and starvation in other parts of the world. Madam President, I would like We are debating today the report by the Committee on Environment and Agriculture on the implementation of amendments to the Renewables Directive – the ILUC. The directive is about what is sustainable biofuels. The question of which raw materials are okay to use for renewable fuels is also related to the government's long-awaited proposal for a change of fuel. But just because a fuel is produced from renewable raw materials, it does not have to be climate or environmental better than fossil fuels. A propellant that is definitely not it is palm oil or palm oil residue PFAD. Our consumption of palm oil continues to increase worldwide, causing major environmental and human rights problems in the countries where it is produced. Palm oil and PFAD are today available in a variety of consumer goods, from the food we eat to the soap we wash with and in the diesel that we fill our cars with. Almost half of EU imports of palm oil go to biodiesel. The large increase in biodiesel in the EU thus consists of an unsustainable alternative to fossil diesel. According to an evaluation presented by the European Commission last year, palm oil has three times the climate impact of fossil diesel, taking into account the emissions from cultivation and transport. Palm oil is extracted from oil palms grown in large plantations. The crops are mainly located in Indonesia and Malaysia. Indonesia is the world's largest exporter of palm oil and produces 50 percent of all palm oil. Indonesia has an estimated 13.5 million hectares of oil plantations, and the government plans to double its area by 2020. This would correspond to an area larger than half of Sweden. Plantations are also increasing in Africa, including Uganda, Liberia and Cameroon, and in Latin America, such as Honduras, Colombia, Peru and Brazil. Behind the huge landscape-changing plantations hides the destruction of rainforests with the loss of great unique and irreplaceable natural values, peatlands that are diverted into plantations and violations of human rights. It is also common for the chemical pesticide paraquat to be used on plantations, a product that is banned within the EU because it can harm human health. Madam President, I would like One might ask: Is this what Swedish consumers want to contribute to? I am convinced that the answer to that question is no. The debate and awareness of the impact of palm oil on the environment, human health and human rights is high among Swedish consumers. We read on the packaging when buying biscuits, soap and much more when shopping. I think many of us are moderately eager to be forced to refuel palm oil or PFAD in our cars. It is therefore very welcome that the government in its proposal wants to change the classification of PFAD and remove tax subsidies. It is important that this enters into force at the same time or before the reduction obligation, the change of fuel, does so. The Government's Fuel Change Act will enter into force on 1 July next year. It aims to impose a requirement on fuel suppliers to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions each year through the incorporation of biofuels. Companies can decide for themselves how they want to act in order to cope with the reduction. They can choose between mixing an increased amount of renewable fuels, selling less in total volumes or paying penalty if they fail to meet their reduction. But without a regulatory framework that stops it becoming PFAD that ends up in our fuel tanks, the fuel change risks leading to greater climate emissions from traffic and increasing environmental pollution, at the same time – and this is very important – that the bones are removed from Swedish production of renewable fuels of residual products from households, agriculture and forests. It is fuel that today cannot compete with the cheaper PFAD. However, this does not seem to be something that the bourgeois parties, led by the Center Party, have understood. In the first version of the follow-up motion to the government bill written by the alliance representatives in the committee, it was required that uncertified PFAD be allowed to continue to be filled in our petrol tanks for another year. That this exercise was written after intense lobbying by some fuel companies is known. The formulations are recognized. It is an ill-considered motion and further proof of the inadequate environmental policy of the bourgeois opposition. But I would still like to say that you are to be commended for having backed up. In this report and in the latest version of the motion, you simply state that the government should consider postponing the entry into force of the amendments to the directive. Madam President, I would like There are no free lunches. Transport emissions cannot be solved simply by replacing fossil fuels with biofuels. Even if we were to ignore all environmental considerations and the fact that we also have to produce food and instead use all the world's forest and agricultural land, we would not be able to produce as much fuel as we are receiving from oil today. In other words, we must also do a lot of other things to reduce emissions and get away from our dependence on oil. Let me therefore conclude by mentioning a few things that the Green Party has been running for a long time and which our government has now introduced. We have made billions of investments in climate change, which has led, among other things, to 9 000 new charging points for electric cars being set up in our country. We have introduced the urban environment agreement, which has led, among other things, to the construction of a new tram line in Lund and the construction of a BRT line, a kind of bus tram line, in Karlstad. We have the important airline tax, which will make more people choose the train instead of the flight, and the new high-speed rail lines, which will have the same result. The government's efforts on rail throughout the country, on free public transport for young people during summer holidays and on resuming night rail traffic are further examples. These are important reforms and efforts to reduce traffic emissions. The change of fuel, combined with high demands on the environmental and climate performance of biofuels, is another. What we choose to refuel our cars with is an important environmental and climate issue. Madam President, I would like I would like to endorse the reservations 1 and 2, which we have in common with the S and V. I also support the proposal contained in the report.
i-7902612779595edc-324	Madam President, I would like In my eagerness I also happened to press the approval button. I can say that I agree that we must have sustainable fuels in our thoughts. However, I do not agree very much with the rest of what Stina Bergström said here. Above all, I was surprised when she suggested that we ourselves should not be the authors of our accompanying motion, which, in my opinion, explains in a comprehensive way our position on the matter. It has not been written because of pressure from anything other than reality. This reclassification has been done in Norway, and there we can see what actually happened. It really did not take us towards the targets, but it brought us towards more fossil fuels and towards more palm oil in the tank. I wonder how this brings us towards our climate targets.
i-7902612779595edc-326	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stenergard, for the question. I would also like to welcome Mrs Maria to the debates in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture. This is the first time we've been standing here together. I don't really understand the comparison with Norway. There has not been a reduction obligation or a change of fuel, as our government has done. It is precisely this combination that will lead to the biofuels that are needed – we are asking for a certain amount of biofuels to be incorporated. This must be done, and thus fossil fuels cannot increase, but must be reduced at the rate that will be decided by the government. Nor do I understand the argument that the use of palm oil would increase. Palm oil must also meet sustainability criteria, both in terms of reducing climate emissions – with an increased demand for reduction from 50% to 60% compared to fossil diesel – and in terms of land use. The reason why PFAD can be widely used in diesel today is partly because it is cheaper and partly because it does not need to count the climate impact of PFAD from the beginning of production and transport, because it is classified as a residual product.
i-7902612779595edc-330	Madam President, I would like Thank you for welcoming us to the committee. I look forward to many debates in the future. What I wonder is where the consequences that Stina Bergström sketches out are busy. I do not have an impact assessment that describes just that. How is it that the government parties are opposed to our rather cautious request for an impact assessment to be carried out? Here again, we have a link between the objectives and the path to the objectives. It is not enough just to say that something should be done and then to implement it overnight. Then you don't take responsibility for what happens. It is not that we do not want to do this. But we want to implement it in a sustainable way so that we have a sustainable transition. That's where we split up.
i-7902612779595edc-334	Madam President, I would like As Johan Büser said in his speech, this work has been preceded by a thorough investigation by, among others, the Swedish Energy Agency. We already know about the consequences of this proposal. Then you can never know exactly in detail what will happen. That's right, isn't it? However, we do not see any need for further impact assessments. On the other hand, we see a great need to introduce this, because we had actually had to implement the ILUC Directive already in September this year. The discussion about this being introduced overnight makes me think of the discussion that preceded the sulphur directive and the Moderates' attitude towards it. The Sulphur Directive had been under discussion for many years. The fact that there would be and that there would be higher demands on fuel in the ships was not news for the industry. It was a very important measure to put an end to the large sulphur emissions in the Baltic Sea in particular. They cause major public health and environmental problems in the area. It was said that it was absolutely impossible to implement the sulphur directive, and the Moderates demanded a postponement. In that case, the Center Party Environment Minister put his foot down and said that we actually have to have this. Once the decision had been taken, the introduction of this was not a major problem. In this case, there are some fuel producers who see that they currently have a lot of PFAD or who want to involve PFAD in order to meet the reduction obligation. The government believes that this goes against climate and environmental objectives and does not want to allow it. We therefore believe that this needs to be introduced at the same time as introducing the reduction obligation.
i-7902612779595edc-338	Madam President, I would like Lookers and audiences in the chamber and in the gallery! I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 3 and the other amendments to the committee's proposal. By 2030, Sweden's transport emissions will be reduced by 70 per cent. We agree on that. I was involved in negotiating the figure myself. The way there will not be easy. Sweden does not have influence over all the decisions that are actually needed to get us there. There are great risks, not least that the European Union is putting its backs on the line. We see how the Green Group in Parliament – the Group of which the Green Party is also a member – repeatedly acts in a way that makes it almost impossible to produce and use biofuels. The debate today is not about whether or not to introduce the government's proposal, but, above all, about why the government has not examined the consequences of this. Many referrals have been critical and have wondered what the government has been thinking. This is particularly true of the short advance that is given. The Alliance has therefore brought about a motion. It is the current exercise that applies. What has been before, I think we can leave it at that, because it has never been official paper. The traceability of all fuels used is self-evident. No fuel, whether fossil or renewable, shall be produced unsustainablely. For fossil fuels, sustainability is a fundamental problem from a climate point of view, because it is by definition fossil. However, even among them there are differences. For me, the fact that the government or the EU does not in any way impose the same requirements on fossil fuels as on renewables is a mystery. For example, tar sands from Canada have a completely different sustainability aspect, in a much worse way, than the Norwegian North Sea oil has. The Center Party has been pushing for a long time to make it possible to impose these sustainability requirements on all fuels and to make it possible to see where the petrol you tanks come from. Why does the government impose higher demands on renewables than on fossils? When do we get to see demands for the fossil fuel that is also about traceability? Why is there no origin marking at the pump so that we consumers can know where we get our fuel? Why do I not get the opportunity to refuel from Piteå instead of the Putin fossil? I am also opposed to the intimidation propaganda that just came from the speaker's seat. The Green Party says that biofuels and food are competing with each other. There is no research support whatsoever for that. The latest reports say there's no such connection. It doesn't exist, and standing here and saying that only benefits one thing: the fossil and oil lobby. It is their argument that is heard from the Green Party in this pulpit. Rather, we in Europe have large areas of fallow land – arable land we do not use. There is a great potential there, to actually use the resources we have to become more independent rather than importing from fossil countries. There is no proper impact assessment for the rules the government is now introducing. We will vote in favour of the Government's proposal, but we do so with concern. In practice, this means that a residual product from palm oil production, PFAD – it is not palm oil, but a residual product – will have a different estimate of how climate smart it is and thus disappear from our fuels because it does not meet the targets. It does not have to be bad; rather, it is a development that is good in the long term. PFAD, which cannot be produced sustainably, is obviously not something we should have. The problem is that 23% of our renewable HVO today consists of precisely PFAD. That is last year's figure, and it was completely different in 2015 when the Swedish Energy Agency presented its report and its impact assessment. In addition, there are figures this year that show that up to half of our renewable diesel consists of PFAD. To argue then that the Swedish Energy Agency has carried out an impact assessment a few years ago will be completely unsustainable. To achieve new production of raw materials with half a year's notice is, to say the least, a major challenge. There are therefore, above all, three things I would like to warn against. We risk, just as it was in 2012 – 2014, getting pure palm oil into fuel instead. This is an important difference to make: Palm oil meets the criteria we set for climate benefit – those 50-60 percent Stina Bergström talked about. PFAD will not do that with the new calculation. On the other hand, palm oil has lower climate performance than the current PFAD, which means that we risk getting more palm oil than the current level of PFAD. I don't think the government would appreciate that. Instead, if no palm oil comes, we risk backing our climate targets. Not achieving the reduction targets and thus getting strong price increases at the pump may be the government's goal. Perhaps it is the goal that we should raise the price of petrol by a few crowns, but then I think you should say so. It's the only thing that makes sense. So the risk is that it is the palm oil that Stina Bergström stood in the speaker's chair and spit so much on – rightly so – we can say – we get in instead. With the current wording in the bill – which has also been criticised for being unclear and creating uncertainty, which is exactly the opposite of what the industry needs to make investments – we also risk that even that pine oil that we like to celebrate in Sweden, our flagship in terms of renewable fuels, will be traceable back to the individual pine plantation. Then it also gets completely different calculations. It would have been very exciting to see the government's impact assessment there. In the long term, I am absolutely convinced that we will have other fuels to take over the place that PFAD has today. I think that goes without saying. I, if anyone wants more domestic fuel production, have put half a billion in its draft budget to challenge and drive the development towards more renewable energy and a bioeconomy. My concern is primarily about what happens in the short term. In the next six months, no one will be able to build new production. Has the government analysed this at all? It's not in the bill. Can the government guarantee that we will not get palm oil into diesel instead? It is in fact capable of meeting the climate requirements imposed by the government. Can the government guarantee that we will not have a shock increase in the price of petrol this summer? How will this hit the pine oil? How will the calculations change for it? Will the government ever make the same demands on fossils as on renewables, or will fossils still go sour cream? How does the ambiguity of the proposals affect the long-term conditions we need to actually get companies that want to invest in sustainable production of biofuels in Sweden? These are big questions. These are crucial questions I'm asking you. Therefore, they also justify the two announcements made by the Alliance. Has there been any impact assessment at all? The loose assumptions I hear – Johan Büser from the Social Democrats says in the speaker's chair that he has made a certain assessment – I do not believe that companies can make investments from outside. I want to know what the government thinks. The issues have become hanging in the air not only in this debate but also in the media, where they have had very high tails. I think it would be nice if you from the government parties took a reply to my speech and were able to correct the question marks. Can you guarantee that there will be no palm oil in the tank next July? That would be very good. So, please, take a line! Tell us how the government has thought and why it does not dare to report an impact assessment.
i-7902612779595edc-356	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I had already requested a reply before Rickard Nordin appealed to me to do so. I did so when Rickard Nordin stood and claimed that I have said that food production in Sweden and Europe is threatened by biofuel production. That's not what I said. I said it's important that what we drive our cars on does not lead to reduced food production and starvation in other parts of the world. Rickard Nordin may not have been involved in the debate that took place about, among other things, ethanol production and the large sugar plantations for the production of ethanol that existed in the world. It knocked away food production in many countries and actually also led to starvation. With regard to palm oil, the destruction of our rainforests has a major impact not only on biodiversity and climate but also on the food supply of many people living in the rainforests. My question to Rickard Nordin is, therefore, if the Center Party and Rickard Nordin do not see that we have a responsibility for what is happening outside Sweden and the EU as regards the production of biofuels.
i-7902612779595edc-359	Madam President, I would like Well, Stina Bergström, I followed the ethanol debate. I have also followed the aftermath of the ethanol debate, where research showed that there is no correlation between reduced food production and increased use of biofuels. It was a temporary connection that had completely different reasons. That research report, and also the research reports that have been meta-studies, I very much forward to Stina Bergström so that she can stop standing in the speaker's chair and say things that do not have research support. Ethanol is a fantastic fuel in many ways, but it has now been put away because of lobbying for the fossil fuel – which benefits from these claims. There is no research support whatsoever for that. I am also concerned about the destruction of the rainforest, and that is precisely why I do not want more palm oil in our fuels. But that is the risk of the government's proposal – that we replace a bad fuel with an even worse and even larger volume. This is one of the concrete risks that consultation bodies have also warned against, and yet the government has not given any information whatsoever on these claims. I still do not get any answers to the questions I raised in my speech. What will be the consequences? Can we get a raise? What does the government think will replace this with? It may even represent half of the entire production we are running today. What will it do? I think we fully agree that we should have sustainable fuels, but the government's proposals do not have an impact assessment. You don't seem to know what you're talking about. I get worried when you mix up PFAD and palm oil and say that everything will go away. Then you haven't read your own proposal. I am genuinely concerned, and that is why I and the Alliance have a number of announcements to know what the government actually thinks about developments. We still do not have an answer to that.
i-7902612779595edc-364	Madam President, I would like If you don't see the connection between palm oil and PFAD, you might need to read a little bit. PFAD is a residual product obtained after developing the palm oil. Much that you currently use palm oil for can actually also use PFAD for. PFAD is cheaper, and today you don't have to count it in the same way as palm oil. You do not have to count from the beginning of growing the oil palms, but you can count from the beginning of receiving the residual product. This makes it cheaper and has a different climate and environmental value. Not all palm oil now meets the requirements for climate performance. It is absolutely the case that it does not meet the environmental impact requirement. It is also the case that Swedish consumers do not want palm oil in biofuels. It is because Swedish consumers have said no that we in Sweden today do not really have any palm oil in our fuels. I am convinced that we as motorists are not eager to get it through the back door. Instead, you have to look for other raw materials. We have that in Sweden. We have a good supply of raw materials. It is much better than in many other countries. We have residues from both agriculture and forestry. Agroethanol in Norrköping is a great example. Their ethanol, by the way, today goes very much to Germany. There are other things that we could use to mix in with both diesel and petrol. That is a very important part of the consequence it would have if the Alliance's proposal were now to go through. Then we will eliminate the production of biofuels from Swedish raw materials.
i-7902612779595edc-369	Madam President, I would like The Alliance's proposal is for the government to produce an impact assessment. If this means that we put away the bones for Swedish biofuel production, first of all I will be very surprised. Secondly, this impact assessment shows something. The government has not chosen to disclose this. What I think might happen is that the pine oil is in trouble. It is a real problem because it is also calculated differently in the extension of this event, especially as the Green Group has reasoned and voted in the European Parliament. Yes, PFAD is a residual product. Yes, it makes sense to start counting that way. But what are the consequences? We still haven't heard anything from the government about it. I don't want palm oil in the tank. I do not think consumers want that either. One of the major risks of this is that we get palm oil instead of PFAD and get it into larger volumes to cover the current volume of PFAD. There is a difference in how it is calculated today. There will be a difference in how to calculate it in the future. That's the big risk. Standing here and having some kind of defense by making brand speeches against palm oil will only bite one yourself back there eventually if we now get in palm oil that we got 2012 – 2014. Then it was replaced by PFAD. That is the major problem and one on which the government does not present an impact assessment. I would have liked to have heard Stina Bergström, Johan Büser or anyone else guarantee that we do not get palm oil, that we will not raise the petrol price by 2 SEK at the pump or that we get long-term conditions for our pine oil and other renewable fuels that we can do in Sweden. We have residual products to do so, but we have no guarantee of long-term rules of play. That's a problem. Then it is not enough to say, as Mr Bergström said: I believe, I am convinced. There is no company that wants to invest because a Member of Parliament is in the speaker's seat and believes something. They need concrete proposals and concrete impact assessments from the government. That is lacking in the proposal. That's what makes me so worried.
i-7902612779595edc-376	Madam President, I would like We know that greenhouse gas emissions this year are the highest in at least 800 000 years. We also know that the year 2017 is likely to be the hottest year ever since temperatures were measured globally. The day before yesterday, the climate summit COP 23 began in Bonn. The aim is for the international community to jointly address the major challenge of climate change and global warming. What we are talking about today is an absolutely crucial part of it, namely how we can reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases from the transport sector. We in the Left Party had hoped that we could have a higher target for reducing emissions from the sector. But even with the current targets, we can see that we are very far from achieving the target of reducing emissions by 70% by 2030. Biofuels are an important part of this. While we support biofuels and see it as an important component of the transition to a more sustainable society, we must ensure that biofuels are produced in such a way that it does not have other effects at the other end. We must ensure that biofuels really significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We must ensure that biofuels do not compete with food production mainly in developing countries. We must also ensure that biofuel production does not have other negative environmental effects, such as biodiversity in terms of deforestation. In this respect, we note that at least at the beginning of a large-scale investment in biofuels, it was a bit naive and thought that everything that was bio-based was good. At least part of this has been resolved. That is why we have a so-called ILUC directive. It is a directive that will impose requirements on biofuels and which is also part of the EU's so-called renewable energy directive. What the discussion is about today is how we can get better criteria for biofuels used in Sweden. From my perspective and the perspective of the Left Party, it is of course very welcome that we are tightening up the requirements for biofuels to be used in Sweden. Biofuels must certainly not lead to the destruction of forests in tropical countries, as unfortunately is the case with large-scale palm oil production in Indonesia and Malaysia, for example. We also see that a very large part of the palm oil imported into Europe is being used as biofuels. We therefore believe that the demands made in the bill are incredibly important. These requirements will lead to better conditions for Swedish production of biofuels. That, however, is what I hope we agree on here. The form of biofuels we want to use is from the production of residues from the forest industry and agriculture. In this context, the announcement made by the bourgeois parties together with the Swedish Democrats is completely illogical and incomprehensible. This means that those parties want to postpone the entry into force of the new law by a full year. It will mean a lost year for environmental work, as we have only continued uncertainty as to what will apply to biofuel production. Unfortunately, it will also be another year when palm oil can continue to be used as biofuels in Sweden. That is why I am in favour of reservations 1 and 2 by us red-green parties. We believe that the bill in the bill should of course enter into force according to the plan. Madam President, I would like In this context, I would like to raise an issue that we absolutely must not forget. It doesn't matter how much biofuels we produce. Nor does it matter what requirements we impose on climate performance and overall environmental performance of biofuels. Ultimately, the issue of climate change is that we need to change our way of life. It is not just about pouring something else into the tank and then we can continue driving just like now. We need to transport ourselves less by car. We need to transport ourselves less by airplanes. We need to find smarter ways of living so that we reduce our overall environmental and climate load. That is why we must remember that biofuels and biofuel requirements are only a small piece of the puzzle. The biggest piece of the puzzle is about fundamental behavioral changes. There we politicians have a great responsibility. However, these issues are subject to debates other than this one, which is why I am not taking them any further than simply stating this.
i-7902612779595edc-391	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm also makes the mistake of talking about PFAD as palm oil. These are two different products with two different climate benefits. Rather, the Government's proposal risks leading us to get palm oil in our thoughts – precisely the palm oil that Jens Holm stands and warns against. I have some questions for Jens Holm. Is the Left Party really prepared to support a proposal that risks bringing palm oil into our minds? It also risks leading to a radical increase in the price at a pump if this does not happen. In addition, it risks putting sticks in the wheel for Swedish biofuels. Can the Left Party really support proposals without impact assessment that risk having these consequences?
i-7902612779595edc-393	Madam President, I would like I think that Rickard Nordin and the bourgeois parties – the Swedish Democrats I do not want to count on in this context – have again suffered from a yes, but a disease. Yes, but a yes means that you say yes to reduced emissions from aviation but not to air taxes. You say 'yes' to more public transport but not to the increased spending on the budget. You say yes to climate investment, but not to targeted local investments in precisely climate investment. You say yes to sustainability requirements for biofuels, I believe, but not now and not in this way. The whole purpose of this proposal, Rickard Nordin, is to set sustainability requirements for biofuels. This combined with the requirements that we have in other streams, such as the change of fuel and the reduction obligation, is about investing in the most sustainable biofuels that we can get. It is about Swedish biofuels that are residues from agriculture and from the forest industry and possibly also about the import of cane ethanol from Brazil, which I consider to be a relatively sustainable biofuels. So yes, Rickard Nordin, I think this is a much better proposal than the present proposal.
i-7902612779595edc-396	Madam President, I would like That the Center Party is behind many of the things that Jens Holm line up, we are quite agreed on. I have great respect for Jens Holm and for the issues he runs. The problem is that you also have to aim at what emissions it is we want to reduce and how to do it, and there were several of the things that Jens Holm lined up that were not aiming at emissions at all but rather at more tax revenues. It is good that I hear that Jens Holm is behind the proposal and is also prepared to support it regardless of whether it leads to us getting more palm oil. It will be fun to have that debate eventually. Let us now focus on what Jens Holm also says about the Swedish biofuels. Can Jens Holm guarantee that we will not have the same demand for Swedish pine oil – given how the left wing in the European Parliament has just voted in the Committee on the Environment? This means that the pine oil also has much worse climate regulations, and that means that we may even not be able to use the pine oil in view of the way the EU rules are. Is Jens Holm prepared to support this in the European Parliament as well? Or what is the opinion of the Left Party there? How will we vote when we come to the final vote in Parliament? Will you continue to drive this and toss the machinery of the Swedish biofuels there too, or will you ensure that you do a job in your own party group and also vote differently?
i-7902612779595edc-400	Madam President, I would like Rickard Nordin and I share a great deal of the commitment to climate change, and I would like to pay tribute to Rickard Nordin for this. But there is a fundamental difference, and it is how we view the market's ability to steer in the right direction. As I interpret Rickard Nordin and the policy of the Center Party, it is about the fact that if we only promote biofuels, it will automatically be a huge production of the best biofuels possible. I do not think it works that way, Rickard Nordin, partly for the simple reason that a motorist in the rich North American and European countries will always be able to pay more than a starving man in the South who does not have this money. This means that there is always an obvious risk of a displacement effect on food production where biofuels production can instead spread. There's always someone who can pay. That is why it is so important that we make demands on biofuels. Rickard Nordin asks about the Swedish pine oil. I think it is a biofuel that meets exactly the requirements for biofuels that we want to see more of. Now I am no longer in the European Parliament, but this is exactly the form of biofuels that we want provided that they are produced in a sustainable way, as I believe is being done today.
i-7902612779595edc-403	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved, except as regards the committee's position under the section Access to Sustainable Fuels, in which I am calling for the approval of reservation 3, which is an alliance. In other words, the Liberals support the proposed legislative amendments to enable us to adapt Swedish legislation to the so-called renewable directive, abbreviated by the ILUC. It is important that we have this with us, and that is not really the problem we are discussing. The Liberals, together with the other alliance parties, have put forward some views with a clear, clear and honest aim of strengthening the supply of sustainable fuels. For the Liberals, it is essential that all measures now being taken with regard to sustainable fuels should have a clear focus on the target of reducing emissions from domestic transport by 70% by 2030 compared to 2010. That is an ambitious objective, which we, the Liberals, are convinced we can achieve. Biofuels will play a major role in this. That is why it is a good thing that we have clear sustainability criteria both in terms of the level of emissions they emit and in terms of the so-called soil criteria, which are linked not least to the conservation of biodiversity. In this context, it is good to note that Sweden as a country has great opportunities to become a major producer of sustainable biofuels. From the Liberals' point of view, we welcome the system of reduction obligations that is now being introduced. We can see that this type of system can also be used in other areas, such as aviation and shipping. We believe that the reduction obligation has a major impact on vehicle fuels in general at the beginning of the process. However, when the passenger car fleet is increasingly electrified, as we are sure it will, biofuels will become increasingly important. It will also be possible to give priority to heavy road transport, maritime transport and air transport. The reduction obligation system is, as I said, something that can also be transferred to these areas. Madam President, I would like Policies implemented in the legislation should therefore be assessed on the basis of their ability to drive progress towards meeting this particular target by 2030 – to reduce emissions from domestic transport by 70%. In our view, the proposed amendment of the law risks jeopardising this particular objective, as some biofuels on the market may be excluded in the short term. There will then be a shortage of biofuels. I want to be clear on one point. In the debate so far today, I feel that there has somehow been a discussion that someone would think that the palm oil industry is a good industry, which we should promote. I think we can fully agree that we do not think so. In any case, from our side, I can declare this with great emphasis. There are definitely major sustainability challenges in terms of global palm oil production. Palm oil is used both for fuel and for the food industry, and this needs to be managed globally to protect biodiversity and prevent the illegal destruction of rainforests that are under way. The survival of the orangutans, in particular, has become a great symbol of this particular destruction of rainforest in favour of palm oil plantations. As I said, we do not really need to discuss this. Sustainability criteria are good, and it is good to introduce a soil criterion where biodiversity is central. Madam President, I would like By agreeing to a number of alliance joint claims, the committee and the Parliament nevertheless express a clear focus on the desire to create a predictable and long-term regulatory framework for biofuels with good foresight to enable the industry to adapt and thus avoid the twitchiness that has existed many times in the past. The fact that we are prioritising biofuels with high climate benefits and high traceability requirements seems obvious in this context. However, the market must be in a position to be able to switch to this. It is, of course, important that we carry out an impact assessment of what decisions mean. That is exactly what this is all about. It's not really about anything else. Although there is now an announcement about this, it is actually a quite obvious requirement that should have been implemented before the bill came here. Now it is not, and that is why this demand and that viewpoint come from the Liberals and from the Alliance in general. With regard to the possibility for the market to be able to switch, there is a clear link in this particular objective that we have in common for us to be able to reduce emissions from domestic transport by 70% by 2030. Otherwise, I agree with my alliance colleagues on what they have said on this matter.
i-7902612779595edc-417	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that there is total political agreement in the Swedish Parliament to implement a very important shift from petrol and diesel fuels to energy from renewable energy sources – from fossil-based fuels to biofuels and liquid biofuels. In this way, the Riksdag approves in today's vote what the Government proposes on targets for the share of advanced biofuels. At the same time, we in Parliament address two announcements to the government. The first is an analysis of the impact of the new rules on biofuels and the fact that this study is carried out before regulations are made on, among other things, what is meant by the concept of residual product. The second announcement made by the Committee on Environment and Agriculture concerns the importance of predictable and long-term conditions for biofuels. We believe that instruments should be long-term, while at the same time being commodity and technology neutral and rewarding fuels with high climate benefits. In its report, the Swedish Energy Agency has chosen not to give an advance ruling on how different raw materials should be defined. This creates uncertainty for operators who intend to invest in production facilities as it is unclear what market benefits a biofuel can have. Madam President, I would like It is very important that the rules for the market players in the biofuels market are both predictable and long-term. We believe that the adjustments made in terms of definitions affecting the biofuel market players should be made with good foresight in order for the industry to be able to adapt to the regulatory framework and to avoid twitchiness. On the question of what is meant by residual products, the committee fears that the new definition of what is considered a residual product may lead to certain types of biofuels being excluded from the Swedish market in the short term. This may apply to raw materials currently used for the production of the propellant HVO, commonly referred to as ‘environmental diesel' or ‘biodiesel'. A reduced supply of HVO could lead to an increase in the price of HVO. This may result in a reduction in the use of biofuels in the short term, while increasing the sales of fossil fuels and certified palm oil. We don't want that to happen. In order to limit the risks of reducing the availability of biofuels in order to create greater predictability in the biofuels market and to provide the market with reasonable opportunities to carry out the necessary conversions, it is wise, we believe, to investigate the consequences before further regulations are made on residues. On the other hand, the Government should postpone the entry into force of the proposed Regulation amending the Regulation on sustainability criteria for biofuels and bioliquids until 1 July 2019. I therefore agree that it is urgent that the amendments to the law enter into force as quickly as possible, but we propose that the regulation be postponed until July 2019. The report contains an alliance reservation on access to sustainable fuels, in which we emphasise that access to these fuels is crucial to achieving the sector target of reducing emissions from domestic transport by 70% by 2030 compared to 2010. The proposed changes to the bill may affect the supply of raw materials on the biofuels market. In doing so, Madam President, I call for the Environment and Agriculture Committee's proposal to be approved in the report on the ILUC and for the Alliance-wide reservation 3 on access to sustainable fuels, while at the same time calling for rejection of the reservations of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left 1 and 2.
i-7902612779595edc-427	Madam President, I would like For once, the Swedish democrats come last in the debate precisely because we are the only party that, when there are reservations, has no reservation. I don't think that's happened before. However, it is not because we are very pleased with this report, but more because the best thing we can do at this point, with a lot of other types of proposals and the budget proposal and other things, is to try to mitigate the risks of this proposal and to poke a little bit off the edge, as it is a bad policy both from the government and from the Alliance. The two underlying problems that we have here are that we are moving forward with a much more ambitious reduction obligation than the European Union requires. The Swedish Democrats are behind the reduction obligation. However, the Swedish proposal is too comprehensive. This, combined with the total exemption of the more pure biofuels, which are apparently not compatible with EU law, risks causing major market imbalances. I will come back to that later. Madam President, I would like Swedish politicians, except us in the Swedish Democrats, have unrealistic expectations of what can be achieved with biofuels today. There is talk of green carbon atoms. But there is actually only one type of carbon atom, and they are equally worth or harmful, depending on how you look at it. There is talk of conversion, sustainable fuels and a break in oil dependence. The problem with setting such unrealistic goals is that harm is easily done more than good. It is a policy full of fine words, slogans and good hopes, but unfortunately one lacks a basis for reality. Madam President, I would like Since the turn of the millennium, expectations of biofuels have been sky-high. Everything would be fine. Greenhouse gas emissions would be reduced and the need to import oil would be reduced or even stopped. We have certainly achieved a very high consumption of biofuels in Sweden. This is probably about almost 20% of total consumption. But is this really an achievement? No, we import almost everything. So it is not a question of self-sufficiency. And since biofuels are much more expensive to produce, the market depends on policy measures. This has meant massive tax relief and a huge loss of tax revenue. It is about 7 – 8 billion a year. It is significant money in a state budget where worthy projects of, for example, 250 million can be rejected for cost reasons. Madam President, I would like What have we got for these 7 - 8 billion? In theory, we have reduced our emissions in the small cake that we focus on here in Sweden. We see that emissions from the transport sector are difficult to reduce. But from a global perspective, one might ask whether we have achieved any benefit. In reality, we have moved emissions because it takes energy – fossil energy – to produce biofuels. Fields are to be plowed. They're going to be fertilized. Agrochemicals shall be produced. Then a large part of the CO2 benefit is eroded in a system perspective. Moreover, if so-called land use change is caused, the whole project can be directly counterproductive in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. Madam President, I would like Here politicians from seven different parties struggle about who is causing the consumption of palm oil. The problem is: Although Jens Holm and Stina Bergström today say a lot of good things about land use being relevant and that biofuels are positive not only because it is biofuels, Jens Holm and Stina Bergström are responsible for having received a large amount of palm oil into the Swedish market. It is your fault, among other things, that we are destroying more rain forest today than before. The same applies to the Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. It's your fault we've increased the destruction of rainforests. This is important to bear in mind. When the green movement in Europe opposes agricultural biofuels, barks at the pine oil and wants to cause problems for government and Alliance plans here in Sweden, it is not about the green movement being stupid. In this case, I think it is right about a lot of things. That we talk a lot about pine oil in Sweden is because we meet lobbyists every week who want to increase the price of forest raw materials. It is not that they necessarily want to save the climate. We have to think about that when we meet them. Tall oil, which lobbyists and a lot of politicians want to see more of, has a completely different view of in the rest of the world. For example, I met a researcher here in Parliament a few months ago. Then one of the leading fuel scientists in this area was Stephanie Searle from ICCT. More people should take part in this research. We have a worldwide market. If you start using a product for fuel, there will be a chain reaction on the market. For example, if pine oil on a large scale is used for fuel, the price of pine oil will increase. Then people will stop using pine oil for what it is used for today. It has been concluded that, for example, rapeseed oil will replace in some cases. Then there will be a change in the overall level of emissions. For example, some research has concluded that pine oil has very high emission values, sometimes even higher than ordinary petrol and diesel. This is relevant. We pay – or at least we get lower tax revenues. And at best, we get some benefit and, at worst, negative benefit for the money. Madam President, I would like Then someone says that Sweden should be an example to the rest of the world. We want other countries to follow suit. But then it's like this: The world market is able to supply a small country like Sweden with 20 percent biofuels – we have seen that. But what if large economies follow in our footsteps? Yes, then the pressure on arable land will increase worldwide, and then we will definitely suffer from land-use change and increasing emissions. So we should be realistic. It's good to be realistic. If realistic targets are set, they can be achieved without necessarily having negative consequences. A realistic objective is to reach 10% biofuels in the transport mix by 2020, which is exactly what the EU requires. This demand, although it will be problematic, can be met with fine biofuels. It is therefore waste-based fuels that do not come directly from agricultural products and do not contribute to land use change. 10% is a high figure if you look at it from an EU perspective. Here one should pay attention to the development. However, this is not an unreasonable level. Madam President, I would like Another prerequisite for us to be able to get there is that we remove the tax exemption for pure HVO and E85. That is something the biofuels industry itself wants, by the way. Since HVO is fully tax-free today, there will be a high demand for this fuel. It drives up the demand for HVO and reduces the supply of these fuels in the context of the reduction obligation. Now, however, we are so irresponsible that we are moving forward with an extremely ambitious target too early. Then it is very likely that we will have a shortage situation as early as next year. There is something contradictory about wanting to increase the use of biofuels while at the same time tightening up the requirements. That is contradictory. It is good that we are tightening up the requirements. Therefore, the starting points of this proposal are good. We in the Swedish Democrats would like to see the requirements for biofuels tightened up further. For this very reason, however, it is important for the government to take this a turn and analyse the situation. We've talked a lot about PFAD today. This is not really something that is directly involved in the bill, but we know that it is indirectly affected. Then let me be clear. PFAD, like the agricultural biofuels, pure palm oil and pine oil, is not good. It has very bad emission values. Although PFAD is a residual product, the price of this residual product in relation to palm oil is too high to count it as a residual product. It should not be counted as a residual product in a longer perspective. The price today is about 80% of the price of pine oil. It is far too high for you to regard it as a residual product. Madam President, I would like Now we have a situation with a bad policy in the form of an excessive reduction obligation, which comes too early, and a situation with completely tax-exempt HVO on the other side. Then we will have a situation where instead it is a likely scenario that fuel dealers will start mixing only fossil fuels in the tank and take the penalty charge and put it on the consumer. Then we get a price on diesel that becomes just above the crown more expensive. That's the problem. Politics is not connected. They certainly have good intentions, but they are not sufficiently realistic. It is therefore a good thing that an announcement is addressed to the government and a hope that one takes this one more turn and thinks a little bit more.
i-7902612779595edc-444	Madam President, I would like Martin Kinnunen from the Swedish Democrats says: Politics is not connected. If there was something that was not connected, it was actually Martin Kinnunen's speech. That's why I have to ask you a few questions. Martin Kinnunen says he doesn't want palm oil in biofuels. He is generally opposed to many other forms of biofuels. Martin Kinnunen says that PFAD, which is to be made on residues from palm oil, is not really a sustainable product either. But, Martin Kinnunen, the whole point of the government proposal is to make stricter demands on residues, so that we get rid of bad biofuels. You are opposed to this. You say, "No, let's think about it a little bit more." You want what it is now. You haven't raised your own motion on this matter - note well! That is why we must actually ask the Swedish Democrats and Martin Kinnunen a few questions. Do you think it is a good idea to put environmental, climate and land use requirements on biofuels across the board? Do you think it is good that there is a so-called ILUC directive, which aims to do this? I would also like to know: do the Swedish Democrats want to reduce emissions from the transport sector at all? We have objectives for that, but as far as I know, the Swedish Democrats are not behind them. Do the Swedish Democrats want to reduce Sweden's greenhouse gas emissions at all? I said earlier that the bourgeois politicians suffer from the disease. But the Swedish democrats seem to suffer from the sickness, no, but. You're actually against everything, aren't you, Martin Kinnunen?
i-7902612779595edc-448	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the questions! I think I have been about the same as a lot of other representatives in the debate. This is not a good fuel. We don't want PFAD in the mix. The problem is that there are so many other proposals here, that it should go very quickly and that there is not enough fuel on the market. The effect here can be an increased price and no biofuels at all in the idea. Does anyone want it that way? I don't know. The government, with the support of the Left Party, has reduced the price of petrol and diesel in the budget. It is something that has not been very much discussed in the newspapers, on the contrary, but it is actually what has been done to try to compensate for the effects of a price increase on HVO. You can see that this is connected. Now you pretend that you want to make higher demands and that everything will go great, without you having done any analysis at all. Otherwise, as I said in the debate, it is positive that Jens Holm shows a great understanding of the effects of land use and that biofuels are not necessarily positive but can have harmful effects. At the same time, it is de facto that Jens Holm and the Left Party have pushed the development and to let these ugly biofuels into the Swedish market. It is thanks, among other things, to the Left Party that more rain forest is being destroyed than is necessary today. It would have been better if we had run on fossil fuels instead of palm oil-based fuels. I wonder how Jens Holm views this. Are you proud of what they have contributed to in the Swedish fuel sector?
i-7902612779595edc-454	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not really receive an answer to one of my questions. Do the Swedish Democrats want sustainability requirements for biofuels at all? Do the Swedish Democrats want to reduce emissions from the transport sector at all? Do the Swedish Democrats generally want a target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Sweden? The most interesting issue in this debate is precisely what this debate is about, namely the proposal put forward by the government with new definitions for biofuels based on waste and residues. The aim is to remove palm oil and make it more difficult to use palm oil in biofuels. The Swedish Democrats are opposed to that. It makes no sense! Martin Kinnunen says that the Left Party is responsible for the destruction of rainforests. But come on! It is you who have the chance to make tougher demands, but you do not seem to have understood this proposal at all. Or do you have any other solution far down in some drawer that you don't show? After all, you have not even put any motion in this report. How are the Swedish Democrats supposed to have it anyway? I don't understand it.
i-7902612779595edc-458	Madam President, I would like I may not think that Jens Holm listened carefully enough, but it is possible to look at this afterwards. After all, this is linked to the reduction obligation of almost 20% reduction very soon, as soon as next year. It is also linked to the full exemption on HVO and E85. All these things are connected. When we look at this bill, we think it is positive if we can raise the requirements for biofuels. But combined with these other bad proposals, it makes sense for us to try to mitigate the negative effects. The logical thing from my point of view was to make a specific statement. In any case, there was now an opportunity to get a majority for an announcement, and I think that was the least bad thing in this case. It's great with demands. We should make tougher demands. We should phase out agricultural-based fuels. Tall oil is probably not good either. We should invest in really fine biofuels made up of slaughterhouse waste and such products that we are using today – absolutely. We should work to reduce emissions but not necessarily in the Swedish transport sector. It doesn't matter. We have a global perspective. We should not stare blindly at this piece of cake, but we can reduce emissions elsewhere, such as phasing out coal power in other parts of the world, we achieve much more than if we stare blind at the little, little piece of cake in Sweden. We from the Swedish Democrats have not pushed the destruction of rainforest to get palm oil in the tank in Sweden. It is you other parties that have done so. We are completely innocent of that, and we have warned against the risks for a long time now.
i-7902612779595edc-465	Madam President, I would like Perhaps the matter before us is not of the broadest nature, and I would therefore try to be rather brief. Today it is the case that anyone who wants to act as a real estate agent must be registered with the Swedish Real Estate Supervisory Authority, which is a Swedish supervisory authority. Each year a registration fee is paid, which serves as a fee for the authority to be able to supervise the registered real estate brokers. Today we have a system in which anyone who does not pay the fee will be deregistered and therefore no longer be able to act as a real estate agent, which is, of course, reasonable. The problem, however, is that the Real Estate Inspectorate does not send out any payment reminders, so anyone who, out of mere negligence, forgets to pay his fee and thus gets unregistered creates a problem for himself but also for the authority, who is forced to spend administrative resources on granting re-entry to the real estate agent in question. That's why this bill is basically good. It is proposed to introduce a reminder procedure for those real estate agents who, for carelessness or other reasons, forget to pay their fee – quite rightly. As far as the Alliance is concerned, we have a small point of view, which is important in principle, namely that with the proposal of the bill it is also grounded for exclusion not to pay its reminder fee. Thus, when the reminder is sent out, a reminder fee is imposed to cover the administrative costs of the authority, which is entirely reasonable. In principle, however, one might ask why it is reasonable for a reminder fee of a purely civil nature to be able to base cancellation, the exclusion and impossibility of operating the business. A distinction must be made between what is a general supervisory fee on the one hand and what is a civil claim arising from the delay on the other. However, the government does not do so in this context, but rather it adds this and says that even failure to pay the reminder fee should enable you to be unregistered. As a result, the requirements for real estate brokers have been tightened up. Has that really been the intention? I thought that the purpose of this bill was to simplify and make the situation smoother for all parties involved. I therefore hope that representatives of the government parties will be able to report on this today. I would like to support the proposal contained in the report and the Alliance's joint reservation.
i-7902612779595edc-474	Madam President, I would like I may not fully agree with Mr Bohlin's description of the matter as a less important issue. We have a housing crisis of gigantic dimensions. Never before have so many found it so difficult to find a place to live. Too little housing is being built, and young people find it difficult to find a home that they can afford to buy. On the contrary, in many places the housing market is so cool that sellers find it difficult to find a buyer or even someone who wants to make a bid, despite the fact that the dwelling has been on sale for a long time. The government makes few proposals that would improve the housing market and facilitate construction, mobility and supply. We see a split not only between those who have and those who do not have a home but also between the city and the country. There is a wide range of sales with high prices around the major cities. The large brokerage offices with many and well-paid real estate agents are busy. At the same time, there is a weak housing market in many places where it is still difficult to find buyers for good and relatively new houses. In Hylte municipality in Halland you get a villa that is good and fairly new for between 500 000 SEK and 1 million SEK. Madam President, I would like In view of the differences in the housing market, we can look at the issue of how the registration fee for real estate agents should be designed and collected. It is simply different, depending on where in the country you are, how such a change in a reminder fee strikes. It is often not easy to find a person who can commit to being a broker under those circumstances. A seller may be forced to pay high fees when selling a house with a low market value and may ask himself the question: ..................................................... For some time, you can take on the role of real estate agent as a full-time job or as a side business in another company. We in the Center Party welcome the possibility of doing different things, but at the same time it is perfectly understandable that such a trader does not always pay full attention to the fact that the registration period as a real estate agent is about to expire and may miss paying when there is a reminder. It is important that the fee is paid in time and that a lengthy sale process of a hard-to-sale property can be completed without the seller having to replace the broker for failing to pay a fee. The role of the broker in housing sales is important. For both buyers and sellers, it can be about the most important business a person does in his life. It is therefore important for both the seller and the buyer to require brokers to be registered with an authority, Fastighetsmäklarinspektionen, which can supervise, inform and take action against those who are rogue. On the whole, it is good that non-payment of the registration fee means that the permit to act as a real estate agent ends, but knowing how different it may look in the country and that there is a different reality from what we see in the big newspapers' house sales ads, we should think about how we should look at the proposal. Madam President, I would like It is important to listen to the consultation bodies. It is well described in the report that the industry is keen to see reminders, but not as far-reaching as the government wants. We see it as a major problem that the non-payment of the late payment fee would also mean the immediate withdrawal of the authorisation. A paid registration fee – albeit late – should be enough to remain active and be able to carry out the property sales that have started and that may be delayed. Of course, like other debts, a late payment fee should be collected and, if necessary, handed over to the enforcement officer for recovery. The Government shows with the proposal, as it is written, how little understanding you have for the reality of small businesses when the deposit of the reminder fee will condition the continuation of a business for a small real estate agent. If you miss paying the fee, the permit to operate immediately! After all, the proposal seems to me to be a good reminder for continuity. We believe that it is exactly the opposite. It is problematic if the forgetfulness of paying in after a separate reminder has been sent out to an address that the operator does not use regularly has such consequences. And we know how little faith has become in the country for the postal distribution; we simply no longer trust that letters come forward. Madam President, I would like A reminder fee shall be introduced and shall finance the inspection's work to keep the register up-to-date, as proposed by the Government. We are in favour of this proposal, on which Mr Bohlin referred. But the person who forgets to pay the reminder will be reminded again through debt collection, and if necessary, the debt will be collected by the bailiff. Before that happens, you should be able to continue your business as a real estate agent. That is why I am in favour of the alliance parties' reservation, which means that an unpaid reminder fee should not form the basis for deregistration from the real estate register.
i-7902612779595edc-488	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the CU4 report to be approved. I would add that I intend to stick to the matter and not to make a speech on housing policy today. We Social Democrats support the proposal to introduce a reminder procedure and a reminder fee in the event of non-payment of the annual fee that real estate agents are required to pay under the Real Estate Act. Each real estate agent must be registered with the Real Estate Inspectorate in accordance with the Real Estate Contracts Act. The broker must also pay a registration fee, including an annual fee. In November 2015, the Swedish Real Estate Authority submitted a letter to the Ministry of Finance requesting amendments to the Real Estate Regulation, among other things. The Authority pointed out that the non-payments create a significant administrative burden for the Authority. Against this background, the Ministry of Finance prepared the memorandum Reminder for non-payment of the annual fee according to the Real Estate Act. Under the current regime, the registration of a broker shall be withdrawn without reminder after non-payment if it cannot be considered sufficient that the broker receives a warning or reminder. If the offence is minor, the broker may avoid being punished. The purpose of the Government's proposal is to enable the Swedish Real Estate Authority to handle non-payments in a more efficient way than hitherto and also to provide cost recovery for the Authority's handling of non-payments. According to the Authority, in 2016 2 319 registered brokers did not pay the fee until 15 March, the deadline for payment. A large number of brokers came in with payment on 16 March, namely 2 018. This did not mean that those brokers were disfellowshipped or deregistered, but rather the opposite. Rather, about 300 today could be covered by the new reminder procedures. It can also be mentioned that of the 330 – the number that diffed – 161 registered brokers had their registration withdrawn. It's not that just because you've missed a day, you're automatically unregistered. We believe that a reminder fee should be charged in the event of non-payment of the annual fee. The amount of the fee should be set at a level corresponding to the estimated costs incurred by the Authority in dealing with reminders. In order also to ensure that the costs of handling foregone fees are covered, non-payment of the reminder fee, as in the case of other fees under the Real Estate Act, should constitute a basis for withdrawing a broker's registration. Now remember what I've said before. You are not disfellowshipped because you miss the payment date by two or three days. The 161 that were deregistered were over a month and a half late with the payment. On the other hand, most of those who were late with some day received either a warning, a reminder or if the delay was considered to be minor no penalty at all. I think there are rhymes and reasonables in paying bills on time. If you pay bills on time, that's not a problem. Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to support the proposal contained in the CU4 report.
i-7902612779595edc-499	Madam President, I would like For many, boating is an important part of the holiday and to relax. A rich archipelago life is also important for permanent residents' opportunities to live and work in this type of sparsely populated area. Swedish boating spans all social classes. A majority of recreational shipowners take a major responsibility for safety, well-being and the environment. For those who do not have experience in boating, it can be easy to mix with car traffic – but the differences are large. Roads are narrow, and cars go fast. Fjords are large, and there are few places where there is a risk of collision. And where there is a risk there are often speed limits. On land, you can reach a neighbor by foot or by taxi. On the lake, the boat is often the only option. When the Sea Drunk Act was introduced, it was noted that boating has many similarities with driving. Therefore, the same per mille rules were also used for boats. However, it was already known that the number of accidents in the range of boats covered by the sea-filling legislation is extremely small. It was also not entirely obvious that a strict limit of per mille would strengthen safety at sea. These are also reasons that have been put forward in our neighbouring countries. They don't have a similar law. Now the law has existed for seven seasons. There is great dissatisfaction among those who live out in the archipelago but also among many who use a boat. A law must have effect. Therefore, I am pleased that my motion, among other things, is going through and that the Riksdag is clear in its announcement to the government that the law should be evaluated. The committee notes that it is important to follow up decided legislation and that follow-up should consider the need for amendments to the law. With this, I support the proposal.
i-7902612779595edc-506	Madam President, I would like On 1 June 2010, the Law introduced a fixed lower limit of 0.2 per mille alcohol in the blood. The liability applies to those who carry out an essential task for the safety of the sea in front of a ship or otherwise on a ship, provided that the ship can operate at a speed of at least 15 knots or has a hull of a maximum length of at least 10 metres. That was the proposal that was put forward, and it has been in force since 2010. As the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs now states, the conditions and risks at sea are such that, if you are under the influence of alcohol, similar situations will arise as in road traffic. It can therefore be said that there are essentially similarities between driving a vehicle on land and driving a vehicle on the sea. I am pleased that the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs has stated in agreement that there is such a consensus. Since the introduction of this law by the bourgeois government, there has been a broad consensus among the parties that this is an order that we continue to want. Madam President, I would like I myself am a boat owner and find myself much of the summer out in the archipelago. For me as a boat owner, it is extremely important that I can feel security when I am on the lake. The tendency that we see in the area where I often stay is that in recent years we have got in very fast boats or watercraft that drive at tremendous speed. For the safety of both me and my family, it is extremely important that I know that these vehicles are first and foremost operated wisely and responsibly by those who drive them. That goes without saying. But it is also important for me to know that those who drive these vehicles are not under the influence of alcohol. I think that should be a matter of course. Madam President, I would like This issue has been debated over the years, high and low and in different ways. I am the first to note that the issue is not simple. As Mrs Szyber said in her speech earlier, this is a multifaceted issue, in which, in some respects, boat traffic cannot be fully compared with car traffic because there are people living in the archipelago who sometimes have to get in and so on. Of course, the issue is complex, and that is one of the reasons why it is extremely important that we now get to grips with it and find out whether the legislation has had any effect and whether to make any changes. The government has already done an internal follow-up work. Data have been obtained from the Swedish Crime Prevention Council, the Coast Guard and the police. On 20 March this year, a memorandum was drawn up which noted, among other things, that the number of registered sea fillers has fallen. Brå also notes that the sea-fillings that have been prosecuted have been reduced and that serious infringements of the law have been reduced. Furthermore, the Coast Guard notes that the number of offences detected during the checks carried out has decreased. Finally, both the Police Authority and the Coast Guard note that there has actually been a change of attitude towards alcohol in connection with boat traffic and that this is very likely to be due to the law passed in 2010. The picture is therefore that, in combination with the controls carried out, the legislation has had a preventive effect on sea-filling. The lives that can be saved are to be saved, and in that I see increased maritime safety as something extremely important. What is also extremely important to me and the reason why we have supported this is that this is an issue where there should be no political disagreement. Just as there was a broad majority in the Riksdag for these proposals when the law came in 2010, there should be one now. That is why, together with the entire Committee on Civil Liberties, we have supported a review of the legislation in order to find out what effects the law has had and in what ways we can review the legislation in order to make it even clearer and even better for the future.
i-7902612779595edc-517	Madam President, I would like The Alliance government introduced the Sea Drunk Act in order to increase safety at sea. To increase safety on the lake was and is a laudable ambition that probably few are against, just as Johan Löfstrand said. The rules cover a minimum per mille content of 0.2 and apply to boats capable of operating at speeds exceeding 15 knots or having a hull of at least 10 metres. However, the law has been and is very much discussed and questioned by those who live in the archipelago and use a boat often. The outcome of the legislation is largely positive, says representatives of maritime police and coastguards, but the legislation receives criticism from boat organisations who believe that people who do not pose a danger at sea are criminalised. In view of the fact that the Law has now been in force for seven years, it is appropriate to carry out an evaluation of its effects as well as a review of a possible need for amendments to the Act. I am pleased that a united committee is proposing a review. Madam President, I would like Let me make no secret of the fact that I believe we should have legislation that is the same in the Nordic countries. In Finland, the per mill limit is 1.0 in Denmark 0.5 and in Norway 0.8, according to the Parliamentary Investigation Service. I would also like to point out that, in general, legislation must be in line with what is considered to be right and legitimate. Otherwise, there is a risk that it only creates conflicts and problems, in this case with the residents and active in the archipelago. In other cases, such as at home in my constituency, it may be a matter of predatory problems. Those who are most in favour of the law – often associated sobriety organisations – say that you should have the same legislation for cars as for boats. But it can't be compared. Just to take one example, Madam President: how often have you been overtaken by an eight-year-old on the E4? Boat traffic cannot be compared to car traffic. Speeds are often significantly lower and margins much higher. Weather, wind and boat design often have a major impact on driving, which makes wider experience more important than, for example, driving. If the comparison with car traffic is to last, why do we not have driving licence requirements, age limit and life jacket requirements on the lake? If the aim is to increase safety at sea and reduce drowning accidents, a life jacket would be much more effective. However, I would like to emphasise the personal responsibility of everyone to protect their safety at sea, for example with a life jacket. The Navy Act is legally insecure in its application and does not make sea life safer – it is an idea that I often encounter when I meet the boat people. Sweden should introduce a zero vision of drowning in the same way as we have a target of zero deaths in traffic. If there should, of course, be broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament. But then it is also important to have effective measures that really reduce the number of drownings. The legislation sets a limit for sea-filling at 0.2 per mille and allows routine checks without suspicion of crime. For boats under 10 metres and boats less than 15 knots, the same rules apply as before, i.e. police and coastguards have the right to stop them and check sobriety if one can suspect that the boat driver is under the influence of alcohol. It is therefore better that an inexperienced ten - year - old without a driver's certificate in front of the family's fast boat than that a seaman's parent who has had a glass of wine drives the boat. Madam President, I would like The law strikes just as blindly at the one in front of a boat at five knots over an open distance as against the one who at high speed drives it in narrow passages. The law also means that any person on the boat who can be considered to be responsible for the important functions of maritime safety can be punished for sea-filling. Exactly what functions are unclear, and this makes the legislation unclear, according to those operating in the archipelago. Maritime safety is important, and the resources of the police and the Coast Guard should be used for actions that really mean that fewer people die on the lake instead of spending time doing general sobriety checks – controls that so far have doubts about whether they have any impact on maritime safety, according to those I have met. Many Moderates in the Swedish Parliament and in other contexts have tried in various ways, through motions, written questions, interpellations and seminars this spring, to alert the government to its election promise to evaluate the legislation. It is, of course, gratifying that the Riksdag is today making a decision on the evaluation of the Sea Drunk Act. A review is likely to involve small but important adjustments that make the law legitimate and not criminalise people unnecessarily and contribute to the management of society's resources and to a safe but also welcoming sea life. I think my colleague Caroline Szyber very well described how nice and good it is with boating. Finally, I would like to point out that it is now important for the government to follow Parliament's decision on an evaluation and that it will be an impartial evaluation that can be trusted and that creates respect for boaters, naval police, coastguards and sobriety organisations. The example of horror in an investigation is the so-called Reepalus inquiry on welfare gains, where the government appointed in advance an investigator who would arrive at the government's requested conclusion. This does not create confidence in either the government or the investigative services. I get a little worried when Johan Löfstrand refers to the memorandum that is at the Ministry of Justice, because it is very much debated among the boat people. But I hope that there will be an independent and reliable investigation and that the government will really put it in the water. I also support the committee's proposal.
i-7902612779595edc-536	Madam President, I would like We all agreed on the need for this evaluation in committee, so I thought I would go into the background to our position. The Swedish Democrats are driven by the idea of stewardship: that we manage our country while waiting for our children and grandchildren to take over. During our time here we will deal with our country in the best way, and of course we want to hand over as good a society as possible to our descendants, just as they before us tried to create as good a society as possible for us. In the management idea is also to constantly evaluate and improve the regulatory framework that we usually call laws. The laws have different meanings, but the basic idea is that they should lead us on the right path. Laws are designed not only to prevent what may be in danger of harming others at the moment, but also to show what kind of society we want in the future. Already Karl XV realized this when he chose his election language, which was a country to be built by law. Madam President, I would like In order to build a country with laws, it is necessary that the laws are respected by the majority of the population. People respect laws if they think they are good and understand why they exist. I think everyone agrees that it would not be a good idea if there were no restrictions at all on drinking at sea. It would be viewed as distressing in a number of ways, yet it will immediately be difficult to set a definite limit. It may seem strange that a boat that makes less than 15 knots may be driven at 14 knots after drinking, provided that the person can drive it safely, while a similar boat with a maximum speed of 16 knots may not be driven at all, even at very low speed. This becomes illogical based on the risk of injury. Madam President, I would like According to a united committee, the government should evaluate the extended criminal liability for sea-filling introduced in 2010, something that we, the Swedish democrats, also support. When you now evaluate the law on the use of water, you should of course look at all aspects, so that we can rightly say that this law works as it is intended and that the restrictions are set on the basis of good and logical reasoning. If the law needs to be adjusted or amended in order to achieve the required effect, the government should of course also return with changes to the law. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-7902612779595edc-542	Madam President, I would like At last, the Parliament will agree to want to evaluate the heavily criticised sea-filling law. As is often the case when it comes to our attitudes to alcohol, its use, accessibility and possible harmful effects, there are differences of opinion, which do not always follow party or block boundaries. It is therefore particularly gratifying that we in the Committee on Civil Liberties have reached full agreement on the need to evaluate the law on sea-filling. The Navy Act states that 0.2 per mil should be the highest limit for driving a pleasure boat. The majority of those who have called for an evaluation on this issue have considered that that limit should be set higher and at least in line with what applies in other countries, for example around the Baltic Sea, namely 0.5 per mil. But, Madam President, as a first step, there will be an evaluation, and I assume that the government will urgently ensure that it is carried out. I agree with Lars Beckman and Caroline Szyber that it is important for the government to carry out the evaluation in such a way that it becomes independent and not politicised, but based on fact. It is also important that, as soon as possible after the elections, we have a new government made up of the four alliance parties, which can start work on changing the law in a more liberal direction. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-7902612779595edc-545	Madam President, I would like On 1 June 2010, the Law introduced a fixed lower limit of 0.2 per mil of alcohol into the blood. The law covers ships at a speed of at least 15 knots or with a hull of at least 10 metres. The penalty for serious sea-filling was also extended so that liability can follow directly at an alcohol concentration of at least 1.0 per mille. I myself am a boat owner and love to be out on the sea among the cobblers and skerries in our beautiful archipelago. Although our boat is not covered by the law because it is both a little too small and a little too slow, my husband or I would never think of driving a boat under the influence of alcohol or other drugs. We want to feel safe on the lake, and we also want our surroundings to feel safe. The activities of restaurants and other entertainment establishments along the coasts and in the archipelago areas have increased and thus the opportunities for alcohol consumption, not least in connection with leisure shipping. I fully understand anyone who wants to take a few glasses of wine or beer while on the lake during the holiday, but I do not understand why you can not then stay in port. It's quite obvious that you become a worse boat driver if you have alcohol in your body, but it doesn't seem to be quite everyone who realizes that. Those who have taken a few drinks may not realize for themselves that they are affected and have a worse judgment. Then it is good that there is clear legislation. We have responsibility not only for our own, but also for the safety of our environment. I believe that the Sea Drunk Act has helped to get many people to think about and plan their stay on the lake so that it is possible to combine a wonderful boating life with sober boating. Opponents of the legislation often argue that there is a difference between putting a vehicle on the sea and doing so on land. I'm having a bit of a hard time seeing a big difference. For example, it may be so crowded in some waters and ports – I have experienced that myself when I have been out. The number of recreational craft has increased in recent years and is estimated to be around 750 000 or more. In addition, leisure traffic with foreign boats in Swedish waters. Furthermore, recreational boats are generally larger and faster today than before. If you have a fast boat, you may not have time to react in time to avoid an accident. It can also become more difficult to stay alert and follow GPS and charts with alcohol in your body. Although legislation is unpopular in some noisy circles, it is popular with the public. This shows, for example, the Swedish Transport Agency's latest boating survey from 2015, where 88 per cent of respondents were in favour of the law. According to the question, it had had a very limited impact on boating. The Lifesaving Society has also carried out a study that shows that eight out of ten Swedes think the law is good. During the time the legislation has been in force, the number of suspected sea-filling offences has decreased annually in relation to the number of checks carried out. Both the Police Authority and the Coast Guard have noted a change of attitude towards alcohol in connection with boating and that most seem to comply with the new legislation. There is, of course, more to do to further strengthen safety at sea, as has been pointed out here from the speaker's seat, and there is reason to discuss these issues further. For that reason, however, I do not think that we should weaken maritime safety by loosening the legislation on sea-driving. On the other hand, it is entirely justified to review and evaluate the functioning of the legislation during the time it has been in force to see whether further adjustments need to be made in any direction. That's why we're behind the announcement.
i-7902612779595edc-557	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the fourth of the discussion papers prepared by the European Commission in connection with the White Paper on the future of Europe. Today it is about the future of European defence. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our alliance-wide motive reservation. Madam President, I would like The world in which we live is troubled and rapidly changing. The new US administration has signalled a different view of its role in the world, and the UK has decided to leave the EU and shaken our foreign and security policy structure. At the same time, the problems around us continue to pile up. We have Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and destabilising actions in eastern Ukraine – the Russian aggression. These two events have torn apart the security structure that has been in place in Europe for many years. South and south-east of the EU – in the Middle East and Africa – there are ongoing conflicts. There is still a battle against international terrorism in the form of Daish, and we see that this terrorism affects many of Europe's countries. We also have a nuclear threat that is more concrete today than before. North Korea has grown stronger and continues with its aggressive rhetoric and tests to develop full nuclear capability. China is working to increase its influence, and with the last party congress it became clear that China sees it as now starting a new era where it also wants to export its political system. Madam President, I would like Many of these threats and challenges are cross-border and can essentially, as we see it, only be solved through cooperation, not least our European cooperation. We need stronger European cooperation in a number of areas in order to face the difficulties we face. We need a stronger common voice in foreign policy and even deeper transatlantic cooperation. EU cooperation is therefore of great importance for our common security, and this is something that we share with our European neighbours. It is then natural to both defend and strengthen European cooperation in general and European defence cooperation in particular. EU Member States need to deepen defence policy cooperation in order to deal with crises and conflicts. However, we do not believe that more structures and institutions are needed in the first place, but above all more effective cooperation. The basis on which it should be based is the global strategy developed and presented by the EU in 2016. The aim of the strategy is to strengthen the EU as a global player, through a coherent vision of the EU's external relations and a more efficient use of the resources at its disposal. The strategy provides the framework for EU foreign and security policy action, which is why it is both natural and important to build on the strategy in the development of European defence cooperation. Madam President, I would like We Moderates share a common view with the Alliance. We believe that Sweden should be the driving force in developing defence cooperation in areas where there are obvious cooperation and efficiency gains and where the cooperation increases Swedish defence capabilities and the EU-wide defence capability. At the same time, it is important that there are no further structures and that things like the EU or perhaps NATO in particular already be duplicated. It is also important to see in this cooperation how we can involve Britain, which represents a great and strong military capacity and which facilitates the transatlantic link, if possible on the basis of the withdrawal that Britain now wants to make. As I said, we are in favour of the EU developing its defence and security policy cooperation, but we do not want us from Sweden to give up decision-making rights over our national defence. So we do not see a common European army ahead of us, but rather it is in other ways that we can deepen our cooperation. I do not really think that so many countries really see this. I visited Berlin yesterday, and on the question of whether the German side has a final objective in terms of enhanced defence cooperation, the answer was given: no, a common army is probably not something that we will see in our lifetime, but it is not something that we can decide on today either. This shows that there is a desire to move forward, but the vision – a common European army – is far away. It probably suits us in Sweden quite well. Areas where we need to deepen our cooperation can include intelligence work, cyber issues, having a better coordinated capability development, being able to make efforts together, working towards common situational images and looking at joint transport capabilities. They are well suited to deepening European defence cooperation. We also do not want to see the development entailing significant new costs. It will be problematic to have room for everything that the EU wants to do with Britain leaving the Union, and we do not want the EU budget to continue to grow. Rather, we need to look at other areas of the budget if it turns out that this is starting to cost more money. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, we see this as a positive development. We are not going to take a position on anything today; that is a statement. What we regret is that the red-green government has been rather slow. Recently, the government has made it clear that this is something that you welcome and that you want to get involved in, but it has taken a long time. I also lack clear priorities for what the government wants to achieve with European defence cooperation. We do not know everything yet, Madam President. The contours will become clearer and the shapes increasingly firm, and they will be, whether Sweden is in the stands or in the stands. My opinion is that we should not sit in the gallery and just wait and see. We will actively participate in the debate and design this so that it suits the other Member States but of course also based on Swedish interests. Then it is important to be proactive and be involved at an early stage, so that you can influence the development in the direction you want to see.
i-7902612779595edc-576	Madam President, I would like We have a motive reservation, which we naturally support. We believe from the Swedish Democrats that the EU is moving towards more and more supranationality. In all areas, the EU and non-elected politicians are trying to advance their positions. Three different scenarios are now being presented for the path towards a Security and Defence Union. That's how you write. Anyone who does not see this pointing to a common security and defence union must be rather naive, I think. This is what we are very concerned about. It is expressed that the EU needs to strengthen its defence and security. Sure! That's what you're doing now. At last, we have understood what we have said for a long time: that one must invest in one's own defence. The United States, with its new president, does not want to pay to build up the armies in Europe. He says, "You'll have to do it yourself. Bet properly – at least 2 percent! And you do. This does not apply to Sweden, but in many other countries it goes up to 2% and even more than that. This, as we understand it, is meant to mean that Europe must strengthen its security, as the President of the United States says. The Alliance parties voted a while ago in favour of a common defence in the EU. Have you left it, or is it still valid for all your parties? We really think that we should be very careful about participating in these security and defence cooperation within the framework of the European Union. There are areas that are important to work in. So do we. But I think we should take a stand, put our feet down and say a much clearer no to a common defence, a common defence industry and so on. Although the government and the committee underline that the security and defence policy is the competence of the Member States themselves, that is to say an intergovernmental project, we still believe that this is a question of constantly moving forward positions more and more towards supranationality within the EU. It doesn't have to be that way, but I think you should be clearer, put your foot down and say no to this. One should participate and discuss but be clear every time, instead of repeatedly saying what we shouldn't – it shows a weakness, I think. France's former President Hollande marked a change in a speech in the European Parliament in 2013, where he said that the EU should introduce a common defence. He was quite clear about it, as was his successor. Then, as it were, we can be vigorously deployed where necessary. Here, we think, we are building double structures. It will be a parallel function to NATO. As I have just said, you voted in favour of a common European defence, including a military EU headquarters and fixed EU military structures. You have voted in favour of this. It gets a little weird when you debate and say that we should retain our sovereignty, that cooperation should be intergovernmental and that we should defend this when you vote differently in the European Union. Or haven't you? Am I wrong? Juncker wants to add to this. With its own army, Europe could react more credibly to a threat to peace in a Member State or a neighbouring country, he has said. Where, then, did NATO go? The NATO countries are now building their strong defences together. They're strengthening the defense everywhere. It will eventually increase in Sweden, too, if the Liberals' and the Swedish Democrats' budgets were to go through. Then we'll have stronger defenses. I commend our reservation.
i-7902612779595edc-586	Madam President, I would like Roger Richtoff can't really decide who's in charge. First of all, a lot of these questions will be addressed to the government responsible in Sweden now for how it is voted and decided in the EU's various Councils of Ministers. But to start with, what's this all about? What's the statement about? What are the proposals about? Yes, this is one way of showing different ways forward for how the EU will be able to cooperate in the area of defence policy and security policy in the future. Defence matters have a special position. They do not have the same status as other policy areas. This is intergovernmental, and it is up to national decisions of their own, such as participation in an EU-led training mission or in some other form of EU-led action. Neither the Red-Green Government nor the Alliance have said that we would in any way give up. I believe that there is a broad consensus that we want to retain the opportunity to control our own defence at national level. It is quite clear that Europe needs to take greater responsibility for its own security. I can agree with Roger Richtoff that this has not been done sufficiently. It has been comfortable to be able to sit back and hope that someone else will help you. On the other hand, we have two different joint declarations of solidarity that promise to help each other with solidarity in the event of an attack. I must try to clarify what the Swedish Democrats think. You are probably not even in favour of the EU having a common foreign policy. How does Roger Richtoff view the EU's role as a global player?
i-7902612779595edc-590	Madam President, I would like We believe that the EU has an important role to play in certain areas, such as the cyber area. What we are opposed to are such things as the clear wording that the Commission is presenting three different scenarios for the path towards a Security and Defence Union. We react very strongly when you write like that. I think it should be made clearer that Sweden does not think so. We are absolutely against such writing and want to avoid that type of writing. Europe needs to strengthen its defence. But Europe is very involved in NATO, as Karin Enström knows very well. We interpret the US statement as saying that Europe must strengthen its own defence forces. Sweden does not. We think that Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist and the Social Democrats have actually done a good job in this paragraph. But we also think that the government is too unclear. We have a concern that this will move the positions forward. In the next debate we will talk about the fund to be set up and the common defence industry. We see the signs everywhere, and that is what we are expressing concern about. That is also why we are writing another justification, where we are clearer about putting our foot down. However, in many areas the EU has an important role to play, if only in other crises. It does not have to be about war, it can be about pandemics or anything else. We need to work together in Europe in many areas, but we should not have more supranationality in this paragraph.
i-7902612779595edc-594	Madam President, I would like I don't really know how to interpret the answer. I understand that on most issues the Swedish Democrats are not attracted by any supranationalism at all, but that is obviously appropriate in some areas. I think it is clear from what other parties have said that we see this as an intergovernmental project. The Commission has tried to look forward to the future of the EU as a whole and has identified a number of options. We have not selected an alternative in this opinion, which I do not believe was the purpose of this publication either. Rather, the aim was to stimulate a debate. I think it is extremely important that we in Sweden decide, regardless of how you view membership of NATO. After all, it is no secret that we in the Alliance believe that this would be the single most important decision to strengthen our security. Regardless of this, however, we in the European Union must find a way to improve our cooperation on these issues, precisely in order to make us more effective. Does Roger Richtoff not think that it can be better when it comes to capability development and to cooperate in a number of areas where one can both learn from one another and become more effective in everything from crisis management to developing one's own capabilities?
i-7902612779595edc-598	Madam President, I would like I see no problem in doing this in certain areas. But again, what we are reacting to is the letter here. There are a number of sentences that clearly point out what we are moving towards: supranationality in defence and security. We don't want it. We really want to make sure that this is an intergovernmental matter, and we think it should be much clearer. You should put your foot down and say no to a defence union. We should not vote in favour of a common defence in the EU and then give the impression that it is something intergovernmental. That is what we think looks a little strange, because you have voted for this – or am I wrong? It will be a rhetorical question, but someone else can go up and comment on this later. Of course, there are areas where we will work together. No problem – we already do that today. But we are opposed to this letter. We do not want supranationality in this area.
i-7902612779595edc-602	Madam President, I would like The Center Party welcomes the open debate on the future that has been initiated with regard to the development of the EU. This is important, and this is part of this discussion. As has already been said, today we are dealing with the fourth discussion paper that has been presented. It is based on the Commission's White Paper, which came earlier this year. The three scenarios outlined in this document, towards a Security and Defence Union, are not the subject of concrete positions but are rather to be seen as a picture of the different levels of ambition of the Member States. A discussion on this is, of course, important and welcome. Tomorrow won't be like the day. We can be sure of that. Europe is a process that is influenced by our world around us and by the challenges that we face there. Just as when we are equipping Sweden, we must jointly equip Europe to meet the challenges that we face, the needs that we cannot meet ourselves and the cross-border problems that we have to face. This also applies, of course, to our security. For us, it is clear that we are building security with others – not as soloists. We are not politically non-aligned. We have solidarity, and that is also very clear. This requires more than just words of solidarity, Madam President. It also requires the ability to show solidarity. In order to be able to show solidarity and act accordingly, one must also have trained. This applies here at home as well as in our neighborhood, if we are to deliver. As I said, based on the fact that we want to develop common security, we need a better ability than we have had so far to be able to face the threats and destabilisation to which we are exposed. We've all been in agony over our battlegroups, which we've been there with but never had the ability to actually use. This is an example that shows that we are providing resources that cannot be used effectively. Here we need to show more ability. However, as has already been shown, we shall do this as a complement to NATO – that is our unequivocal position. We will ensure close cooperation with the UK if they leave the EU. It is important that our ability development within the EU also aims to strengthen and secure the transatlantic link, so that we are not perceived in any way as alternative or competing, as there are some on our continent who want to see. We are living in a deteriorating security situation – there is no doubt about that. Russian aggression is still ongoing in Ukraine, and Russia is still active in Georgia – do not forget Georgia in this context! In addition to these, there are more unresolved conflicts on our continent. The illegal annexation of Crimea is still ongoing, and nothing indicates that the Russian side is moving to go back to the common security regime that we have agreed on. Here, we in the EU must demonstrate the ability not only to stand up with sanctions until something happens on the ground that changes the situation so that it returns to the current order – we must also demonstrate that we have the strength to deal with any other threats to our security. It can be about terrorist or cyber threats, which have been touched on before, or what is happening in the broad Middle East, if that expression is to be used. The conflict in Syria is an obvious area, and we also see how the risk of spreading to other parts of the Middle East is evident at the moment, which is very serious. Here, too, we must be able to demonstrate opportunities and ability to act together. Madam President, I would like While maintaining the decision-making power of our national defence, we need to create a better capacity. We are not going to build an EU army, but we are going to cope with civilian crisis management and we are going to secure a broader overall defence perspective also when we talk about Europe. We are going to move forward in the field of research, which will be discussed in forthcoming debates. It is also about transport capacity and opportunities not only to talk about but also to act for common security. Once again, it is important that the security that we are building together with NATO be built. With this, Madam President, I support the joint reservation on reasons 1 in this opinion.
i-7902612779595edc-618	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, the security policy situation that is generating a new and perhaps almost unprecedented pace in the development of the common defence and security policy. The previous speaker has exemplified the uncertainty of the time we are living in with IS and with more or less regular terrorist attacks on our own continent. It's about the Russian aggression. Kerstin Lundgren reminds us that there are Russian soldiers both in Ukraine and in Georgia, and, Madam President, there are also Russian soldiers in Moldova. And there is no indication that political developments in Russia will take a different turn. One should also be honest and say that trust and trust in the transatlantic link have partly come in a new light in recent years. This is partly a question of uncertainty about the commitment of the United States in the light of the new President, and it is partly about, as Roger Richtoff said, the American more or less constant calls for Europe to take greater responsibility for its own security. Ten years ago, the common defence and security policy was also a rather hot topic, and we discussed the possibility of a European headquarters. After that debate, France re-entered into NATO's military cooperation. It is my view that the overlap risks are today significantly lower than they were ten years ago. The NATO summit in Warsaw in 2016 finally agreed on coordination between the defence and security efforts made both within NATO and within the EU. In the fateful year of 2014, there was a new pressure in European Union policy. It has taken forms such as the European Defence Fund EDF and also permanent security cooperation Pesco. What we are critical of in the Alliance is that the government is closest to backing into this process. You don't have a really glowing commitment. It emphasises intergovernmentalism and how important it is that there should not be joint funding and so on. This is done despite the fact that at the same time it is known that Sweden will probably still join the collaborations that are offered. In just a few minutes from now, we will be discussing the European Defence Fund and Sweden's access to it, and a proposal is announced by the government within a few weeks concerning access also to permanent cooperation. The problem, Madam President, is that if we do not have a welcoming, open and committed attitude, once we are in the various collaborations, it will affect the image of Sweden. Do we appear contradictory or do we appear to be a country which sees the opportunities and wants to be involved in the right direction at an early stage? That is why there is a motive reservation from the Alliance, and I would like to support it. Roger Richtoff points out that NATO is now making great efforts to increase its military capabilities, and that is quite correct. But that does not prevent many of the NATO countries that are also members of the European Union from continuing to make further efforts in other areas. In my opinion, we cannot do too much in the short term in any way in terms of the possibility of preparing ourselves for greater security concerns, so I am prepared to welcome both. Then it is well that the Swedish Democrats do not want Sweden to be a member of either the European Union or NATO. I am sorry, Madam President. Sweden today has many bilateral security policy cooperations, and that can be good enough. For small countries, however, it is multilateral cooperation that gives us comparative advantages, and that is where we should participate fully.
i-7902612779595edc-627	Madam President, I would like Five documents have been presented as a follow-up to the European Commission's White Paper on the future of the European Union – five documents aimed at raising debate and having a discussion on what we want with European cooperation and in what direction the European Union should go. Today's debate is based on the fourth document, on the future of European defence, a most urgent issue in the troubled times in which we live. Europe faces major and complex security threats, instability and war in our neighbourhood, terrorist threats and cyber attacks. It is important both for our own security and for global security that EU cooperation is developed in this area. The discussion paper contains a safety policy analysis. On this basis, the Commission has presented three different scenarios for enhanced cooperation in the field of security and defence policy. The first scenario, Madam President, is based on the fact that Member States cooperate more often than before, but that cooperation remains mostly voluntary and that the EU complements Member States' efforts. The EU continues to send out military and civilian operations, and those Member States that can and will be able to take the lead in major operations. However, the Commission itself concludes that such a development would make it impossible for the EU to jointly take on the most demanding tasks. In the second scenario, EU cooperation in the field of defence becomes a rule rather than an exception. Common planning, management and logistics structures are set up at EU level and a common military culture is promoted. Further steps are being taken towards an internal market for defence equipment. In the third and most far-reaching scenario outlined by the Commission, the national armed forces are integrated and regularly carry out joint exercises in order to develop a European military culture. The aim is not for us to vote here and now on one of these scenarios, but, as the Commission itself puts it, the scenarios should show at different levels of ambition. And let us be honest, Madam President: of course, different Member States also have different levels of ambition in terms of how far cooperation in the field of security and defence policy should go. The British decision to leave the EU was barely made public before some EU politicians began to cry out that it is now time to set up an EU army. Therefore, we cannot just discuss what we want defence cooperation to look like in the future. The government must also be proactive and clear about what we want with this cooperation and where the limits are for such cooperation. As mentioned earlier, EU negotiations are taking place in parallel with the White Paper scenarios that we are now debating. That is why we Christian Democrats, together with the other alliance parties, stress in a motivational reservation that we should not give up the power of decision over our national defence. We do not want to see a common European army, and the EU should not duplicate what NATO is already doing. Nor do we want to see a Europe turning away from our British friends. British participation in European security is central and will also be so in the future. That is an insight that must reach Brussels. Developed cooperation in the field of defence should be financed through transfers and new priorities in the EU budget. It is time to pool resources in those areas where EU cooperation can make a real difference, and this is one such area. From the Swedish side, we must also focus on how we ourselves can contribute to a better European defence cooperation, while of course it is highly relevant to question how Sweden's interests are defended in an increasingly close cooperation. How does this affect our defence industry, for example? It is important that EU cooperation is now progressing in the area of defence and security policy. The analysis in the Commission's discussion paper rightly points to a number of common security policy risks and threats that need to be met by common forces. Therefore, we also welcome the fact that cooperation is deepened in areas such as intelligence work, cyber attacks and improving joint response capabilities. Madam President, I would like The fact that future discussions are taking place in all Member States is positive. The Commission's basis is thought-provoking, and the initiative is a constructive way out of a negative trend. The EU is and will remain a central forum for Swedish foreign and security policy. Five decades ago, Mr Adenauer spoke about the future of Europe. He said that political union should result in the development of a coordinated foreign policy for free Europe, and that the American partner of the Euro-Atlantic alliance should be relieved by the increased formation of Europe. ..................................................... It is still a highly topical message. Our world needs a strong Europe and NATO. But the world does not need a Europe that dreams of the emergence of European military cultures, as mentioned in the scenarios, or a Europe that in its zeal overlaps with NATO's important activities. Realism is needed. European defence cooperation is not an end in itself. It's too important to be. I request the approval of Motive reservation No 1 by KD, M, C and L.
i-7902612779595edc-643	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal. This means that the discussion paper we have received from the European Commission is added to the documents. This discussion paper does not contain any concrete proposals, nor does it contain opinions in the committee's opinion. It can be said that the most important thing about this document and with the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is what we have right now, namely this debate in this House. Hopefully it also creates debate and discussion in Swedish society and perhaps even around Europe. How do we want to organise security and defence in the future in our Member States, and what cooperation do we want to see between the Member States? This is what the discussion is about. The discussion paper put together by the European Commission points, as we have heard here several times, to three different scenarios. I do not think that in the future one will be able to check that one of them has become a reality, possibly parts of something or a couple of them. The most important thing is the discussion and the debate right now. There are many ideas and views, both in the discussion paper and in the ensuing debate. There are those who dream of an EU defence and an EU army, but I am convinced that they will continue to dream. None of the eight parties in the Swedish Parliament are in favour of a common EU defence. It's not going to happen. It would require agreement between all the Member States of the European Union for that to be the case, and that is not the case. Nor do I see how that condition could exist in the future – especially as the unity is stunningly complete here in the Swedish Parliament that we do not want an EU defence. But we can benefit from cooperation in various areas. It is therefore important to continue to participate in the process and to participate in the discussion. It will definitely continue. It's taking new steps right now and the next few weeks. There have been some criticisms in the debate that the Swedish Government has been slow and not so concrete. But it is difficult to be at the forefront of this discussion because it is precisely a discussion and a formation that is taking place now. Calling for everything to go faster and be clearer is not entirely realistic at this stage. The Swedish approach to a common defence is well known in Europe and the EU. The debate has called for us to be even clearer. I don't know how we could be. It is very well known in the EU Member States and in other European countries what Sweden's attitude is. Those who dream of a common EU defence rightly see Sweden as one of their biggest enemies in the discussion. There is one thing that is important in the further process. Sweden is not and should not be a member of NATO, but at the same time it is of interest to Sweden that the EU does not do things that duplicate capabilities and more that NATO has. There is no reason, even for Sweden that is not a member of NATO, that you do things twice. It is poorly used resources and poorly spent time. I believe that Sweden, regardless of government and parties, will be an important watchdog in EU cooperation in order to avoid duplication of capacities and work. Madam President, I would like I call for the committee's proposal to be approved again.
i-7902612779595edc-654	Madam President, I would like I couldn't stay on the bench. The most important thing is the discussions and the debate right now and our participation in the discussions," said Kenneth G. Forslund in his speech. That sounds good. But you can participate in different ways. You can sit side by side and listen to what the others say and wait to take a stand until it is absolutely necessary and you are faced with a completed fact. What worries me is that Sweden has just been passive. I think that the government has been dragging its feet, perhaps because it does not agree internally between different areas of affairs or between different parties, what do I know? It's taken a long time. It was a long period of labor before there was finally a joint article by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence, where all of this cooperation was suddenly received with open arms. I welcome it, but I still have to ask Kenneth G. Forslund: Why has it taken so long?
i-7902612779595edc-658	Madam President, I would like I thank Karin Enström for the question. It is in the viewer's eye what is long and short in these contexts. It's an ongoing process. It is in some parts, perhaps even in many pieces, unclear. It's searching. How, then, should you walk forward in it? I can understand Karin Enström's concern. Is Sweden in the gallery and a passive spectator? Or are we an active player in the discussion? We will of course be an active player in the discussion. But I understand if you're worried about where in the arena we are. It is an ongoing and searching discussion. I think that we all benefit from discussing the right things in it and that we are not, as some people want to do, spreading scares about what this could be, as it will never be. Let's discuss the real things. That is also what we will have the opportunity to do in the coming weeks and months when, among other things, there is a proposal on permanent cooperation. I think this is a good thing, and I think it will bring the process as a whole and also the Swedish position forward.
i-7902612779595edc-663	Madam President, I would like This is what's a little tricky. On the one hand, as Kenneth G. Forslund says, it is a process. On the other hand, some things go quickly, and then it is important to be prepared to keep up with the turns and not sit and wait for concrete proposals that are probably already pre-cooked elsewhere. What I am calling for is that the government is more active and is in place where it is pre-cooked to discover things that are heading in the wrong direction and be able to influence and push on those with which we are normally like-minded so that it can go in the right direction. We share the view that this is a good thing. There are certainly some pitfalls, and there are issues where we have a particular interest precisely because we are a defence industry. We are a small country, and we risk being in the shadow of the big countries. I call for greater clarity and for the government to take on more responsibility. It will rush and move quickly once you put your foot down, and then we will have done everything we can to ensure that it goes in the direction we want. Madam President, I would like I sincerely hope that we do not have enemies among the Member States of the European Union. We may think differently, but no matter what question we are dealing with, we are certainly not enemies.
i-7902612779595edc-668	Madam President, I would like No, we should not be enemies of anyone in Europe, but of course we have opponents on a number of issues. This is one of those, where there are clear page divisions. I am absolutely convinced that the government does not do everything so in any case very much of what Karin Enström wants. Then, surely, every government can become even more telling about what it really does. The bill we now have before us is part of it. At the same time, we should remember that it is a twitchy process in which it is sometimes slow and sometimes fast, and also in different areas. It's not easy for anyone to see. We'll all have to help each other. Nevertheless, we have common basic ideas about what should be Sweden's role and how it should work in the EU. I think when we do it, it'll be fine in the end. I never mind telling you more and explaining more about the policy of the Social Democratic-led government.
i-7902612779595edc-672	Madam President, I would like Since the end of the Second World War, Europe has experienced an unprecedented period of increased prosperity and lasting peace. The horrors that for a long time ravaged the continent, not least the two bloody world wars, have more or less come to appear as a thing of the past. As the countries of Europe made stronger political ties among themselves and deepened economic and cultural exchanges, common interests and values became increasingly clear and more important. The contradictions decreased. However, we have also recently seen an increase in nationalism in countries such as the United Kingdom, which has chosen to break out of EU cooperation. This is of course, I would say, a very worrying development, because it is through cooperation that we maintain and achieve peace. That is exactly how the EU was created at one time, to be a peace project. With the one you work with, you don't fight. So the question is not so much whether to work together, but how much to work together, how deep to go and what to work together. It is quite alarming to hear the federalists say that they want a defence union. We do not want an EU army. It is so far from the green and environmentalist idea that one could ever come, and it is gratifying that we agree on this between all the parties here in the Swedish Parliament. However, the Green Party has always pushed for us to have civilian preparedness and cooperation, to look at the broad concept of security when we talk about security. There the government is anything but passive. Rather, the government has been very proactive and worked for Sweden to be a driving force when it comes to peace-building efforts via the EU. It is about working to build up governance and security reforms within the EU and beyond. We have also been very active in ensuring that women have more space in security work. We have been active in working with the climate threat, which is also an extremely important security work. Madam President, I would like For me, two issues are central when we discuss the future of Europe's defence policy: what are the biggest security challenges we face, and do we have the tools and the capacity to face them? With regard to the threats and challenges we face today, there is broad consensus in this House. We have a deteriorating security situation with regard to the EU's eastern and southern borders. We see a Russia that has illegally annexed Crimea and is carrying out ongoing attacks on eastern Ukraine and was close to succeeding in a coup d'état in Montenegro. It conducts influence operations and cyber attacks against Sweden, against other EU Member States and, not least, against the USA in connection with the elections. We have the terrorist threat, increased migratory flows and a global refugee situation that has not been so serious since the Second World War. In addition, as I have said many times before, there is climate change, the consequences of which we are already beginning to witness. They can lead to high tensions and increased security risks. We must act even more forcefully. Madam President, I would like Does the EU have the right tools and capacity to meet these challenges? We have a good and growing knowledge of the threat picture, and we are in the Swedish parliament quite united about what that threat picture looks like, and that is good. However, in a number of areas the capacity still needs to be strengthened. We need to develop security policy cooperation in order to guarantee the security of all members, and I am thinking primarily of civil matters. In this work, it is really important that we have a broad approach to the complex threat we face. At the same time, we must be clear that security policy is ultimately the competence of the Member States – preferably more of cooperation between the Member States, but we should certainly not build a super army! When many of the major security threats have no military basis, it goes without saying that it is not possible to rely solely on traditional resources associated with military strategies. What we need instead is to strengthen our focus on crisis preparedness, conflict prevention mediation and peace efforts. Here the Swedish government has taken great and important steps. The Green Party wants Sweden to develop this approach, which has been a developing force in EU crisis management and capacity building for stabilisation, democratisation and the promotion of human rights in the Union's neighbourhood. In the civil field, Sweden is one of the Member States that provides the greatest human resources, and we shall continue to do so. We know that the work on stabilisation and democratisation in our surrounding regions contributes positively to the internal security of both Sweden and the European Union. The Treaty of Lisbon states that the EU will develop as a strong peace-promoting actor. The Green Party has long advocated the creation of a peace corps as an opportunity to strengthen the EU's common foreign and security policy. It is a practical instrument that can be put into conflict to prevent violence that is escalating and instead contribute to a peaceful solution before conflict occurs. We must continue to push for this idea. In addition, I would like to highlight the need for a strong cyber defence for the future of Europe. It is not only important in the traditional sense of security policy, but also crucial for the future of democracy. Madam President, I would like Neither the security of Sweden nor the European Union can be regarded as an island in itself. In a intertwined world, the connection between external and internal security is increasingly strong. It is therefore necessary to continue efforts on humanitarian aid, long-term development cooperation and conflict resolution and security promotion. It is through preventive action, such as poverty reduction, social inclusion and climate change, that we can seriously counter social instability, refugee crises and violent extremism. It is also extremely important here that we, between the Member States, can agree to bring additional refugees into our countries and that there should be a way of punishing those countries that do not do so by means of economic sanctions in some way. The Green Party is a party with its roots in the peace movement and its eyes are pragmatically directed towards the real security threat we face today. Realism must be paired with a clear focus on peace-building and crisis management in the broad sense. Only with such an attack can we develop Europe as the peace project that it basically is and safeguard our common security seriously. With these words, I call for the committee's proposal, which is a contribution to a debate. This is an extremely important debate, which we need to continue in Sweden and in the Swedish Parliament.
i-7902612779595edc-691	Madam President, I would like The security situation in Europe has changed and deteriorated. We see growing contradictions, military armaments and increased confrontation on our continent and in our neighbourhood. Russia's destabilisation policy, the war in Syria and Turkish human rights violations create a political uncertainty, while terrorist acts and strong racist and fascist currents increase insecurity in Europe. Climate change, cyber attacks, pandemics and natural disasters must also be included in the security policy perspective. Many of these major challenges are not solved by military means, but other measures based on cooperation and dialogue are needed here rather than confrontation. It is therefore important to have a broad perspective on security issues and not just focus on military solutions. Sweden, for example, could be developed in cooperation with the countries around the Baltic Sea. The Baltic Sea is an important common concern in terms of both the environment and climate, as well as industrial policy and security policy. Aid, cultural and exchange of experience and research are other areas that could strengthen cooperation and reduce tension in our neighbourhood. We see how respect for international law is undermined in Europe by Russia's actions. Russia's annexation of Crimea and actions in eastern Ukraine are clearly contrary to international law. For this there are no excuses or extenuating circumstances. While strongly condemning the Russian annexation of Crimea, we must also note that Russia's imperialist policy is primarily a threat to its own population and to the population of neighbouring countries such as Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova and not primarily to Sweden. The serious defence experts agree on that. We must also see that NATO has increasingly contributed to the increased tension in Europe through its military armaments in Europe and eastward enlargement. Europe has fallen into a dangerous rearmament spiral. In this sensitive situation, Sweden should do its utmost to reduce the tension in our neighbourhood by strengthening our independence and freedom of alliance and in this way contribute to reducing the risk of conflict and military escalation. A Swedish NATO membership would be a major security policy mistake. For the Left Party, the military freedom of alliance is central. It is through an independent foreign policy and an international credibility that we have the opportunity to build security together with others. Swedish alliance freedom has served us well and meant that generation after generation has been able to grow up without having to experience the horrors of war. Sweden has previously taken a critical approach to the militarisation of the EU. The Left Party is therefore concerned about how the government seems to change its position on this issue. Sweden has slowly but surely moved away from a traditional and successful security policy based on military alliance freedom, disarmament, peaceful solutions to conflicts, support to the UN and solidarity with poor people in poor countries. Since our accession to the European Union, Swedish military alliance freedom has been increasingly eroded. Today, we are contributing to the militarisation of the EU, and our cooperation with NATO is strengthened, among other things, by the host country agreement. We are concerned about these developments. We are seeing today how strong forces within the EU are working to militarise the Union. They are mainly the federalists of the Union who want to build a militarised United States of Europe. Another crucial force behind the militarisation of the EU is the military industrial complex and the major European companies that produce all types of weapons and military equipment. The Left Party is very critical of a development which involves increased militarisation of the EU and rapprochement with NATO. Such a development would be unfortunate, not least from a security policy perspective. Instead, the EU should give priority to a role as a trustmaker and peace builder in Europe. The debate on security policy should also be considerably broadened, with significantly greater scope for human rights, cyber attacks and climate threats. The Left Party believes that an independent and military non-aligned foreign policy is crucial for Sweden's freedom of action in the future. We want Sweden to focus its international security policy on peaceful solutions and on preventing crises rather than advocating military solutions. We want to see a broad commitment to democracy, to human rights, to international law, to women's liberation, to global social justice and disarmament, and to a ban on weapons of mass destruction. A credible Swedish military alliance freedom also means a need for a Swedish defence with strong popular support that has the capacity to maintain control of Swedish territory as well as to meet the various security threats we face and be able to contribute in international efforts to safeguard peace and security.
i-7902612779595edc-704	Madam President, I would like It was a bit exciting to follow on the journey that Lotta Johnsson Fornarve made. She was both alone in her world and wanted to cooperate with other countries around the Baltic Sea. But she did not want to cooperate in the EU to build security, and she absolutely did not want anything to do with NATO. Then Sweden alone could be able to resist Russia. I suppose it is there that one sees the threat, because I also heard that Lotta Johnsson Fornarve spoke against the Russian aggression. It is an exciting attitude that should awaken one or another who may be asleep and believe that we have the ability to resist an unaligned Russian attack, for example, with nuclear weapons from Kaliningrad. It is, Madam President, an uncertain future that Lotta Johnsson Fornarve and the Left Party are trying to offer through their actions. It is not a question of cooperation and security together with others, and it is not a question of being able to face Russian attacks other than possibly then with demonstration plaques as long as it is permitted. Well, that's the way the peaceful path would be. Madam President, I would like With Left's argumentation, we do not get together a security policy that would be able to face the threats that we in Sweden, our Baltic neighbours or EU neighbours are at risk of facing. I fear for a left-wing party with government power and security policy influence.
i-7902612779595edc-707	Madam President, I would like I thank Kerstin Lundgren for the question. If you had listened to my speech, Kerstin Lundgren, you would have heard that we are defending cooperation in a variety of areas and that it is important to broaden this security thinking to include not only military solutions but also cooperation on a variety of other important challenges that we face, such as the climate threat, human rights and other important issues that we have in common. What we are opposed to is the increase in military development. We do not believe that peace and security are being built primarily by military means. Now that we are seeing an armament spiral in Europe, both from the Russian side and from NATO, by expanding and increasing its military capabilities in Europe, we do not believe that the best way to meet it is through more weapons and more military efforts, but by Sweden continuing to be independent and fighting for its freedom of alliance and thus helping to reduce tensions in our neighbourhood. If Sweden were to join NATO, we would instead add to the polarisation that we see.
i-7902612779595edc-709	Madam President, I would like Of course, we have threats other than military to face, jointly in the EU and jointly globally. Nevertheless, we have experienced military aggression and military abuse by our great neighbour, Russia, on our continent. They entered Ukraine and are now in Ukraine and Georgia. It is a real threat that people are experiencing. These are countries that might have hoped for help from others. Like Lotta Johnsson Fornarve, they may have hoped that they had the military ability to resist Russia when they entered. But it turned out it wasn't possible. It would be exciting to hear how great the Swedish military armament would have to be according to the Left Party in order for us to be able to face and resist an attack from Russia. Madam President, I would like With regard to the debate on NATO's enlargement, I have understood that it was the Baltic colleagues who called and asked others to come and support when the fear that the Russian tanks would once again be on their streets became clear. It is the Russian threat that triggers others to seek refuge. And there is a joint search for protection in NATO. Countries are asking for membership. It is not someone else who goes in and takes over or expands. Eastern countries are threatened by Russia, and Russia's threats lead to more people seeking membership of NATO. Sweden should do the same.
i-7902612779595edc-713	Madam President, I would like It is important to have a correct picture of the security situation in Europe and not to exaggerate the Russian threat. We take the Russian threat seriously. We see the aggression in Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea as serious violations of international law. We see how Russia acts in the countries nearby. However, the Russian threat is above all a threat to the indigenous population and to the countries nearby – Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine, as we have mentioned before. The Russian threat is not directed at Sweden in particular. That's the defense experts pretty much in agreement. The investigation that came in 2016 clearly states that it is considered that an isolated Russian attack on Sweden is completely out of the question. It is important to have a slightly balanced view of the security situation. And surely NATO's rearmament in Europe must be seen as a contribution to the increase in rehabilitation. Different experts admit that. For example, Hans Blix, former Minister for Foreign Affairs of a bourgeois government, says that he does not want to see Swedish membership of NATO because it would help to increase polarisation. So there are voices even on the edge that sees that threat. We still believe that the best thing Sweden can do is to defend Swedish alliance freedom, be a voice for peace and disarmament and not help to increase polarisation in Europe.
i-7902612779595edc-716	Madam President, I would like I would like to endorse our reservation. There is very good in selected parts of the committee's position. But here, too, we think there is concern about where this is going. That is what I will shed some light on. In its Start-up Opinion for the European Defence Fund, the committee states that a Member State's competence in this area should be further protected, Madam President, and that there should be freedom of action. But there are no head requirements. It is precisely the soft part of the opinion of the Committee on Defence that is too weak. The Commission, which is not elected by the people, has laid the foundations for a stronger European defence policy, as we have just talked about. However, as part of the overall defence package, the EU's global strategy in the area of security and defence follows. This was mentioned by the Commission in the European Defence Action Plan. It contains measures to achieve more European defence cooperation. A proposal is being put forward, as it is termed, to form the basis of a European Defence Fund. It is intended to help Member States make cooperation a rule. It is thought that there is a lack of cooperation. The committee notes that the Commission states that the European Defence Fund must become a key driver for the future European defence. These are the writings that we do not think are good. This should be changed, put your foot down and say no to this. The report also states that the Commission believes that in over 80% of defence procurement and in excess of 90% of research and technology is managed at national level, which means that Member States do not cooperate sufficiently. It therefore interferes in the way in which the Member States carry out their research and military development and puts them on their noses by saying that it shows that they are not working together enough. We think those writings are wrong. We have a justification in our reservation: a financial and functional investment in existing structures is better than investing in two parallel collaborations. But there are, of course, many areas where we think it is good to cooperate. Madam President, I would like The EU option is partly highlighted as intergovernmental. It's almost an illusion. You constantly move closer to a supranationality. We don't like that. But we like cooperation in many areas. And the government is right to invest a lot in bilateral cooperation agreements, in defence and other areas. That's good. Research is an area where it is very good to cooperate. If we look at the Swedish defence industry, we can see that the EU wants countries to join forces to promote a common defence industry in the long term. Why? The best thing is that each country itself develops. We have a fantastic defence industry in Sweden. We have excellence in the world. We have radar systems and other systems. And we have Gripen planes, as we have done ourselves. A number of years ago, the EU said that Sweden is too small to develop its own fighter aircraft. Such statements are quite good to read now. Is that what you write today? No, you don't. Sweden has one of the world's best fighter planes with the hunting robot Meteor, which is developed in Sweden for Gripen. It has not cost taxpayers a Swedish krona, if we look at all the functions and industries that have grown up around this technology development. What if the EU were to be a seller in the Gripen affair with India, for example; would they be some kind of group leader for the Swedish defence industry and others? What major orders do we think the major players in Europe would take home? As far as Sweden's competitiveness is concerned, we believe that there is a great danger in moving in that direction. If the Swedish defence industry does not make it, then it will go bankrupt. You're supposed to compete. It is excellent to compete in the way we have and will do. The successful industry should be supported, it should not be led. For example, the Gripen cost only 7 1⁄2 percent to develop compared to the Eurofighter and the Joint Strike Fighter respectively, the F-35. Yet the Eurofighter in the EU context is described as a success. The United States has a tank model. Europe has 17 different tank models, but they are not more expensive. The European Defence Fund has a level of ambition and several industrial consortia are to be formed around projects such as combat aircraft or tanks. Each project must have a leading nation. What does that mean for those who are not a leading nation? It's unclear. Therefore, we feel that our motivational reservation is setting its foot more clearly. But it should not be understood that we are against all cooperation in various areas such as research and other things. We are in favour of this cooperation at an intergovernmental level.
i-7902612779595edc-731	Madam President, I would like The Left Party is opposed to the militarisation that is currently taking place in the EU. It is driven by federalists and the arms industry who want to see a United States of Europe. The Left Party warned against this development already during the referendum on EU membership in 1994. It was something that the Swedish people were never allowed to take a position on, if they wanted to be involved in an increased militarisation of the EU or not. Because Sweden, unlike Denmark, has absolutely no exceptions, we are forced into an EU road that we do not want to go. With the EU's common defence and security policy, we are forced to join. Instead of constantly contributing to increased tension, Europe and the EU could play an important role and role in de-stressing. We could work towards nuclear disarmament, sign the UN Nuclear Weapons Agreement and declare the Nordic countries, Europe and the Arctic nuclear-free zones. We could be a calming bridge between the two power-crazed presidents Trump and Putin. At the Nordic Council session last week, a recommendation was adopted to develop work with the Nordic region as a peace broker in the world. It's basically a good idea. But if, at the same time, we undermine the freedom of alliance, which in practice has already ceased, and have large arms exports, then that objective will be difficult to achieve. The Left Party opposes the constant initiatives to militarise EU cooperation. Sweden's safety does not benefit from additional contributions to increase the level of armor, exercise and tension. The Left Party is therefore opposed to the EU's common security and defence policy, including increased cooperation in the field of defence equipment. Instead, Europe's security policy challenges should be met by a policy to reduce the level of tension through negotiation and diplomacy. Madam President, I would like I'll disappoint Hans Wallmark. I'm not the Left Party's new defence political spokesperson, Hans. I'm just replacements getting in today. Instead, Lotta Johnsson Fornarve will take these debates in the future. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-7902612779595edc-737	Madam President, I would like The committee has examined the Commission's communication on the launch of the European Defence Fund. This issue was also addressed in the previous debate on Europe's future defence policy. Let me begin by saying that the communication and the European Defence Fund itself, for Swedish purposes, are likely to bring quite large, given benefits and opportunities. The Swedish Defence Fund is divided into two different parts. One is about supporting research in the field of defence and security, and the other is about improving capacity. It is not small money that is involved in this. As far as research is concerned, the EU announces an allocation of approximately EUR 5 billion each year. In terms of the capacity component, it is about 50 billion a year that can benefit different applicants. Madam President, I would like Looking at defence equipment production capacity in Europe, Sweden is a country characterised by a very high production rate in relation to our size. Thus, there are well all the conditions for Swedish companies and Swedish industry to be able to achieve success in the different parts. Now the Swedish Democrats and Roger Richtoff put forward a number of arguments that we should say no to these opportunities and stand aside. He mentioned, among other things, the new radar-hunting robot Beyond Visual Range Meteor. Then it may be good to know that Meteor is a product of a European defence cooperation in which five nations together developed this weapon that is currently on the Swedish Gripen fleet. The Swedish Democrats also mention the fact that Germany produces cheaper and perhaps better tanks than the Americans do – this despite the fact that there are 17 different heavy tanks that are developed and produced in Europe. What today characterises the acquisition of new developed defence equipment is that the series are very short. But the advanced technology makes development costs very high. It is obvious to anyone that if we are able to reduce development costs and extend the series, this will mean that, for less money, we can acquire more defence capabilities than we are able to do today when everyone is working on their own. It is the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats who unite in their opposition to the European Defence Fund. It confirms an old French political truth: Les extr ê mes se touchent, i.e. that the political extremes touch one another. Madam President, I would like In doing so, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved in its opinion.
i-7902612779595edc-746	Madam President, I would like In recent years we have had to get used to a more troubled situation both in the world as a whole and in our immediate environment. It is also a new and very complex security situation where impact operations, cyber attacks and climate challenges are some of the newer, more complex challenges we face. We in Sweden have therefore made great efforts in recent years to renovate the national defence. At the same time, we see that security issues are increasingly being discussed across Europe. Cooperation is one of the most important ingredients when it comes to creating security. It is also the idea itself that is the basis on which the European Union is founded, through interdependence and solidarity between the Member States, to create security in Europe. We must constantly protect and develop this. From the Swedish side, we know that cooperation is an important key to creating security. Cooperation and finding common solutions are important both in foreign policy and in defence policy. In recent years, Sweden has strengthened its cooperation with virtually all neighbouring countries through various forms of cooperation agreements. Only the other week was the Swedish Defence Committee in Helsinki for the annual meeting of the Finnish Defence Committee. We are now clear that we are cooperating with Finland, even beyond peace-time conditions. We cooperate because it benefits both parties, individually and jointly. By sharing knowledge, experiences and abilities, we become stronger together, because it is difficult to be the best at everything alone. The EU's global strategy is based precisely on the understanding that none of the European countries today alone can cope with and prevent or respond to the threats to our common security, such as the threat of terrorism. Member States must cooperate with each other. Madam President, I would like In addition, with today's technological development, it is particularly difficult and costly to be at the forefront of our own efforts. We have a lot to gain from cooperating with each other. The European Defence Fund is intended to promote cooperation and to provide incentives for EU Member States to cooperate on research and the development of new equipment projects. The benefits of cooperating on armaments projects are several. Lower costs, the avoidance of unnecessary overlap and better intervention skills are some. The Swedish Defence Fund is divided into two parts: one research part and one capacity part. The research component aims to increase cooperation in the field of defence research through financial contributions. The capacity component will support joint development and joint acquisition of key defence capabilities. It shall be consistent with the priorities agreed by the EU Member States. Only cooperation projects can be supported. Madam President, I would like The fact that the countries of the European Union are cooperating on defence and security issues is, in our view, very positive. Europe is one of our most important security platforms. Then it is important that it benefits all countries and that it is done at an intergovernmental level. As the EU now deploys resources to promote cooperation on defence equipment, it must benefit all states and industries, regardless of their size. For us Social Democrats, it is also important that such cooperation does not discourage cooperation with countries outside the EU. Sweden's closest neighbour Norway is an example of a country outside the EU that is an important partner for security in both Sweden and the EU. Having said that, we welcome the increased debate on defence and security policy in the EU. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-7902612779595edc-757	Madam President, I would like 11/11: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: For this reason, in the British-speaking world these days Remembrance Day is celebrated in memory of all who have sacrificed their lives in war for peace. This applies not only in the first but also in the second world war and also in the second war. With the help of poppy – the symbol of the shed blood in Flanders – was remembered and shown respect. We should all remember how our continent, our Europe, has been torn apart for centuries by wars and conflicts and how the earth has been colored red. That is precisely why we should also remind ourselves of what a genuine peace project European cooperation is. Madam President, I would like In the uncertain and unpredictable world we live in, Sweden and the EU must take the necessary measures to best strengthen security at large. This means, among other things, enhanced defence cooperation. We Moderates therefore take a very positive view of the fact that the committee has taken the Alliance's line on the attitude towards the development of the EU in the field of defence and security in accordance with the opinion on the European Defence Fund. There are good arguments for pushing for cooperation, where the most important thing is to continue to secure peace. This applies, for example, to the possibilities of jointly developing better abilities at a cheaper cost. The fact that the EU's overall defence budget is many times greater than that of Russia is not reflected in the real capacity. For us Moderates, it is important to be clear what we think enhanced European defence cooperation means. There's a lot of things we can think of to see in place. However, we do not want to see a common European army, and we do not want the right of decision over our national defence to be moved. Instead, we want cooperation to be deepened in areas such as cyber, intelligence and enhanced response capabilities. These are areas where enhanced cooperation would be of real benefit. Madam President, I would like Sweden can and should be the driving force in developing cooperation in those areas where there are obvious cooperation and efficiency gains, and where through cooperation we can increase our individual abilities as well as the EU-wide capability. With regard to the European Defence Fund, it is positive that there is now a proposal to develop cooperation on defence research and capabilities development. More resources are needed for research and there is potential and efficiency gains in greater coordination of capabilities development. Part of the work should be to ensure diversity so that small and medium-sized countries, such as Sweden, and companies, can also have the opportunity to participate in different projects under the same conditions as larger countries and larger companies. Sweden, which has a high-tech defence industry at the forefront, should be an appreciated participant in the innovation programmes. It is also important to look at companies in the Member States as such and not where possible owners are. Without the national identity of companies, Bofors in Karlskoga and Hägglunds in Örnsköldsvik, for example, would not be considered because of BAE's ownership. We can't have that. It is important to ensure that this does not become covert, decomposed industrial policy. Instead, let us develop our abilities and products where there is real interest and genuine will. As far as funding is concerned, the Moderates do not want the long-term budget to be increased to ensure sufficient resources in EU defence cooperation. Instead, funds should be redistributed wisely. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to stress that in future the government should be more proactive in its work on European defence than has been the case so far. The Swedish government has been late in the process at a time when work on European defence has taken off seriously. This applies both to cooperation within permanent structured cooperation, Pesco, and to cooperation on research and capabilities. It is not enough, in fact, to provide the Committee on Defence with facts and, therefore, with unclear positions. This government, like all other governments, is set to rule and lead – do it then! We in the Alliance want to see the opportunities and define how Sweden can contribute to a better European defence cooperation. It is about how Sweden's interests can be defended in closer cooperation. Today, there is a will among most countries to deepen and strengthen cooperation, and many of the structures are now in place. It is now up to the individual Member States to make use of this opportunity. Then Sweden, and ultimately the Swedish Government, must be able to identify relevant priorities in order to be able to participate and influence. It is important that cooperation is not designed to disadvantage the Union's small and medium-sized countries or to put the Swedish defence industry at a disadvantage. Sweden must therefore be active at an early stage and be able to contribute real added value in order to influence development in a desirable direction. Madam President, I would like Behind all the technicalities and fund structures, however, it is important to see the key. With European cooperation in all areas, we are working together within the EU to secure peace and thus ensure that Flanders's fields are not reddened again.
i-7902612779595edc-770	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking Hans Wallmark for his little history lesson. I agree with Alexandra Völker's speech, and I would like to refer to what Allan Widman said about small series and the impact it has on the cost of material production. It is difficult to deny that Europe today has overproduction of weapons systems. This is linked to the fact that there are so many different countries that want to develop their own materials instead of cooperating. The effect of this is not only that it is expensive for different states and their defence forces. We also see this in Sweden. We know that Sweden has been one of the countries in Europe that has spent the largest share of GDP on equipment. It also leads to a security policy problem. If you overproduce, of course you have to export. It creates a military industrial complex that risks fattening uncertainty rather than building security. European cooperation on the material side can therefore be positive and something that we agree with from a green point of view. Then it has to be done properly, and it is very important that the government has indicated that this is obviously on an intergovernmental basis. We should also be restrictive about the budgetary resources that are being set up, and we would have liked it to have been even tighter there. This should not be an excuse to expand any material budgets. However, we agree that the very focus of cooperation is to make it possible to reduce the total spending on materials in Europe while at the same time gaining more quality and better defence forces. We look forward to the defence fund hopefully contributing to this.
i-7902612779595edc-774	Madam President, I would like When it comes to this important, major question of the future, it is important that Sweden is active in influencing the content and the choices of the road and actively participates in influencing the negotiations that are taking place between the EU countries and the various bodies that are preparing the next steps that will be taken – and need to be taken. These are central issues for our common capabilities and for the security of our area. For the Swedish part, the most important and closest defence and security cooperation are those within the Nordic region, within the EU and with NATO. However, the deteriorating security situation means that more needs to be done to develop and deepen defence and security cooperation. The Center Party believes that the EU should address the major cross-border challenges, given that Europe's immediate neighbourhood is becoming increasingly uncertain. The borders between peace and war are blurred, and technical systems are interconnected between many countries. The question of how the EU and its Member States should deal with their defence and security policy is more topical than ever. Most of the countries are struggling with lack of access to defence capabilities after many years of not only savings but also forgone investments, not least in equipment projects. It is therefore time to show forward-looking and leadership on these issues, but also to build cooperation, coordinate and collaborate – both to use the money as efficiently as possible, so that we get as much defence capabilities and benefits as possible, and to clarify our position in our part of the world, contribute to peace and stability and increase our military capabilities. The Center Party welcomes the development of defence within the EU, and we believe that Europe's countries need to take on a significant responsibility – and a greater responsibility – for their security. The intergovernmental nature of European defence cooperation remains important for the Center Party. We do not want to give up our national decision-making power here. We also see that the EU and NATO can complement each other. These are issues that have been raised by various party representatives on this subject. NATO is responsible for the military defence of the European continent, while the EU can contribute to the development of the national defence forces, not least through research and support in the development of military capabilities. Common purchases of large-scale defence equipment can put costs under pressure, thus increasing the potential of our national defence forces. We are also increasing NATO's overall defence capacity and to carry out operations via the Union. This is particularly important in our absolute neighbourhood. There is a lot to suggest that we develop this and that we can work with strategic defence capabilities. We have been dealing with efficiency and synergies, as well as strengthening our independence and freedom of action over time. We need to work together at all levels in order to have openness to the citizens of the European Union in our different countries. This is part of finding new and more projects, and not necessarily involving all but more countries in the same project. There are also criteria for this, which are mentioned in EU data. Not going into this will only mean that we have to solve even more ourselves. Given the challenge we are already facing with increasing defence price indices and limited resources, the question is very clear: Would we be able to strengthen our capabilities based on our own strength? This will benefit both long-term capacity development and strengthen business development in our areas. As has already been mentioned, key issues are aviation systems, satellite communications and cyber defence. Surveillance, intelligence and reconnaissance are also relevant. Madam President, I would like When you listen to the debates on this subject, you can draw conclusions. On behalf of the Swedish Democrats today, I have taken note of a rather clear recognition of what NATO's role in our neighbourhood actually looks like. The Swedish Democrats highlight the various security policy options and describe how both the US and NATO balance the major powers China and Russia. It is for me a clear position on the role of NATO in Swedish security. The fact that existing structures would be better than investing in two different parallel collaborations deserves further analysis. It also deserves an explanation of the structures referred to by the Swedish Democrats. This is a step in the right direction when it comes to recognising both NATO's capabilities and NATO-EU cooperation. It is also a step in the right direction when it comes to laying the foundations for the European Defence Fund to be able to implement good projects that are based in the Member States and support for the important steps that need to be taken to contribute to stability and security. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
i-7902612779595edc-786	Madam President, I would like There is much in this that I have said before is good, Daniel Bäckström. This applies, for example, to research, and you have listed a lot. We have absolutely no problem cooperating in these areas. But the Swedish defence industry is very strong – we have leading developments in some areas – and we believe that the defence industry will be competed if you enter into a collaboration with the EU that the EU will run. What skills do you have there to run it? They're not business leaders. As far as NATO's capabilities are concerned, it is a great deal. After they had a new President, the European NATO countries began to rearrange a great deal. We also want to rearrange a lot – yes, not all parties, but the Swedish Democrats and Liberals want to rearrange a lot. I believe that even the Moderates are at 9 billion, i.e. a substantial rearmament in relation to the government. Our role, however, is to be militaryly non-aligned, preferably in association with Finland. This is being worked out, and we think that the government and the Minister for Defence are doing well. We believe in military alliance freedom. We believe that it strengthens and contributes to the security of the Baltic Sea region. Would it increase or reduce safety in our part of Europe if the Baltic Sea were surrounded by NATO countries – if the Baltic Sea was turned into a NATO sea? There are differences of opinion.
i-7902612779595edc-789	Madam President, I would like I do not share Roger Richtoff's description of the EU countries having started to rearrange since NATO had a new President. We have to go even further back in time than when the United States got a new president, if that is what was meant. The security policy situation has gradually deteriorated but has also deteriorated dramatically following several recent events and also ongoing events in our neighbourhood. We have Ukraine, Georgia, the annexation of Crimea, intelligence activities and hybrid threats to our territory and country, but also to the EU and EU countries. The deteriorating security picture is not about NATO's actions but about the actions of other countries, which I assume Roger Richtoff is very well aware of. We have everything to gain from developing European cooperation and continuing to build a workable collaboration in those areas to develop entrepreneurship both in Sweden and in other countries. It provides opportunities for more projects and development projects for the future. That is fundamental, and we need it. Some of the criteria are for at least three companies in at least two countries to participate in projects in this direction. I see an opportunity for Swedish companies to be able to participate in development projects and also be able to participate in financing jointly within the European Union. We must, of course, be vigilant and ensure that this goes in the direction that Sweden wants. We need to have a common picture of what our defence capabilities require in the long term and also in relation to what other countries have ambitions.
i-7902612779595edc-793	Madam President, I would like We have expressed concern about the wording that exists. I've explained that to you before. That concern remains. But I would like to emphasise that there are areas of cooperation that we think are really good. I have a question. The Alliance and all parties, including the Center Party, say here: We should not enter into a common defence structure, a defence force in the EU. Then my question is: is it true, or is it not true, that you in the European Parliament have voted in favour of a common European defence with the figures 369 for and 255 against? The members of the Swedish alliance parties voted in that vote for a common EU defence including a military EU headquarters and fixed EU military structures. Is that true, or isn't it true? That is one question. The second point I would like to highlight is that you are talking about Europe being able to make a contribution. Is that a military operation? How will it be built? How will it be trained? How much is that cost? Is it an effort in the form of a standing brigade, or what does center partyist Daniel Bäckström mean by that? What's the stake? At the same time, I would like an answer to the question: is it true that you have voted in a way in Europe and are standing here in this House saying that you should not have a common defence?
i-7902612779595edc-796	Madam President, I would like On behalf of the Center Party, we welcome developments in the field of defence in the EU. We see that the countries of Europe need to take greater joint responsibility. We are working in this direction both in Sweden and in the area of work that the EU has. We see that it is also important to strengthen our national capacity development. It should be based on intergovernmentalism, and it should remain important not to give up national decision-making rights. That's our position. That is also the starting point when we vote in the European Union. Roger Richtoff has several parts of the Swedish Democrats' dissenting opinion based on the committee's treatment. Referring to existing structures as an alternative to enhanced EU cooperation raises the question: who are they talking about? What structures are referred to in order to be in a stable and good position in the Baltic Sea region? I see that it is either NATO, the Nordic countries or Finland, as Roger Richtoff mentions. If it is insufficient or sufficient, the future will tell. Or is it other structures to the east that Roger Richtoff thinks is the alternative to moving forward within the EU? I have also heard that Sweden, as Roger Richtoff mentions, has much to gain within the framework of EU cooperation. Let's hope it leads right. As far as the Center Party is concerned, we are behind it. We will also follow developments. We also see that it is possible to combine developed defence research and cooperation within the framework of the EU, plus that Sweden joins and becomes a full member of NATO. We believe that this is necessary to secure our neighbourhood but also to build peace and security in Europe.
i-7902612779595edc-801	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for the defence committee's proposal to be approved in its entirety. We are in an increasingly tough security situation. It has been a development for a number of years. As we speak, we have a war going on in Eastern Ukraine. Several have also touched upon and reminded us of the illegal annexation of Crimea by Russia. There are reasons for us in Sweden and in the Swedish Parliament to strengthen our ability in various ways. Here we take steps in the Swedish defence where we strengthen military and civil defence in different ways. It's important. It is a duty for us to ensure that protection against external threats is strengthened. But we all know in this House that we are building security together with other countries. Now this is not a NATO debate. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that today we are close partners with NATO, which is very good and important. But we also need, in the long run, to become a full member of NATO in order to be able to contribute to the defence, to common security and also to strengthen the protection of Sweden. Today we are discussing the cooperation that is under development for the EU and increased European cooperation in the field of defence equipment. This is something that the Christian Democrats welcome. Sweden should be the driving force in developing cooperation where there are good opportunities for cooperation and efficiency gains to increase both individual defence capabilities and common defence capabilities. At the same time, as many have said, we do not have the task of making a common European army. Instead, it is about deepening cooperation, intelligence and cyber security, which is something that I personally am very committed to. It is about strengthening in different ways the lack of cyber security that exists in our country and across Europe. There we are very vulnerable to attacks. That is something we have all been aware of recently. We need to increase and strengthen our capabilities both nationally and within the EU where we can work together. On the issue of the European Defence Fund, like the majority in committee, we believe that EU funds should provide equal opportunities for industry in all European countries. It is also important, as we point out, that it should in no way duplicate what NATO is already doing. That is something that was agreed at the NATO Summit in Warsaw in 2016. There is a joint declaration by NATO and the EU on how the two organisations should mutually strengthen their strategic partnerships and not double in any way.
