i-6f7906a360d2f467-0	Mr President, I would like to I believe that many will remember 2016 as a year of concern. A year when all the positive things in the world, such as falling poverty and higher levels of education, ended up in the shadow of terror, war and rising temperatures, a real climate threat. A year when the world seemed a little crueler, a little colder, a little more hateful. These concerns differ between people. I'm talking about the concern of you living in an area plagued by crime and may hesitate to go out into the square after dark. I'm talking about the concerns of you who retired after a hard career but still wondering if you'll be able to afford a new winter jacket after all the bills are paid. I'm talking about the concern of you who may have a good financial situation but who look your child or grandchild in the eye and wonder: What kind of school are we sending you to? In what world do you grow up? It's your concern that we're about to face. We will meet it together to strengthen the faith of the future. What else could be more important in a democracy? Right now Sweden is making progress in the world. Our employment rate is the highest ever measured by Eurostat in an EU country. Our school finally shows a positive trend break in international measurements. Our economy shows the highest level of housing construction in decades and was recently appointed the second most innovative economy in the world. I'm not happy. There's so much left. But, Mr President, the power that we now see in the Swedish economy is to be used for a community building that benefits everyone. It is a community building that reaches out to suburbs and places of use, that lifts people out of disillusionment and hopelessness and makes everyone who can work also work. It is a community building that honors the generation that has built the country and therefore ensures that there are retirement homes and strengthens the financial conditions of pensioners so that they do not just feel secure. They should also feel freedom. It is a building of society that, after years of cutbacks, starts to rearrange the total defence of our country. Not least, it is a community building that supports its social workers – it is nurses; it is preschool teachers – and strives to be able to go to work strong, proud and capable of creating the welfare that we all want to be able to rely on. It is a community building that creates peace and study in school in line with what I and Minister Gustav Fridolin present today. We develop teachers' leadership in the classroom, increase teachers' support from both colleagues and principals and ensure that each school has working rules. I refuse to allow Sweden's growing resources to be centered on the richest, the luckiest already. They are to go to a community building so that the whole country can live and the entire population is safe.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-10	This also means that we must never give an inch to organised crime. We have previously strengthened and will continue to strengthen the police's efforts against the gangs. We've made it easier to seize the gang's assets. Now we're tightening up the penalties for serious gun crimes. The person who goes out with an illegal weapon should know that it may be several years before it can see the family again outside the prison walls. When I and Minister of the Interior Anders Ygeman met police officers in Gothenburg who are investigating the act against the eight-year-old boy, they also demanded harder hands-on grenades. I can therefore state today that the minimum penalty for carrying hand grenades is quadrupled. Whether criminals have a k-piste or a hand grenade on them, they will be detained until trial. In our community, organized criminals will be removed from our streets and into our prisons.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-12	And who in this room honestly believes that the construction of society that Sweden needs is done through tax cuts for the richest, wage cuts for the poorest, a welfare based on profit hunting or a country that is characterised by greater divides? The Moderates seem to think so. Although they are happy to talk about concern, they only present the same old moderate policy, whose biggest winner is those who already have the best. The Swedish democrats have announced that they are happy to help implement this, as long as they get their piece of the power cake. I have never met a person who is more secure by lower wages, by less educational opportunities or less well-being. After all, anxiety does not come from people expecting less of our common society. They expect more, and that is why the Swedish model should not be phased out. It's going to evolve.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-16	If this is the case, the political battle will be in 2017. We are not going to make new cuts that are causing people's concerns. We are going to build a community that strengthens their faith in the future. It's my choice. It's Social Democracy's choice. It's the government's choice. And I am proud of that, Mr President.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-17	Mr President, I would like to Honored listeners! Leanne had longed so long for this night. For the first time ever, she went abroad with three friends. They flew to Istanbul. They went to Reina's Reina to celebrate New Year's. Leanne Nasser, Palestinians from the village of Tira, became 18 years old. She became another victim of terrorism in an attack in which 39 people from 14 countries died. IS has taken on the attack. A few days later, a truck drove into a crowd in Jerusalem. Yael Yekutiel served in Israeli military service and was one of four who died. She was 20 years old. The terrorists are against our way of life. But we will defend what we believe in: an open and democratic society in which both women and men can take their place, a society where the important thing is not who you are or where you come from, but where you are going. Mr President, I would like to In just a few years the world has become a much more dangerous place. Anyone who thinks the refugee crisis is over is naive. The war in Syria is about to enter its sixth year. An aggressive Russia has made Sweden's neighbourhood more uncertain. It is not enough to present a long list of problems and then call it strategy. Action is needed now. That is why I would like Sweden to give the defence an additional SEK 500 million in the spring amending budget, in addition to the defence decision taken by this House. I want to strengthen the defense by firing a total of 8 1⁄2 billion before the next defense decision, because this uncertainty is increasing now. Sweden's security will be built with other countries. We need both to strengthen our own capabilities and to strengthen cooperation within the EU, but that is not enough. Cooperation with NATO is crucial for creating stability and security in Sweden's neighbourhood, but it is not enough either. Sweden needs a roadmap for membership of NATO. Mr President, I would like to Uncertainty does not exist only in the outside world. It was only one o'clock in the day when Salam Kurda and the other traders closed their stores in the center of Husby. Time and again they had been subjected to crimes, serious burglaries and serious vandalism, but had faced closed investigations and seen criminals go free and criminal gangs in practice take over. The dealers in Husby have a requirement. They say: We want the police and politicians to protect their citizens and the local business community. It sounds like a matter of course, but that is not the case today. Unfortunately, Husby is not the only place that is insecure. Only yesterday, the Crime Prevention Council presented figures showing an increase in insecurity. Every third woman is insecure at night in her own residential area. Sweden needs more police officers, at least 2,000 more. They need to be paid 2 000 a month more, but that is not enough; the police also need a new management. Organisation is not the answer to all questions, but the government is responsible for the fact that central social functions actually work. And responsibility for the government has Stefan Löfven. Sweden should have a security that does not betray anyone. Power must be taken back from criminal gangs, and criminals must be stopped – in prison. Mr President, I would like to All of Sweden is going to work. But there are 130 areas where not even half of the adults go to work on a normal day. Where jobs become fewer, the dependency on benefits grows. It has consequences both for the individual people and for whole societies. In Södertälje, the municipality spends more money on grants to those who do not work than to teachers in preschool. In Malmö, the municipality spends three times more money on grants for those who do not work than at teachers in high school. On one point you can always trust the Swedish Social Democratic Workers' Party: You take from those who work and give to those who do not. There are examples where the family's income falls when the mother gets a part-time job. There are examples of how contributions are stacked on each other so that it is possible for a family with three children to receive nearly $8,000 in benefits after tax. It doesn't make sense. I am convinced that the vast majority of them want to work instead and quickly get into work. However, we must stop dwindling with those who take the right to live on others, even though they could support themselves. That is why we need a premium ceiling, reduced tax on the first job and a clearer requirement to get a job. It must always pay better to work than to go on grants. It is time to put an end to unconditional subsidy policy!
i-6f7906a360d2f467-32	Mr President, I would like to Today, it is exactly 18 years since Samir took the car to Borås, knocked at Ericsson and could put the time as unemployed behind him. He describes the job as a second home, but now that factory is to be closed down. The Swedish economy and industry have long been strong. They've created jobs. You become proud as a Swede when the bus in India is from Scania. However, the Ericsson crisis reminds us that the pressure on Swedish jobs is enormous – from new technology and from other countries. It reminds us that Swedish jobs and Swedish entrepreneurship are at risk of losing ground. But instead of a policy for more Swedish jobs, the government raises taxes by 60 billion. For every crown the government claims to invest in entrepreneurship, you take ten from what creates jobs. The government increases taxes on petrol, diesel, road transport and air transport. It is a policy that brings Sweden and jobs in the wrong direction. My plan for a stronger Sweden does the opposite; it must always pay off to work. It introduces zero tolerance to bad schools. It introduces more math and programming in school so that more people can learn more. It makes it always better, not worse, to create Swedish jobs here in Sweden. That's the only way we can break the alienation. The whole of Sweden is going to work – that's only how Sweden can do more.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-36	Mr President, I would like to When we now write just over a week in 2017, it may be appropriate to say something about the year that has passed. In 2016 we in our part of the world witnessed a popular uprising against the long-standing left-liberal establishment. The British referendum on the European Union and the American presidential elections are probably the two clearest examples of this. We have been able to see how IS at home has been pushed back. The hope of an end to this Islamic killer cult has grown somewhat stronger. At the same time, and certainly as a result of this very fact, we have also had to witness continued terror in our immediate neighbourhood – appalling attacks on us, our civilisation and our way of life. Russia's aggressions, a potential threat that no other party in this House has taken seriously until recently, have become increasingly evident and are also taking up more and more space in the political debate. War and misery, especially in Syria, have continued to create misery and to claim human lives. The UNHCR announced in 2016 that the number of refugees around the world has now passed 65 million. Most of them remain in the immediate vicinity of the crises, although it can be hard to believe when listening to the Swedish internal political debate. Mr President, I would like to In fact, here at home we have seen a rather broad recovery in migration policy. Steps have been taken in the right direction, although they have been far too small and come far too late. The debate on integration has also shifted in the right direction. Suddenly almost everyone is talking about Swedish values, something that few at all thought existed just a few years ago. The begging debate has moved in the right direction: even the government is talking about a ban in some form against begging. Defence and security policy begins so small that, for better or for worse, it takes its place high up on the political agenda. There are light points, Mr President, but unfortunately it is above all the darker colors that characterize the year 2016. The care queues continue to be long and steadily growing. The number of older people at risk of poverty is increasing. There is a shortage of retirement homes. The health centres are too few; for example, we have been able to read about how women have been forced to fly to Finland to fit in a neonatal department. The number of reported offences has continued to increase, while the number of solved offences has decreased. The police may be in a more strained condition than ever before. Housing queues have continued to grow. Immigration has remained high. Concerns and insecurity are increasing, which we not least got to us yesterday through a new report. Mr President, I would like to Sweden undoubtedly has major problems. Unemployment remains high, regardless of what the Prime Minister stands here and says, especially among those who have their background in other parts of the world, outside Europe. We can note that the job-creating flagships that Stefan Löfven highlighted in the election movement have all flopped completely. Trainee jobs, extra services, training contracts and everything he now calls them – the whole thing has flop at. We have a total integration policy which, of course, has an impact on the labour market but also on society as a whole, because integration is so much more than just jobs and employment. Every day that goes by without our government understanding this is unfortunately a lost day. The present government, Mr President, has no capacity whatsoever to hold our country together. Welfare is, to put it mildly, strained. Our defence lacks the ability to respond to the changing security situation in our part of the world. This debate is being held at a time when we are faced with what is commonly termed in political language a difficult challenge. Every day I become more and more concerned about the total inability of the present government and the resistance to reality that characterises their analysis and policy. Sverig e needs a new governance, Mr President, which can tackle our country's problems and challenges on the basis of what reality actually requires.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-51	Mr President, I would like to I believe in Sweden. We are a country that takes on great challenges and always builds something better. 2017 will review the principles that build a modern, strong social contract. Let me suggest three. First, it is your effort at school that will determine your future, not the home you grow up in. The results in PISA, Timss and the increasing eligibility for nines to upper secondary school are strength certificates for Swedish school. At the same time, however, children's results are increasingly affected by such things as having your own corner to read homework in and how many books are in the parents' bookshelf. It's a waste. Listen to the business leaders and new thinkers who have built up Sweden! They testify to different backgrounds and crooked educational trips in an often tougher time than ours, but one thing they have in common: They got a strong school. Fifteen years ago Sweden still had one of the most equal school systems in the world. We're going back there. Sweden cannot afford to waste talent.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-54	School inequality does not arise in a vacuum. The growing inequality reflects growing gaps. For children who grow up in insecurity, learning is more difficult. That is why we have broken out of the insurance of sick parents, abolished f as 3 and ensured that children who need glasses get it regardless of their parents' wallet. Equality is a policy of knowledge. This was not understood by the previous government. With the financial crisis, the gap grew. Instead of closing the school from the crisis, job tax deductions were made. Employees were cut off. The students were given less time with their teachers, and that, of course, struck the hardest against those who need the school most. The inequality of PISA is thus a receipt of who paid for the crisis. The government is breaking down with the cuts. We hire more at school. We invest in what is most important for the students who have the toughest: student health, school libraries, special education, recreation centres, reading-write-count guarantee – yes, more time with the teachers. It is of course good for everyone but most important for those who need the school most. Secondly, the construction of society offers many ways to build their future, but there are no shortcuts. There are young people who describe that the only job market they saw was open was the criminal. They were drawn into crime at an early age. Then society should go the other way. Regardless of where you grow up, it should be clear that you can build your life, get a job, start a business and avoid discrimination and be judged in advance. The segregation will be broken. The creativity of the young boys is to be used in a workplace, not at a crime scene. Then there is no contradiction between being hard on the causes of crime and being hard on crime, on the contrary. The weapons and the unscrupulous professional criteria that drag young people into destroying their lives are to be removed from the street. Follow-up of truancy will help us find young people on glide before the first crime is committed. And for young people who commit crimes, the penalties should come quickly and be clear. One who is too young for prison should be sentenced to house arrest, so that electronic anklet helps parents keep children at school during the day and at home in the evening. Thirdly, we should be able to live good lives without destroying those who come after us. Economics literally means the teaching of sparing resources. But we have lived as if there were so many globes. If everyone were to consume resources at the rate we are doing in Sweden today, we would need two more globes. We eat from the resources our children need to build their lives. 2016 was the warmest year ever measured. We are hitting the ceilings that we promised each other and our children in Paris not to exceed. It's serious now. The economy, technology and politics must jointly drive development into a society where we do not wear out people and the environment – a fossil-free welfare society. Climate policy is at the heart of economic policy. Environmental investments, taxes that make it more expensive to shit down but cheaper to start smart startups and creative companies, recycling, repair reductions, green cities, renewable energy, solar cells, charging poles, biogas, trains and cycle paths – Sweden takes the lead. Mr President, I would like to This is a policy against divides, crime and climate threats – against things that worry us all. For fear without action is the enemy of any political vision. It scares us about the future. But political action brings us forward, and our job as politicians is to tackle the problems we face and show that there is a better society, a future to be longed for.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-64	Mr President, I would like to We have just left 2016 behind, a year of events that we will remember for a long time. It was a year with a lot of darkness and a year of great concern, brutality and insecurity: Aleppo, Istanbul, Nice, Baghdad, Berlin– gross acts of violence in Malmö, Ronneby and Gothenburg and also Husby, where traders around the turn of the year in protest against the increasing crime closed their business in the centre. The ceasefire in Syria remains fragile. People keep running. The security situation has not improved. There is insecurity in the world, also at home in Sweden. For our part, insecurity is not least about jobs, about the social and regional split that comes from people being unemployed. It is about the crisis in the police, the fear of being unaided if anything happens and about crime, violence and theft tours in the countryside. Bluelight personnel are being attacked, the police lack resources and police officers in external service resign. It's about welfare. Schools, health centres and retirement homes are threatened with closure when the government attacks freedom of choice. Nurses, teachers, nurses and also students risk losing their jobs and their school. Accessibility, that you can get care when you need it, risks getting worse, and queues become longer. The uncertainty is also about the security situation, about an increasingly aggressive Russia and about misinformation and cyber threats, which the US Intelligence Service believes has also affected the outcome of the US presidential elections. It is not good enough for a government to refuse to listen to the warning bells that are totally roaring in terms of security policy. It is not good enough, as the Prime Minister is now doing, to dismiss concrete proposals to strengthen defence capabilities such as bidding and auctioning. Responsibilities are required. Resolute action and more resources are needed, both now and in the longer term. Mr President, I would like to This is the reality we are in. The insecurity is there, but it can and must meet. If 2016 was a dark year, the coming year will be brighter. Mr President, I would like to We're slowly heading towards 1 million people in alienation. The regional and social cleavage that the Center Party has long spoken of is real. The insecurity people feel when they do not have a job must be taken seriously. It's real. It is about those parts of Sweden where jobs have disappeared, where globalisation is more reminiscent of depopulation than of growth. These are places in our rural and sparsely populated areas where jobs did not come back after the economic crisis came to a halt. It's all about neighborhoods where the outsider lives in every stairwell. It is a matter of the business environment failing to measure up. Thresholds entering the labour market are too high in both neighbourhoods and rural areas. The thresholds are so high that integration is lame and society is divided. It is possible to reverse this trend and create more jobs throughout the country, but then several decisive steps need to be taken. The labour market requires reforms. The business environment must be strengthened. We must move away from old-fashioned social-democratic policies that only raise taxes and dig deep holes in people's wallets. The Swedish model needs to be renewed. We must face automation, digitalisation and globalisation in order to continue to stand up to global competition and ensure our competitiveness. We must realise that all jobs are needed. It is necessary if we are to succeed in integration. We need jobs that require excellence, but also jobs that are simpler and do not require longer education. The Centre Party therefore wants to make it easier for those who are untested in the labour market to get their first job by cutting the cost of hiring. We also want to triple the RUT deduction, so that more new arrivals, more foreign born and more people who are far from the labour market can get their first job. There is also a need for a better business environment where entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship, risk-taking and job creation pay off. Therefore, as the only party we want to restore the ROT deduction. Carpenters, painters, electricians and small businesses all over Sweden will continue to be able to develop companies and create jobs. When it comes to jobs, the Center Party will continue to stand for a policy that creates jobs throughout Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Insecureness can be turned into faith in the future. We all have the opportunity to make that journey by giving people throughout the country a chance to work, through a strong legal society that is taking a strong stance against violence and crime, through a welfare that increases the quality of the country and by increasing our ability to withstand external threats. With concrete reforms, with strong values and policies that make a difference in people's everyday lives, we can build confidence in the future and optimism.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. There has been a rather bleak picture of reality in Sweden and, not least, last year, 2016. I share the gloomy picture of last year. It was in many ways a terrible year. There was a lot of racism, a lot of terror, a lot of violence and a lot of uncertainty. If you listen a little more to those who speak in the speaker's chair, you can hear the nuances and differences in the description of reality. The government talks a lot about what goes well in Sweden – it is clear that a government does. It is said that the economy is strong, that more people have a job to go to and that school results may have turned around. Let's hope that's true. The opposition is considerably gloomier – it is perhaps an opposition's role to be gloomy sometimes. You mostly talk about the things that go bad and paint a little blacker picture. The most expensive of all is as usual Jimmie Åkesson. He was so preoccupied with a gloomy story about Sweden that in five minutes he did not come up with a single political proposal about what to do. That's what it looked like.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-80	But how should you describe reality? I think both pictures are a bit true. In a way, it's fine. More people have work, and it's incredibly important. We're building more homes than before, and it's incredibly important. And we need to get the school results straight. Maybe we've turned this around-- that's great. Sweden has more billionaires than ever – 178. They're richer than ever. They've got a lot of money. Many people have it quite well in Sweden, but there are large groups in Swedish society who think it is a mockery to hear that Sweden is doing well. I think of all those who see their pension payments and notice that the money will not be enough this month. What can't they do this month? No, for them Sweden is not doing well. I am thinking of all those who would need a new home but who cannot afford to ask for the expensive right-of-occupancy housing and for all those who do not get enough hours in the hourly employment to pay the bills. I believe that there is the problem of inequality in Sweden. That is our great challenge. I believe that whoever is doing something about this today in Sweden is the Left Party. The elements of the state budget that actually go on the inequality problems come very largely from my party. It is the 10 left billions, which took effect at the turn of the year. It is the free health care for those who have turned 85. I would like to repeat the entire pension system – it is so unfair to workers and women. But when we are excluded from it, we shall at least make sure that you have access to health care, that you get lower taxes and that you get higher housing allowances – we in the Left Party do. We make better rules in the unemployment fund for it as part-time stamps. We fix better income limits in the housing allowance for families with children. We provide free dental care for young people – many have renounced this. We arrange free contraception for young people and young adults up to the age of 20. When it comes to accessing the too high aborigine in Sweden, it is free contraception and sex education that works. We're doing something about these things. We are starting to make efforts for the police to get all the cheating done by the hauliers and all the illegal transports on our roads. It also comes from the Left Party. Investing in research in working life comes from the Left Party. We make a difference in politics. We're gonna make even more difference. Together with the government, we are going to put forward proposals that finally take the profit hunt out of welfare. It affects Sweden. This makes Sweden more equal. This makes Sweden more fair. We're using the tax money the right way. So, do we have a deal? No, I'm afraid we're not. We're not in agreement with the government. Both Gustav Fridolin and Stefan Löfven said really good things about equality in the speaker's chair. I felt: That's right. But we have the 178 billionaires, who are richer than ever. They own twice as much as the Swedish state budget. That's how much they have in their coffers. And we know what it's like when we then negotiate the budget with the government. We say: can they not pay a few billion if they own 2 000 billion? Is it reasonable for those with the greatest wealth not to pay any wealth tax? If you inherit hundreds of millions, shouldn't you pay a crown in inheritance tax? If you have several large properties, much bigger than what you normally need to live in, should you not pay a higher property tax? In fact, the government will say no. I think the problem is here. If we are to solve the problem with those who do not get the pension to be enough, with those who have the precarious jobs and with the housing shortage, we must create a more equal Sweden, a Sweden where we contribute according to our ability. Then Sweden's 178 billionaires must also stand up. There goes the line of conflict in Swedish politics today.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-88	Mr President, I would like to If the school succeeds, Sweden will succeed, but if the school fails, Sweden will fail. The Alliance government's extensive school reforms have caused developments over decades with declining Swedish knowledge to reverse. Decades of fluid red-green school policy were replaced ten years ago by a liberal knowledge policy. Yesterday came the Swedish National Agency for Education's major evaluation of the most controversial of the school reforms that we carried out during our government, namely previous grades. The red-greens barked loudly and voted against previous grades, but yesterday the evaluation came. Eighty percent of the students in school now say they work harder when they get grades. 80 percent also believe that you can raise your grades through extra effort. Teachers find it easier to find students with difficulties. The principals consider it easier to follow up the results. Stefan Löfven and Gustav Fridolin! About school policy, you were wrong, wrong, wrong. If the grades were wrong, wrong, wrong. But we cannot sit back in the coming years – quite the opposite. PISA shows that knowledge results can be reversed through reforms, and we must continue to highlight the Swedish results. We need to move the grades down a few more grades in order to have the same positive effects there. We need more order and study discipline at school. We need, as is the case in the rest of the world, to give secondary schools the opportunity to give grades of order. We need more of caeder education and less of the under-teaching that means that students should learn themselves. We need to nationalize the school. We need to continue to invest in teachers and in their education. The Liberals' ambition is that in ten years' time Sweden will be among the ten in the world at the top of the PISA survey. It's a tough challenge. There are countries today that have very high ambitions. There is only one way to achieve that goal. It is about continuing knowledge reforms, not about the choice-handed powerlessness that now characterises Swedish school policy. Mr President, I would like to Integration is a major challenge in the coming years. There's a lot of potential as long as we give people a chance. It is always better to have a job, even if the job is simple and even if the salary at the beginning is a little lower, than to go on grant year after year, which is the situation today. Gender equality is facing new challenges through integration. Many women who come to Sweden live in oppression in honour cultures. Honorable crimes must be punished more severely, and we must make more frequent use of expulsions in such crimes. Mr President, I would like to Russian military armaments are continuing, including in the Baltic Sea region. In the coming years, Sweden will, for the first time ever, set aside less than 1 per cent of GDP for the defence. This is a consequence of the 2015 defence decision. As late as 1997, Sweden set aside 2 percent of the bnp for the defense, and then we did not even have a threat picture. Hundreds of hypermodern JAS aircraft are now to be scrapped, believes the government, because there is no money to operate. They have cost 100 billion of tax money in purchases, but they will now be phased out quickly. The 2015 defense decision is like a big black hole. The financial resources for defence need to be increased both strongly and in the near future, but the government is paralysed. Instead of more money, the government is setting up another defence investigation that will now think for three years. In the wake of a more troubled world, populism and extremism sprout. They are presented with simple messages that should be solutions to difficult societal challenges. Liberal values are now under threat in the Western world. As a liberal, therefore, the task ahead of us seems even more important than before. Liberals' goal is more freedom for individuals. School, integration and defence are three areas of society that properly managed everyone increases and secures the freedom of individuals, and that is why we will focus on these areas during this parliamentary year. There is a need for less populism and more liberalism in Swedish politics, and Sweden needs a new government.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-100	Mr President, I would like to We are a few days into the new year, and the change of year is a time for both retrospect and future reconnaissance. In 2016, many parts of the year became a year of insecurity. This was also how it began in 2017 with terrorist attacks at a nightclub in Istanbul and a terrorist attack in an open place in Jerusalem. We must condemn every terrorist attack, every act of terrorism, and the hope of a safer Sweden and a safer world must be strengthened. More is needed to meet the problems and challenges ahead. We Christian Democrats are concerned about the security of our environment and our neighbourhood. Unfortunately, we were not more secure when the government presented the national security strategy this weekend. It is a comprehensive description of the very serious situation but without concrete content about how Sweden will meet this. That is not good enough, Mr President. The 2015 defence decision needs to be updated. We welcome the resumption of the Defense Committee; it needs to get started immediately. Swedish defence capabilities must be strengthened in the near future. We Christian Democrats have a wide range of proposals, not least with regard to psychological defence. We want to introduce a cybersecurity authority, and we have also been proposing strong measures against terrorism for a long time. Sweden's security must be paramount, whether it be threats from within, threats from terrorists or threats from foreign power. Mr President, I would like to Insecureness must also be combated when it comes to everyday crimes. I had bad luck last year. The words aren't mine. They're Åke. Åke is 92 years old, and in Friday's Express he told us that last year he was robbed just outside his home not once, not twice, but three times! Åke likes to be out walking with the support of his rollator, but last year he was robbed on three occasions just outside his gate. It's impossible not to be touched by Åke's story. In many of us the anger is aroused that an elderly fellow man is hit by cowardly robbers in this way. At the same time, anxiety about self - suffering increases. It is a concern that causes many, not least the elderly, not to dare to go out, not to stay in the square or to hesitate to go to the shop or visit friends and family. Mr President, I would like to Åke is just one example of victims of the type of crime that today cannot be prioritised by the police due to a lack of resources. That can't be allowed to continue. Marianne, 79 years old, also belongs to the victims. The GT told me in New Year's Eve how she was brutally beaten down after asking some youths not to shoot rockets at her house. This must have consequences for the perpetrators, and it requires different priorities and resources than today. Now we have to stop the down-priority line!
i-6f7906a360d2f467-109	Mr President, I would like to That is why we are proposing to Christian Democrats 2 600 new police workers and better working conditions and salaries for police officers in external service in order for more people to remain in the profession. The police must also devote themselves to the core tasks. A police officer said this week in SVT that they could be ten times more in their group and still have difficulty fighting the drug trade in Husby, Rinkeby and Tensta. I myself have been there to see how police officers in external service are forced to give priority to drug crime. This isn't horror propaganda. It's real. Mr President, I would like to Security is also about finances and care. People who have lived most of their lives, who have been involved in building Sweden strongly should not have to worry that they will not get the right care and care or worry that the money will not be enough for the most necessary. We Christian Democrats want to carry out three major reforms for the elderly in order to improve the quality of life. We want to introduce the couple housing guarantee that enables older people who have lived together their whole lives to continue to do so when their health fails. We want to introduce care services teams that help with tasks related to care in order to facilitate the work of nurses and nurses. We want to introduce repatriation teams that help people home and re-establish themselves in their own home after hospitalisations. We also want to close the tax gap between pensioners and wage earners altogether. It is not just a question of money, Mr President. It is also about security and justice, issues that we think are important to turn insecurity into confidence in the future for the elderly too.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-114	Mr President, I would like to We have now heard the opposition describe a number of challenges facing Sweden: unemployment, segregation, gaps, welfare. On all this we agree, because for too many years in Sweden the gaps were allowed to increase. Against this the then bourgeois government did nothing. On the contrary, the gap increased throughout their government period, including tax reductions in the 140 billion class. What we are now looking at all over the world – b rexit, the rise of right-wing populism in Europe, the outcome of the US elections – should be a wake-up call or possibly a cold shower for those right-wing politicians who believe that it is tax cuts and worsening welfare that are the way forward for Sweden. On the contrary, many analyses repeat that in many countries real wages have not increased. Well, well-being doesn't measure up. People feel betrayed by developments. That's what we see in our world. Just the last, that people feel betrayed, we are also not spared from here in Sweden. But thanks to our Swedish model, we have been able to ensure that real wages have increased significantly and that we have a stronger welfare than many other countries. The answer to Sweden's challenges cannot therefore be that the Swedish model should be phased out. On the contrary – the answer is to develop the Swedish model. However, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats do not seem to have really understood. They continue to propose major tax cuts and cuts in welfare. They advocate winning at school and lowering the wages of ordinary people. Anna Kinberg Batra and Jimmie Åkesson! Why are you so focused on phasing out the Swedish model with a strong welfare and fair wages, what has built our country's success? Why?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-120	Mr President, I would like to Insecureness is increasing in Sweden. Every third woman is now worried about her safety and going out at night. The exposure to crime is increasing. Trust in the police is decreasing. Does the Prime Minister have confidence in the head of the National Police?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-122	Mr President, I would like to It is true that many experience insecurity. You shouldn't have to do that. We're going to have a safe society. It includes being hard on the crimes themselves, and we should be hard on the causes of the crimes. That is the dual approach, and that is why we are giving resources to the police. We are reorganizing the police, a reorganisation that we have both agreed on and where there is a broad agreement that it was absolutely necessary. But there must also be more resources. We are going to increase the penalties for many crimes, and we have already done so. We have started this, and we will continue. I told you in my speech what else should be done. The reorganisation must, of course, begin to produce results. There's the ambition that there will be more cops closer and out among the people. Yes, I have confidence in the head of authority. Now the job will continue, and we will make sure to deliver results.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-127	Mr President, I would like to The reason we Moderates spend ten times as much as the government in our budget on strengthening the police is because more police are needed. They need to be paid better. They must be given the opportunity to do their job to ensure security throughout the country. I take seriously the concerns that are now spreading. When one in three women is worried about going out at night, I ask again: Where is the responsibility for giving the police the opportunity to do their job? This responsibility lies with the Head of the National Police at the authority that is under the Government. The Prime Minister is responsible for the government. If I had the Prime Minister's job already now and he asked me if I am satisfied that insecurity is spreading and that people's confidence in the police is failing, I would give a clear answer to the question. I'd say no.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-130	Mr President, I would like to I am not surprised that Anna Kinberg Batra would answer no. That's a lot of signal politics. The government is increasing its resources to the police. There's never been as many employees in the police department as there are now. But there's no warehouse to take trained policemen from. They must be trained. We constantly provide the police with resources. We're gonna keep doing that. We're going to raise the penalties for crime. We will ensure that the reorganisation takes effect. It is the chief of authority's ultimate task to ensure that the new Police Authority brings the police closer to the citizens and that there is more security for the money. But a huge gigantic reorganisation – on which we all agreed – takes some time in one of our biggest agencies. The job will continue, and security will increase.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-133	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister described in his opening speech 2016 as the year of concern. I'm willing to agree with that. We have seen continued segregation and division. We have seen continued widespread insecurity. We have seen a continuing worrying security situation. Defence and security policy has, for obvious reasons, been up to date not least in the last week. Several voices have been raised, not least in order to strengthen the defence appropriations. The other day, I read an article in a newspaper where the Prime Minister calls this debate a budget bingo. The Prime Minister thus manages to wave away one for Sweden's safety and our security important debate. Mr President, I would like to Does Stefan Löfven not understand that this is about our security and security? Does Stefan Löfven not understand that our security costs money?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-137	Mr President, I would like to We took over from a government that regarded the defense as a special interest. We regard the defence as a fundamental national interest. The former government cut down on the defense. We're increasing to the defense. The former government removed military service. We are making sure to reintroduce a new form of military service. The previous government said that Sweden's defence begins somewhere away in Afghanistan. We say that the defence is of Sweden's borders. Now the government has begun a change of direction. We have done this in broad agreement, and I am proud of that. This is good and necessary for Sweden. We add more resources to the Swedish defence. Sweden will increase its defence capabilities. To hear that sum one day, the second day another sum and the third day a third sum – and then the person who suggested a sum says that it is possible to take the other's bid – well, then it becomes a grant bingo. Let us discuss how we increase defence capabilities, military and civil defence – hence total defence. That is the task, and we intend to do it.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-140	Mr President, I would like to I'm not going to say I got mute. I didn't get mute. If I interpret the Prime Minister correctly, he'll be standing here promising an increase in military spending. I can't interpret what he said in any other way. This is extremely positive – funding bingo or not. I understand that Stefan Löfven wants to beat his chest and say that the government has indeed increased the appropriations in broad agreement and so on. But the problem is that the Swedish Armed Forces are already saying that they lack a lot of billions in order to even achieve the goals of current defence decisions. It is up to 30 billion to achieve the targets in time. Already got as much money. Then the question is whether Stefan Löfven has come to this realization this week. Why was there no money in the budget we just decided on, which allows the Swedish Armed Forces at least to achieve the objectives that we have decided in broad agreement in the Swedish Parliament?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-143	Mr President, I would like to Now everyone heard a fourth number. Now it's 30 billion. We cannot keep saying that the defence should be added to so many billions – three four different amounts being thrown between each other. This is not how we strengthen Sweden's security. Safety is increased when we consider how Sweden's defence capabilities can be increased. What is it that needs to be done in addition to what is actually being done? It sometimes sounds as if Swedish defence does not receive any additions. We are increasing resources, adding more ammunition and more staff. Coastal missiles are amplifying. Military presence is deployed on Gotland. It is important, and we will continue. Let us at least discuss what needs to be done more specifically. We can't throw out a lot of bids and then adopt all four. We need to be resource efficient also in defence, and defence capabilities need to be increased. Then discuss defense skills, and don't start with caption bingo!
i-6f7906a360d2f467-147	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven should stop ralliing and take responsibility. Just now we heard Stefan Löfven express himself in the form of grant bingo. We've heard the bidding, and we've heard the auction. This is a party leader debate. Stefan Löfven is the party leader of the Social Democrats. Then it is our job to ask: what is the policy of the Social Democrats in the field of defence? How much do the Social Democrats want to add to Swedish defence? We are in a serious time. We are facing a new security policy situation. It is a time when warning bells are roaring over the deteriorating security policy situation. The new security strategy that has been presented is merely a description of the threats we face. Action is required. I presented a proposal earlier in the autumn that we should come up with at least the Nordic average. Does the Prime Minister think it is reasonable or unreasonable for Sweden to reach the Nordic average in terms of Swedish defence capabilities?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-151	Mr President, I would like to I say envelope bingo for the reasons I just mentioned when it only hails numbers in the air – no other corpse. The Centre Party proposed a certain amount. The next day it was said that you take the amount of the Moderates instead but that the government should first do a security inventory. First amount – then security inventory. That doesn't make any sense. Let us sit down and discuss responsibly. We have a broad agreement on the defense. Let's keep it and work on how to increase our defence capabilities. Start at that end! The government has begun its work. We strengthen submarine defence and submarine protection, aviation, coastal missiles, the presence on Gotland and so on. We will continue because Sweden's defence needs to be strengthened. A bnp digit is not only a blessing. It is the ability to defend that is the most important thing. It is Sweden's defence that is at stake.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-156	Mr President, I would like to Swedish defence and security policy is based on responsibility, action and a goal of achieving a broad consensus. It is also important to realise that broad consensus is not based on the fact that it is the policy of the Social Democrats that should prevail but that consensus is based on compromises. Therefore, it is interesting to know what the party leaders of the Social Democrats have entered into such talks. I am concerned about developments in Russia. The Swedish Defence Research Institute came before Christmas with a report that Russian military capabilities are being strengthened. The Swedish Institute for Foreign Policy states that Sweden is vulnerable to Russian misinformation and favska news. This type of war has increased in recent years. All the members of the Alliance realise this. The question is whether the S ocial democrats take this seriously enough. The Center Party has proposed a security inventory to strengthen Swedish defence capabilities in the short term. We have proposed to increase defence appropriations up to the Nordic average in the long term. The Prime Minister needs to keep an eye on those numbers. Does the Prime Minister think it is reasonable for Sweden to reach the Nordic average in the long term for Swedish defence grants?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-160	Mr President, I would like to Regarding Nordic averages and defence costs in relation to GDP: Yes, it can be an interesting comparison figure. But it's not the only thing that makes you happy. If a country gets much better GDP growth than another country, it suddenly has less defence capacity because it counts as a percentage of GDP. So that's not the whole truth. I'm talking about what makes a difference. What kind of equipment are we going to supply? What kind of people need to be provided? How will the organisation and infrastructure be strengthened? It is clear where we stand in this. We have reached a broad agreement, and that is what we stand up for. We will continue to strengthen our total defense. It is based on the fact that we are militaryly non-aligned, that we should have more cooperation and that we should increase our military capabilities and our total defence capabilities. I'm glad Annie Lööf mentions the broad consensus. Let us keep it for the defence of Sweden and Sweden. We are prepared to discuss increased defence capabilities, but we are not going to start with the number of billions.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-164	Mr President and Prime Minister Stefan Löfven! 中 Equality is as economically smart as moral law, and friends, freedom is best built in equal society. ..................................................... I quote you, Stefan Löfven, from a first-May speech. I agree with every syllable, because equality is a good thing in society. But that is not exactly what Sweden looks like today. We have a lot of people who don't get the pension enough. We have many insecure jobs. We have many who do not receive their compensation from Försäkringskassan. On the other end, the richest are richer than ever. We have 178 billionaires and 26 percent wage increases among Sweden's richest directors. The billionaires own more than double the sum of the Swedish state budget. For these, Sweden is a tax haven. We have no tax on wealth, no special tax on the most expensive properties and no tax on the largest inheritances. As long as it is, they will continue to pull away. Why are you not prepared to allow billionaires to contribute more to welfare?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-170	Mr President, I would like to The wealth tax that once existed proved to have very large gaps and difficulties. It was more or less voluntary. We cannot have such taxation. We increase equality in Sweden, and we do so together with the Left Party. Although it sometimes sounds to Sjöstedt that the Left Party has only added the good parts, it is in fact the whole budget that we agree on. Then we should also be able to agree, Jonas Sjöstedt, that a summary of this budget shows that we have gone from bourgeois budgets where most of it went to those who had the most to a budget where most of it goes to those who have the least. I want to continue on that path. Moreover, our budgets give more to women than to men. Let us continue to do so and ensure that equality is gradually increased. However, the most fundamental issue for this is that people have work. So let us put it first. First we must create prosperity; then we shall distribute it.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-174	Mr President, I would like to It is true that the distribution of the budget means that low-income earners and women win. I am proud of that, and we have contributed to it. But this does not mean that equality is increasing in Sweden. Despite the budgetary reforms, there is a risk that inequality will increase and the very richest will withdraw. I think that, unfortunately, is what is happening right now. It will be difficult to manage both jobs and welfare when it becomes as unequal as it is about to become. Therefore, it is reasonable that the absolutely richest contribute more to the common. You can have a different kind of wealth tax than the one we had, and I think we have to have that. Why should you not pay a crown in tax on an inheritance of several billions? Why should you pay as much in property fees for a small, cheap house as for the most expensive and fancy? Here we do not agree, Stefan Löfven.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-178	Mr President, I would like to I think we agree that we need to review the tax system as a whole. It's a bigger work than doing an operation here and there. We will increase equality in Sweden, and we will do so. We are now looking at the so-called Gini coefficient. We have had a dramatically rising one, which means that fewer and fewer people own more and more. This is what we are going to break 17 years ago, because we are going to have a more equal Sweden. But that presupposes, first of all, that people get to work. More people in work are and remain number one. Then we'll create well-being. If we look at, for example, the Gini coefficient and add welfare activities, we see that something happens to equality. That is why we should continue to ensure that people are in work, create values into welfare and distribute welfare so that it benefits people.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-182	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister's description of the defence policy is dishonest. He criticises the alliance government for having an unambitious defence policy, and that can be discussed. But he forgot to mention that the Social Democrats wanted to cut back on defence during the time of the alliance government. They wanted to cut $5 billion off the defense budget. If this had happened, we would have had an even worse starting point today. In addition, you voted against the FRA Act and voted in favour of Swedish intelligence only listening to old phones and not modern IT communications. It's something to think about in the era of cyber warfare. If we had been on a Social Democratic defence policy during these years, Sweden would have been less equipped today. But the question I want to ask is: In what way is Swedish defence strengthened by the fact that you are now going to scrap out 100 modern JAS aircraft?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-186	Mr President, I would like to As far as defence appropriations are concerned, let me remind you that, as late as 2014, we proposed an increase of almost 1 billion. Then you sat in the government and said no. You, Jan Björklund, sat in a government that said that the defense was a special interest. You cut down, and you were so sure that military service had to go and that it was the best thing you could do for the defense. Now you're just as sure we're gonna go the other way and have conscription again. It's not credible. You could reasonably not have done so when you were in command: first lead the troops in one direction, straight into the forest, and then repent and lead them in the opposite direction. I hope you didn't do that as a major. There must be order in the defence policy. Let's try to get along. Jan Björklund sometimes tells us that we will try to find the middle of politics. I suggest that Jan Björklund then also endeavours and tries to get involved in the discussions and agreements.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-190	Mr President, I would like to Gotland's defence was dismantled, the anti-aircraft was almost dismantled, the air force was almost decommissioned and the army was almost decommissioned with the Social Democratic defense decisions. Many mistakes have been made over the years, and the 2009 defense decision by the Alliance should, with the facts in hand, have been stronger. There's no doubt about it. But now we're discussing here and now. It is about 100 fighter aircraft where the last was delivered from the production in Linköping two years ago. Now they should be scrapped because you think you can't afford to run them, can't afford to hire pilots and can't afford workshops and air bases. Taxpayers have spent SEK 100 billion on these aircraft. Now you're moving from an air force on 100 planes down to 60 planes. The Prime Minister just said that the government is strengthening air defence. How do you strengthen air defence by scrapping out 100 modern JAS aircraft?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-193	Mr President, I would like to Let me remind Jan Björklund once again who has been conducting what policy. The restructuring of the Swedish Air Force began during your reign. It's about when the so-called JAS Gripen C/D should be switched over to E. C/D Planes will not disappear tomorrow or next year. They will be fully operational by the mid-2020s when the E-version has gradually been introduced. It is therefore a false description that your government and yourself, Jan Björklund, were not in on it. Yes, we agreed on this. It's also a false description when you say we're gonna scrap planes. It won't happen. They will be the backbone of Swedish air force for several years. I think you know this, Jan Björklund, because you know a lot about Swedish defence policy. I'm afraid it's just simple polemics. I wish we could meet in a factual discussion on how to strengthen defence capabilities. That's my ambition. Make it yours too, Jan Björklund!
i-6f7906a360d2f467-198	Mr President, I would like to I mentioned Åke, 92 years old, in my main speech. In Friday's Express, Åke told us how he was robbed not on one or two but three occasions last year. I find it hard to let go of what he was subjected to by cowardly robbers. This is just one in a series of examples of everyday crimes involving, not least, the elderly. This is evident not least in rural areas, where the police are far away, but also where the police are close but have neither the time nor the resources to prioritise this type of crime. The police are in crisis, Mr President, but Stefan Löfven does not want to speak in his mouth. Are you prepared to admit that the Swedish police are in crisis, Stefan Löfven, and what are your measures to turn this crisis into confidence in the future for Åke and other elderly people?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-200	Mr President, I would like to In this area too, labels are not the most important thing. You can stand and talk about crisis and say it so many times, but it doesn't get any better. Yes, Swedish police have problems in the new organisation and with making it work so that more police can be close, but don't tell me that Swedish police are no good! That's wrong. I've been out at a number of police stations talking to cops. They're doing an amazing job. One thing that I have learned from this contact is that they are saying that we should ensure that the reorganisation is carried out because it is right in itself. Then we need to do things within the reorganisation, and we need to improve that. But how is this to happen? Well, with more resources, and that's why we're adding it. Sounds like the police haven't got any more resources. They've got it, and they'll probably have more. But we don't have any trained people in stock to take up. We will strengthen the laws so that the criminals see that it is serious. That is what I have presented here today.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-205	Mr President, I would like to I think it's silly of the Prime Minister to stick on me a label – that I should have said that the police are not good enough for anything. I'm also out seeing cops, I'm on full duty and I see an enormous fire and almost fighting will among the police officers who are still in external service. However, many choose to quit. Working conditions are tough, and wages are too bad. We have put it in our budget for this year. The difference between Christian Democrats' and Government's policy, Stefan Löfven, is that your investments in the police are only after the next elections. You can talk about the big bets, but in reality, when the police are in crisis, it's underfunded. We need to take a strong shot to face the crime. We can talk about harsher penalties, but above all we need to talk about how to get more police officers into external service who can fight crime. This applies not only to everyday crimes but also to murders, beatings and other serious crimes, which today are being forced to be downgraded. This is your responsibility, Stefan Löfven.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-208	Mr President, I would like to That is quite right, and that is why we are providing the police with resources. The police have been given more resources. The police should have more resources. We will pursue the reorganisation that we agreed on and that the police themselves say must be implemented. Again, and this also applies to Andreas Carlson: If you have a warehouse of trained police officers, show us that! There's no such thing. We need to train police officers gradually. If Andreas Carlson and the Christian Democrats believe that the problems they paint are best solved by tax cuts, they are wrong. All the problems presented here by the opposition, including the Christian Democrats, can be solved through more tax revenues. We need more work together in our country, not tax cuts and cuts.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-211	Mr President, I would like to Work means community, belonging and the power to shape one's life and future. The fact that more women and men find a job is crucial to keeping Sweden together. That is what the new Prime Minister, Stefan Löfven, said in his 2014 Declaration of Government, and let me agree on one occasion here today, Mr President. But how'd it go? The number-sharing of the labour market is increasing. This is how the Employment Service wrote in its report in December. Three out of four unemployed people belong to groups that find it very difficult to get a job at all. Those affected are, above all, young people who are not educated and who are born abroad. We have the equivalent of 1 million people living from benefits instead of supporting themselves through their own work. After 831 days with Stefan Löfven it appears: The government's lack of employment policy hits those who still haven't got their first job, those who have no job to go to at all. Stefan Löfven promised to solve this with 85 000 additional services, trainee jobs and training contracts. When Aftonbladet counted recently it had become 4,019. This year, the so-called modern preparedness jobs will be introduced. About 500 people will have to sort documents on agencies such as Fortificationsverket, when Sweden would in fact need about 150 000 simple jobs to manage the jobs and integration. It is not an easy task. It requires a plan for a stronger Sweden where it becomes easier and cheaper to hire, where it pays better to work and to go from grant to job and where many more simple jobs can emerge – more real jobs, more Swedish jobs and more who get their first job. All of Sweden is going to work.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-216	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to call on Anna Kinberg Batra to read the unemployment figures and take note of the fact that 120 000 more people have a job to go to. We do not intend to give priority to measures for the sake of these measures; they are for people to move away from unemployment. If you go from unemployment to work, it's better. I think that is a good policy. The Moderates now want to lower the unemployment benefit on the grounds that it increases the incentive to work. It's nothing new under the sun. It's just that they have other arguments for other groups. While they want to reduce the compensation in the unemployment fund for those who have lived and worked in Sweden, they suggest that new arrivals should be able to receive double compensation. New arrivals with full start-up allowance should therefore be able to work and receive salary at the same time without affecting the level of remuneration. Can you explain to me how it works, Anna Kinberg Batra? Why should new arrivals be treated radically differently from other unemployed people?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-218	Mr President, I would like to A few hours into the debate it is becoming clear what Stefan Löfven is doing: to try to minimize Sweden's major social problems now and in the next few years, namely that we have the equivalent of 1 million living from benefits instead of work. Unlike Stefan Löfven, I take this seriously. I am not content to look at what unemployment statistics look like for those who are best established in the labour market. I focus on those who have the greatest problems, who have not got that first job and who do not have the ability to make a living and stand on their own feet. I think this is a major social problem that needs to be resolved. That is why we Moderates propose strong measures to move from grants to jobs – it must pay better. We must make demands on those who have benefits and we must have better opportunities to live on the first job. Otherwise, Sweden does not stick together. Instead of talking about this and taking it seriously, Stefan Löfven is doing what the so-called workers' party does best, namely to talk about subsidies. But it's the jobs that's the problem.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-222	Mr President, I would like to I ask again: why should new arrivals have double benefits while those who live here in Sweden and are unemployed should not have it? Why is it effective for some unemployed people to have reduced unemployment benefits while others should have double benefits? That was my question, and I didn't get an answer to it. I would like to remind Anna Kinberg Batra that when she was the group leader of the Moderates here in Parliament and when we had a moderate government for eight years, unemployment increased. At that time, long-term unemployment increased, when youth unemployment increased, when the number of social security recipients increased and the number of exclusion areas increased. We've turned this now. We are far from satisfied, but 120 000 more people have a job now. I'm glad. Let's make sure that everyone who can work will do the same. The directional change has been made. Now it's time to get it to hold on. It is not tax cuts, cuts and lower remuneration that do this, but it is jobs for people that make a difference.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-225	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with a short history lesson. Unfortunately, when we lost the 2014 election, more foreign born in Sweden than ever went to work. I am proud of that, but it is not enough on long roads after the refugee crisis of recent years when we have so many new arrivals who have not established themselves in Sweden. That is what Sweden looks like today. This is where we have the risk of exclusion for the many new arrivals who have not been able to establish themselves in Sweden. Then Stefan Löfven will focus on the contributions, as he usually does. But I can answer simply: The best thing is not to have to depend on subsidies but to be able to make a living through one's own work. That is why Sweden needs 150 000 simple jobs, which you close your eyes to, which you are glaring about and which you call something completely different. But Sweden must be able to create these jobs in order to break the exclusion. This is our big challenge, and you close your eyes to it.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-227	Mr President, I would like to In our speeches here, both I and Anna Kinberg Batra have addressed the issue of widespread insecurity and increasing social insecurity. This is urgent. One thing that was noted the other day is that very few foreign citizens in Sweden are convicted of serious crimes and then expelled. Very few are even sentenced to expulsion in Sweden. Only just under 20% of foreign citizens are sentenced to a sentence in an institution that is also sentenced to expulsion. Nine out of ten of those convicted of violent crime actually remain in Sweden. Even if you are expelled, you are still very much released. Three out of four are released after serving time, even though they are to be expelled. Mr President, I would like to Then my question to Anna Kinberg Batra, who claims to have reconsidered her view of migration and immigration policy, is whether she is prepared to do something about this with me.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-231	Mr President, I would like to I want Sweden to have a security that means that no one is betrayed – no woman and no man anywhere. Then we have major problems in the areas where criminal gangs have taken over. Then it is crime that must be stopped. No matter who commits crimes or why, it is the crime that must be stopped by the present police and by severe penalties for serious violent crimes. Then there is an opportunity today to expel those who are not Swedish citizens and who are convicted of a serious crime. I think that this opportunity should be used to a greater extent and normally taken up by prosecutors. But the important thing for me is not who commits the crime or where they come from, but that the whole of Sweden should be safe. It requires police officers, it requires them to be able to do their job, and that is also why it requires a new police leadership.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-233	Mr President, I would like to I do not know if this was the answer to my question, which was nevertheless quite concrete. I agree with everything Anna Kinberg Batra said about the whole of Sweden being safe, and I think everyone here agrees that the whole of Sweden should be safe. That is the way to which we may not be in full agreement. But one way there could be to expel serious criminals who are not Swedish citizens but who commit serious crimes in Sweden. It is happening today to a very small extent. At that time, my question about Anna Kinberg Batra is prepared to ensure with me that this can be done to a greater extent, so that three out of four sentenced to deportation are not released on the loose after the sentence has been served. Many of them disappear without trace, and the authorities have no idea where they are. This is something that very concretely can actually increase the security of Swedish society. I therefore repeat my question: is Anna Kinberg Batra prepared to actually do something about this? I believe that we can create a majority in the Swedish Parliament to do something about this if we cooperate on this issue.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-236	Mr President, I would like to It works as it does in this House that spring is devoted to legislative decisions. Earlier in the autumn, Beatrice Ask and I presented proposals on this. There have been moderate proposals for quite a long time to make greater use of the opportunity already available in Swedish law to expel those who are not Swedish citizens and who are convicted of a serious crime. If we have criminal law aimed at serious crimes, it should also be used. That is my view, and it has been for a long time. I will vote in favour of this in this House, and everyone in this House should do so.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-237	Mr President, I would like to This was what Anna Kinberg Batra had to say about the climate in her speech. Since you, Anna Kinberg Batra, obviously missed mankind's greatest question of fate now, in your Christmas speech, in your summer speech, in your Almedal speech, in your speech on the moderate Swedish days and in the five party leaders' debates that you have so far participated in here in Parliament, I thought: I suppose she will get another chance. Climate change is real. The Paris Agreement is clear: All countries, including Sweden, are responsible for reducing their emissions. No one can blame anyone else. So what do the Moderates want to do to reduce the Swedish climate emissions?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-240	Mr President, I would like to I thank Gustav Fridolin for this. Welcome to read more carefully the previous speeches that have been given in this House, among others, so we can discuss it when we have more time than today! I am pleased and proud that the Paris Agreement has been concluded. But in the uncertain world that we have, it is not enough to hold it in your hand. That is why I mentioned, for example, the importance of safety and security. That is why we need to strengthen defence, and that is why we also need to ensure that we have an economy that allows us to continue to operate in the country, to operate industrial production and to operate entrepreneurs. During the time of the alliance government, we became the country with the highest share of renewable energy in Europe and which invested the most in renewable energy. That's a good thing. Does Gustav Fridolin know what it requires? It requires order and order in the economy, growth and that we can keep nuclear power instead of early retirement, which was close to happening the other year.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-243	Mr President, I would like to It is true that the Moderates could ultimately rely on the market principles for energy, after a bit of tumbling, and conclude that this will lead to Sweden receiving a 100 percent renewable energy system. That was a good deal. The only problem is that you do not seem to believe in these market principles in environmental policy in general. You want to reduce the CO2 tax – the most important economic instrument for the environment. You say no to the fact that the plane will bear its environmental costs. You say no to moving heavy goods transport from truck to shipping and rail. You're saying no to the cost of shitting. It's not believing in the market. That's ignoring the environment. Then you say that this will be resolved elsewhere. However, on the Swedish Parliament's European Council, you sit with the Swedish Democrats and want to stop the government from pushing sharp demands for EU climate policy. And in your budget motion, you cut aid and want to stop us from helping those affected by climate change. Another chance: What do the Moderates want to do to reduce Swedish emissions? You should have an answer if you call yourself an opposition leader.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-247	Mr President, I would like to No one can go to work with the car in the morning if it is too expensive, if it is not possible to take the car and if you cannot get through Sweden. Our jobs and our economy depend entirely on the car and the truck. They are very happy to switch to fossil-free fuels. If you're going to switch petrol cars to electric cars, you're going to need electricity. We have a basically fossil-free source of electricity in nuclear power, which Gustav Fridolin wanted to close. How would it have improved the climate? It would have made the transition to electric cars more difficult. The most fun part of Gustav Fridolin's reply was that he suddenly started talking about market economy and economic growth. To the list of reading tips, I would like to add the Green Party's congress papers from the other year, when the Green Party rejected economic growth and wanted to have another economic system instead. You can't do the jobs, you can't do the climate.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-249	Mr President and Anna Kinberg Batra! In nine days, Donald Trump will take office as President of the United States. We do not really know what to expect, but we know that he is a man of reactionary values, lack of judgment and willingness to act – a likely rather unfortunate combination. During the election campaign, he has been inciting women and disabled people. He's been using racist stereotypes. He's shown that he doesn't care about climate change. He's got bad impulse control. He looks positively at Putin, and there are indications that Putin even has a hold on Donald Trump. He will not only be President; he will also be Supreme Commander of the United States. He'll be the most powerful man in NATO. It is the United States that has most nuclear weapons, and they have bases all over the country. Trump will in practice steer NATO's policy in the future – he is the most important person. You want to join NATO right when Donald Trump is taking office, Anna Kinberg Batra. Do you have faith in Donald Trumps's security policy?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-252	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your somewhat unexpected argument for NATO, Jonas Sjöstedt! It is by building security with others – by entering full membership into the structures where we shape security with others and stand up for each other – we can use and also influence the role of the United States. That is where we make decisions in consensus with the United States, at the negotiating table, rather than being one-sidedly vulnerable and, in this context, rather small country in bilateral dependence on all the things you listed. That is why we need to join NATO now.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-253	Mr President, I would like to No, Anna Kinberg Batra, it is not that Iceland and the United States have as much power in NATO. It's the United States that decides and weighs the heaviest. Donald Trump will be Commander-in-Chief. You refuse to answer the question if you have confidence in his security policy, but you think we should join NATO. Not only that; Turkey is the second most important military force in NATO. There you have today a dictator, Erdo中an, who is imprisoning oppositionists. He uses his military against the Kurds in his own country, and he enters Syria and Iraq with the military. It is a complete, authoritarian adventure policy. It is the other leader you want to link the fate of Swedish security policy to, Anna Kinberg Batra. The obligations are going in two directions in a military alliance. You refuse to answer if you have confidence in Trumps's security policy, which you are happy to do. But do you have confidence in Erdo中an's security policy?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-256	Mr President, I would like to No one in this House knows how the next American Government will act, but there is reason to follow it very closely. That's the only answer any of us have. Otherwise you speculate, have a crow or something else. Instead, let me refer to the neighbouring neighbouring country of Estonia. I met the newly appointed president, Kersti Kaljulaid, just before Christmas. Estonia is watching our common eastern border – the EU's and NATO's. One would not sit there and rely on a statement on, for example, a Twitter account if the Russian aggression increased, but in a sharp position it is the mutual obligations of the structure in which NATO exists – where decisions are made by consensus and where all members have seats at the table – that actually decides. It is crucial in the near future that Sweden can be there. Otherwise, we become one-sidedly dependent on and very exposed to one or the other President's day form or whims, at worst.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-259	Mr President, I would like to I and a few others have received some criticism today, one might call it, because we paint a gloomy picture of Sweden. You may find it sad that you are sometimes forced to do so. One might think that it will slow down the atmosphere in the Chamber. It's boring, and I'm sorry if I've hurt someone for doing it. However, it is a fact that there is much that is a problem. Then, as responsible political representatives of the people who live in this country, one must dare to point out all the problems that exist and not just make the situation look good. Not only can you say that everything is peace and joy and points to the excellence of your own politics, but you must be able to point out what is really bad. I do, and if it creates a bad mood, I'm really sorry about that. However, there are bright points, Mr President, and I was into them. We are now seeing a situation throughout our part of the world, both in Europe and in North America, where people from reality – ordinary people – rise against the dominance of the left-wing liberal establishment that has existed for decades and in various ways has destroyed our society. We see a rising where we have the opportunity to settle up with flume and calllessness, settle up with division and segregation and instead start to return to a cohesive society. We are beginning to return to a situation where we can cooperate with each other rather than force each other to become the same. It is a society in which one does one's duty and then demands one's right. It is the society I am striving for, and I hope that is what will emerge in 2017.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-263	Mr President, I would like to Åkesson shouldn't have to apologize for a gloomy picture. There are many concerns to be taken seriously here. The only question is how we use the political leadership so that people's concerns can actually change over to belief in the future. That's what it's all about. Now we have changed direction, from tax cuts and cuts to spending on welfare, jobs, school and housing. That is the difference, and we shall continue to do so. I would like to read out a list of proposed cuts. It's all about
i-6f7906a360d2f467-268	I have a very simple question to Jimmie Åkesson: Do you recognize these cuts?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-269	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I did a little bit of this by constantly highlighting the excellence of my own policy. Before I took office, everything was really bad – everything went in the wrong direction – but now I, Stefan Löfven, have taken office as Prime Minister. Then everything goes in the right direction. ..................................................... That's not true. It's not like that. It's at least as bad now as it was with the previous government, almost everything. Unemployment is slightly lower – yes. But we are in a boom, and that is nothing to Stefan Lövven's credit. On the contrary, every labour market policy measure and job reform implemented by Stefan Löfven has been a complete failure. Stefan Löfven has not succeeded in anything. Stefan Löfven has not been able to increase security in Swedish society – on the contrary, insecurity is spreading. Stefan Löfven has not succeeded in strengthening and developing the welfare of Swedish society – on the contrary, welfare is more strained than ever. Stefan Löfven has not managed to reverse the development of the police – on the contrary, the situation of the police is more strained than ever. Stefan Löfven has not succeeded, Mr President.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-273	Mr President, I would like to Unemployment is falling and employment is rising. We still have a lot to do, but we are moving in the right direction. We obviously have a prime minister who's very lucky. Stick to such a prime minister, Jimmie Åkesson! The cuts I listed, which Jimmie Åkesson did not seem to want to comment on, are the Moderates' proposals. It is the Moderates who want to implement the cuts I mentioned, and these are exactly the same cuts that the Swedish Democrats have voted in favour of. However, Jimmie Åkesson has no approach to this. It is if these cuts are said by the Swedish democrats that we want to vote in favour of, as long as we get a small part of the power bar. ..................................................... It is a betrayal of Sweden's employees, of those who have the most difficulty and of the cohesion of our society. There are the Swedish Democrats. Now let the Swedish people know that the party leader of the Swedish Democrats does not even know what cuts he supports! It's a shame.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-276	Mr President, I would like to I represent first and foremost my own policy. Unfortunately, we have not succeeded in getting majority support for this policy in this House. I regret this, because this policy had really turned things in the right direction. Unfortunately, however, only we have understood that. When your own policy is not supported, you still have to shoulder your responsibilities. I believe that my responsibility, Mr President, is to remove this government, because it has not succeeded in anything – nothing at all. In the choice between two evils, I choose what is least evil, and in this case that is how we have voted in this House. Mr President, I would like to My starting point is that Stefan Löfven must disappear as Swedish Prime Minister. I will do everything I can during the continuation of this term of office and in the electoral movement that comes to make this a reality. That is my starting point.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-279	Mr President, I would like to At the People's and Defence National Conference in Sälen recently there was a lot of talk about the increasingly aggressive Russian action. This includes attempts – and risks – to influence information and policy here too. The head of the NATO Strategic Communications Centre was there, and the Swedish Civil Protection Agency says that Russia has increased its ability to do something to Sweden should a need arise. Should we end up in some kind of dispute where it becomes important to influence Swedish decision-makers or public opinion. Then we must be prepared that they have a well-established ability to act against us. "That's what the Swedish Civil Protection Agency said just recently." I think it was yesterday. The FRA says that 10,000 activities from state foreign attackers can hit Swedish targets in a typical month. What responsibility does Jimmie Åkesson have to keep this from Swedish politics?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-282	Mr President, I would like to I have exactly the same responsibilities as Anna Kinberg Batra and the rest of this House. The difference is that we have taken this threat seriously for a decade, while the government that Anna Kinberg Batra supported for eight years and the government that we have today has not taken it seriously. It is only in the last year that it has been understood at all that there is Russian aggression and that there is a potential military threat in our immediate vicinity. For 25 years the defense has been used as a kind of dairy cow to finance other activities. I've taken on my responsibilities. I am pleased that the other parties are finally beginning to put defence and security policy high on the agenda and understand that this is about our security and security and that this is something long-term that must be allowed to cost money. I welcome that debate.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-285	Mr President, I would like to It is not surprising that Jimmie Åkesson wants to hold the debate to Sweden. But let us look at the American presidential elections, where the authorities have now shown that there were attempts to influence Russia. We know that this is happening, from other states in other states. We're approaching the French presidential election. Marine Le Pen, with clear links to Russia, has spoken out about its good relationship with Jimmie Åkesson. This risks being the next attempt to influence an election movement. In the European Parliament, the members of the Swedish Democrats have repeatedly associated with Putin-friendly forces, and it is difficult for the Swedish Democrats to explain what this looks like and what it leads to. This must be taken seriously, but I wonder whether the leadership of the Swedish Democrats is doing so. How can it be that it happens time and again just the Swedish Democrats that security risks come into the parliament and are at risk of being affected from outside before a Swedish election movement? How does Jimmie Åkesson keep this away?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-289	Mr President, I would like to It is difficult to have a discussion when the other party does not stick to the truth. There will be no very fruitful discussion when the opponent exaggerates and makes things up. What Anna Kinberg Batra talks about is simply not true. I just stood here and said that for a decade we have been pointing out precisely the threat from Russia. For a decade we have done this. Anna Kinberg Batra has not done this, but it is only now that it has become mediated that Anna Kinberg Batra thinks it is important to talk about the Russian threat and the potential threat that exists in our immediate vicinity. I think it is great that the other parties in this House have begun to understand that there is such a threat, but do not pretend that you have seen this all the time, because you have not! We're the only ones who did it. We're the only ones who've seen this threat all along.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-292	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday, the Swedish Democrats were out threatening SMHI with a reduced budget if they do not stop their propaganda about the climate threat. This is how the parliamentary branch of the Swedish extreme right tries to frighten Swedish authorities from carrying out their task. When the Swedish Democrats voted against the Paris Agreement in this House, the party's climate figure said that there is no correlation between carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and global warming. On the question of whether this does not make the Swedish Democrats climate change sceptics, the answer was that it is rather the other parties that are alarmists – the Swedish Democrats are in the middle. In between what? Between the UN climate panel, SMHI and Kent Ekeroth's Twitter account? In the middle of research and fantasy? For the record, Jimmie Åkesson : Do the Swedish Democrats trust the scientists in the UN climate panel, or do you ignore the climate threat?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-296	Mr President, I would like to Gustav Fridolin has lived on this issue throughout his political career. He has become a politician and even a minister in the Swedish government because of environmental policy, especially the climate issue. For me, it is quite incomprehensible how it has been done. The only thing that the Green Party has actually succeeded in is to destroy the structures that exist in Swedish society for climate-neutral electricity production. We already have such a production-- why would you break it? I think this underlines the conflict that exists in this debate. I do not deny that climate change is taking place. I do not deny that carbon dioxide affects the climate– I have never done this and will never do it. On the other hand, I deny the effectiveness of the policy pursued in Sweden in relation to the development of the global climate. The policy of Gustav Fridolin, which affects people in Sweden, does not affect the global climate at all. It's inefficient. This is bad policy.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-300	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson says we should get some other country to fix the climate – it's not effective that we do it. It's not without wondering what it looks like in Sölvesborg's parks. Jimmie Åkesson seems to think it's okay to throw a candy paper in the park if someone else has thrown a disposable grill. It doesn't work that way. If it's going to be clean in the park, everyone has to stop throwing garbage. It's exactly the same with the climate threat. If we are to face the climate threat, all countries must reduce their emissions. Everyone has to do their part. It is true that climate policy is affecting. The lack of climate policy means that people can leave their homes because of natural disasters and that people are forced to leave land that can no longer be used. Drought and scarcity of resources cause states to collapse and wars to erupt. I understand that the Swedish Democrats do not want refugees to come to Sweden. Do you think there will be more or fewer refugees if we do not face the climate threat in time?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-305	Mr President, I would like to I think Gustav Fridolin is missing what I said. The policy pursued by Gustav Fridolin, and the policy pursued by the majority in the Swedish Parliament, give Poland and Bulgaria a free pass to continue with their emissions. This is exactly what is happening. This is the practical effect of the policy pursued by Gustav Fridolin and the other parties in this Assembly. I think this is wrong. I do not understand why people in the Swedish countryside should pay for Poland and Bulgaria to continue their emissions. For me, this is a completely incomprehensible policy. I do not mean that other countries can fix the climate issue. This is, of course, an issue in which we must cooperate. This is an excellent example of an issue in which we need to cooperate globally. But to make it difficult for people living in the Swedish countryside to save the climate globally is bad politics, and Gustav Fridolin has unfortunately not understood that.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-309	Mr President, I would like to My family, like most other families, has a smoke detector, we have locks on our door to keep unwelcome guests away, we have home insurance and we also have good contact with our neighbors – this to make our lives much safer and safer. The same principle applies to Sweden. As political leaders, we have a responsibility for the security of the whole country, and cooperation with our neighbours is needed to achieve this. In spite of an increasingly worrying environment, Sweden's democrats are taking a different path. They are consistently on the side of Putin in the European Parliament. They invited to a party at Grand H ô tel with Putin friendly guests on the invitation list. And yes, Jimmie Åkesson, this is the truth: It is obvious which company Jimmie Åkesson chooses to hang out with. The Swedish Democrats want Sweden to leave the EU and have been pushing for this for several years, despite the fact that cooperation is crucial for combating organised crime and terrorism.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-313	Mr President, I would like to Russian roulette. It's really funny. I was going to say it myself, but now you stole it from me, and it was boring. But my view is that it is not me who plays Russian roulette, but it is the other parties here that have done it for more than 25 years, unfortunately. We have been completely laughed at, who have pointed out that there has been a potential military threat to Sweden or at least to our neighbouring countries. It has not been taken seriously at all, but instead spent 25 years more or less slaughtering the Swedish defence. And Annie Lööf hasn't said anything about this until maybe in the last year. It is good, once again, that the rest of the parties have begun to gain insight. But stop throwing dirt at me because for 25 years you have underestimated the threat from the East, because you are the ones who have been wrong, not me!
i-6f7906a360d2f467-315	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson once again ducks for the core question of the reasoning that I am pursuing. We clearly have very different views on the importance of cooperation for our security. Jimmie Åkesson does not see the great paradox of modern security policy: that our independence requires cooperation, that we are dependent on others in order to assert our independence and that our freedom is the result of a community. If Sweden stops cooperating with the outside world, other countries will have more influence over Sweden and Sweden's security. And it is a fact that only a few months ago Jimmie Åkesson obviously invited Putin-friendly politicians to Sweden to flirt and socialize with them. It is fact and truth, Jimmie Åkesson, that you support Mr Putin's line in the European Parliament. So I ask Jimmie Åkesson again: Why does he think that alone is strong? Why should we leave the EU? Why do the Swedish Democrats not protect Sweden's security? Sweden's security is being built together with others.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-319	Mr President, I would like to We cooperate very much with other countries in our neighbourhood and in other parts of the world. Sweden has actually been very good at all the years that Sweden has existed as an independent state, and I think that we should continue to be. It is the issue of independence that is fundamental. Annie Lööf says that if we are not in the EU, if we are not in NATO and so on, other countries will have a greater influence on Swedish politics and developments in Sweden. But, my dear, what has the EU meant? Does the EU not mean that other countries' politicians, people whom we cannot choose or dismiss, have had a disproportionate influence on the development of Sweden and Swedish legislation? That is exactly what has happened as a result of our cooperation, as Annie Lööf puts it. I don't call it cooperation. For me, cooperation is something that takes place mutually and on equal terms. The EU or NATO will never be that kind of cooperation for me.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-321	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats have been lukewarm to many forces in society, but I still have to get attached to vendetta with Sweden's meteorologists and the attack on SMHI. It is a little surprising that they are the target, but I understand that the problem lies in SMHI researching and spreading research on climate change. I have two very specific questions for Jimmie Åkesson. The first is: Can you give an example of SMHI spreading something that is wrong? After all, that must be the basis for such a drastic attack on the meteorologists. Now I wasn't thinking about the weather. I was thinking about the climate. Just so you know. The second is: Which other authorities do you want to shut down that say things that do not suit your world view? Are there any others that you think should be closed down, scientific institutions and authorities that say things that do not please the Swedish Democrats?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-325	Mr President, I would like to I have a little difficulty concentrating, because I think that SMHI is very often wrong – it's like their characteristics in some way. But, yes, it was perhaps not the weather Jonas Sjöstedt was referring to here. This is a reduction of EUR 13 million on the basis of an increase in funding received over the last few years. I mean, it's pretty undramatic. This is about a few percent, I think, of the total budget. When Jonas Sjöstedt says that we want to shut down SMHI, it is just nonsense, because that is not the case. What it is all about is that we assess that we can make operations more efficient. It's not more dramatic than that. Then I do not think it is unreasonable in any way that we reform authorities if they in different ways counteract the cohesion of Swedish society and in different ways destroy Swedish society. Now I do not mean that SMHI does, but there could certainly be examples of such. For example, we should remove the chief of police.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-328	Mr President, I would like to But now it is, Jimmie Åkesson, and you know that too, that the argument for cutting down SMHI's funding is that they inform about scientific facts about the climate. And you can't give a single example of SMHI saying something wrong about climate change. That means it's the hocus pocus you're doing. You have no basis for what you say; it is politics. You want to silence science, facts and knowledge that do not suit your political worldview, and I mean that is serious. Look out across Europe, Poland, Hungary and other countries, and see what happens in a society when a government gives itself the right to silence voices that do not fit its political agenda! That is why the question is very serious. Is there any more voice that you think should not be heard as loudly or that should be silenced because it does not suit your political beliefs? There's something else, Jimmie Åkesson, something quite serious.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-332	Mr President, I would like to I have to say, I'm having a bit of a hard time taking this seriously. 13 million more or less to SMHI is compared to, at least according to Jonas Sjöstedt's opinion, authoritarian regimes, semi-democrats and young democracies that have not really developed yet and that govern public services, the media and so on. Surely there must be some reasonableness in the argument, Jonas Sjöstedt. I am absolutely convinced that SMHI can streamline its operations and carry out its mission without the 13 million. Jonas Sjöstedt believes that these are indisputable facts. But these are regional estimates and forecasts, which Jonas Sjöstedt knows is very uncertain and should not be presented as indisputable facts in any way. These are certainly interesting contributions to the debate, but do not say that they are indisputable facts!
i-6f7906a360d2f467-335	Mr President, I would like to I, too, have read the draft budget of the Swedish Democrats, which Jimmie Åkesson has voted in favour of. You are proposing a very drastic cut in what is called the LSS, the disability reform. I would like to say that this reform, which took place in the 1990s, is one of the most important freedom reforms in our country in modern times. It does not in any way affect the majority of the Swedish people, but for 16 000 people it is the difference between a dignified life and an unworthy life. Prior to the reform, people with extensive disabilities were allowed to live in institutions. Children were taken from parents and put in an institution. That is why this reform was created. After all, the government tried to make cuts, but when it realized how far the consequences were, not least for children, it backed up in December. But you do not see any problem with this; you are proposing a multi-billion-dollar saving. My question to Jimmie Åkesson is: Why do you choose to make your cuts for the most vulnerable people in society?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-338	Mr President, I would like to I don't know the number in my head. But as I understand it, the reduction that Jan Björklund refers to is the effect of a calculation of a reduced need, as we get fewer people with needs as a result of our immigration policy. That's the cutback there is. I share Jan Björklund's view. Since my early teens, I have lived with LSS in my own home and grew up with it as a result of a close relative who has great needs. I know what that means and what it would mean if it were to change in any way, as has unfortunately happened in recent years. Jan Björklund can therefore be confident that I will not contribute to any deterioration in this respect.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-340	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson says that I can be sure that he will not contribute to a deterioration of LSS, but I have the voting protocol here in my hand. Jimmie Åkesson voted in favour of a deterioration of the LSS as late as December. It says here that Jimmie Åkesson wants to save SEK 2 billion. For me, it is incomprehensible how this could be done by reducing immigration from 1 January onwards. So this reduction would have started a few weeks ago. Of course there's gonna be a cutback. If Jimmie Åkesson has a personal experience of this, I do not understand why he is putting forward and voting in favour of such a proposal. Jimmie Åkesson has the opportunity to say here and now that the Swedish Democrats withdraw and no longer stand for this. It is absolutely impossible to achieve a saving in the reduction of immigration from 1 January when we have today 11 January. I don't know what he means.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-342	Mr President, I would like to No, it is possible that Jan Björklund does not understand how we mean, but then he will have access to the basis of the calculation that forms the basis of the proposal. Of course, there is one. It is not that we are making this up or taking it out of thin air, but there is a basis for calculations that show that this is entirely reasonable. That is my starting point, and I trust it. I repeat that I will not contribute to any deterioration of the LSS in any way. I will never contribute to that. Jan Björklund can feel very safe with that.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-344	Mr President, I would like to The security policy situation in our surrounding world has changed and deteriorated significantly in recent years. It is above all Islamist terrorism and Russia's armament and aggression that have changed the picture. IS is the biggest terrorist threat to Sweden. In the social debate, I have seen and heard Jimmie Åkesson reject and condemn Islamic terrorism. But Russia is the greatest military threat to Sweden, and in that debate I have not noticed by Jimmie Åkesson very much, although in this debate he says that the Swedish Democrats have been highlighting this for a long time. My questions to Jimmie Åkesson are: Do you agree with the assessment that Russia represents the greatest military threat to Sweden? If so, what conclusions do you draw from this?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-347	Mr President, I would like to In at least two previous shifts, I have highlighted the issue and explained that I think you should be careful about how you express yourself. I think that we in this House should be careful to say that Russia represents the greatest military threat. At least I wouldn't put it that way. I'd rather say it's the greatest potential threat. It is perhaps not primarily a threat to Sweden but to other states in our immediate vicinity. We have seen examples of this. I still think we should be careful how we express ourselves. But yes, both I and my party friends have been pointing that out for decades. We have raised it in several party leaders' debates. And when we have argued for why we, as the only party, have wanted to increase defence appropriations in every year that we have been in Parliament, you, Andreas Carlson, have laughed at us and said that there is no threat. Your friends in the Alliance have said that Russia is more democratic today and that there is no problem.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-350	Mr President, I would like to We raised this and problematized in the Swedish Parliament's chamber already at the beginning of the 2000s, so breast tones from Jimmie Åkesson do not feel serious. It doesn't feel like his proposal to strengthen the defense either. It is clear that we are also behind a policy of strengthening defence capacity in the near future. But we in the Christian Democrats also realise that alone is not strong. We see that we need to work together with like-minded countries, and in this respect we have come to the conclusion that the most effective tool to prevent Russian aggression and that we can continue to work for democracy and freedom in our neighbourhood is to join NATO. Cooperation with NATO countries is an effective tool to safeguard Sweden's security and security in our neighbourhood. My question to Jimmie Åkesson is: why are you, when you draw that conclusion, against NATO membership?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-353	Mr President, I would like to Although Andreas Carlson says that since the beginning of the 21st century this has been seen and talked about, it has at least not been reflected in the policy that has been pursued. It did not happen during the eight years of government and hardly before or after that either. Perhaps the way in which you talk about these issues has changed somewhat, which I think is good and welcome. As far as NATO membership is concerned, the assessment made by Andreas Carlson and the other bourgeoisie of this Assembly can be made. I think that a different assessment can also be made with credibility and justification: it would not reasonably increase security in our part of the world. However, I do not know whether there is anyone here who is opposed to cooperating with other countries on security and defence policy. We are already doing that today. We are involved in the partnership and in the European Union. You can think what you want about it, but we're there. Cooperation already exists, and it has been a good thing. I think that we should strengthen cooperation and, above all, cooperation with Finland.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-356	Mr President, I would like to It's serious now. When autumn came, the ice sheet did not want to lie down as usual in the Arctic. The oceans have become warmer and eat the ice from below. A few days before Christmas there was almost zero in the air – at the North Pole! In June, the first mammal to have been eradicated due to climate change was reported. Natural disasters are getting worse. Serious drought strikes more often. This intervenes in all policies. A sustainable economy depends entirely on our success in reversing the emission curves. Future exports will depend on whether we or others find the solutions. The whole world has to change. As always, security policy is determined by the allocation of resources. To those of you who have been elected here because you do not like that Sweden helps people on the run: It is the climate that should worry you. If we do not reverse developments in time, people will be forced to flee on a scale the world has not seen before, with droughts, natural disasters, states falling apart and wars breaking out. The world is screaming for leadership. Sweden can show that there is a better society beyond wear and tear with the growth of ideas rather than waste, with recycling rather than resource consumption and with an economy that is not based on us constantly picking more and more out of the earth's crust and replenishing the stores with more gadgets. With fast trains, broadband across the country, green cities and living countryside, Sweden can lead the way. That is why it is so difficult to understand why we still have to argue about every environmental investment and every instrument. Several parties want to stop the fast trains. All opposition parties cut by more than 25 per cent in the environmental budget. You say no to air transport bearing its own environmental costs and no to shifting heavy goods transport from truck to shipping and rail. One question hangs over this debate, Anna Kinberg Batra, Jimmie Åkesson, Annie Lööf, Jan Björklund and Andreas Carlson. How much warmer will the Arctic need to be before you take the climate threat seriously?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-361	Mr President, I would like to It's serious now, says Gustav Fridolin. It's about the climate. This also applies to security and defence. In the last few days and today, I and many people have taken up the importance of strengthening the defense, and then the Prime Minister calls Bingo! .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. One might think that this is a somewhat unexpected response from a serious party leader. He chooses not to be, so I turn instead to the leader of the other government party. Sweden actually has two. When we proposed a reinforcement already this year, the Green Party's defence spokesperson said that we have a deteriorating security policy situation, and he felt that the Moderates' arguments were relevant. I would like to ask the leaders of the Green Party in this debate: with how much are you prepared to strengthen the defence already this year, and how does the Green Party intend to assume its responsibilities in the Swedish Government so that we quickly improve our capabilities? It's serious now.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-364	Mr President, I would like to The answer to the question is defence preparation. True, there is relevance to the arguments put forward by the Moderates and others here. That's why we need a defence preparation. But it's gonna be a little weird. The Moderates have called for a defense preparation, and so we set it up. But before it has even begun to prepare, the moderate partisan office has already prepared on the island how much money is needed. It won't be serious. We will sit there and see what it costs to increase the Swedish defence capability in the way that is needed. Then I have to say that the most important issue of security policy in the future is the climate threat. Russia's power grows out of the oil and gas taps. It is the issue of resources that gives us the security policy situation that we get. If we do not stop climate change in time, we will see more conflicts and more wars breaking out. On this most important issue of security policy, our opposition leader lacks a full answer.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-367	Mr President, I would like to Yes, if the government had acted more quickly against the new Russian gas pipeline, it would have been important from both a security and climate policy perspective. I hope it's not too late to do it now. Gustav Fridolin is wrong about the Defense Committee. The reason I wanted it to be called in last year was that it would prepare the next defence decision – for the period after 2020 – as early, as well and as broad as possible. It is important, and I still believe that this must get started as soon as possible. But 2020 is quite a long way to go, Gustav Fridolin. My question and my suggestions relate to how, now that the world situation is deteriorating drastically, we can strengthen our capabilities as soon as possible – in addition to the reinforcement of the defence that we Moderates pushed forward last year – with more training hours and better opportunities for equipment and ammunition, for example. The aim is for the defense to be able to do what it needs to do now that the international situation is deteriorating. Otherwise you get a very bad climate and a very bad social climate.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-370	Mr President, I would like to Politics is funny sometimes. The bourgeois government allowed and made possible the laying of a gas pipeline at the bottom of the Baltic Sea, despite the difficult security policy consequences of the gas pipeline being linked to a Russian state gas company. Now the company wants to add another management next to the old management. Our chances of dealing with it are small, because there is already a leadership that the bourgeois government had put there. But then it's suddenly politics for a moderate. It is about the same when you call for money just when the Parliament has decided on the defence budget. In the December decision, the Moderates did not vote for a single additional crown for the defense. The argument doesn't hold. This is not serious, Anna Kinberg Batra. I understand that it is annoying that the bourgeois government did not invest in defence but that we, with environmentalists in the government, actually listen to the world situation and make the necessary priorities. But for a serious argument!
i-6f7906a360d2f467-372	Mr President, I would like to Camilla Lindgren and Tuula Torro run Preschool Bränningevägen. It is a small preschool with small groups of children who have focused on the importance of language for children's development. Camilla and Tuula were previously employees within the municipality, but five years ago they dared to take the step and invest in their dream: to help preschool children get the best possible start. They don't have big margins. It is not a big business, and they have no venture capitalists in their backs. They have invested their commitment, their time, their own money and their drive to create quality and contribute to their freedom of choice and thus their welfare. If Ilmar Reepalus's investigation becomes a reality, Camilla and Tuula believe that they have no opportunity to continue their preschool. They themselves suffer. Their suppliers of food and services are affected. Above all, however, children are affected, and staff and families are being squeezed.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-375	Mr President, I would like to No, but I am very pleased that we have a regulatory framework that guarantees that the parents and entrepreneurs Annie Lööf is talking about can feel confident that whoever gets our most important welfare mission, to run preschool or school, has also promised that the tax money that comes into the business will benefit the children. I do not want us to have to read again about a preschool that gives the children water and bread to save money and then make a profit. Sure, that's an exception. The vast majority of independent preschools are very serious and work just as Annie Lööf describes. But then give them the certainty that we have a serious regulatory framework for everyone, so that parents can safely choose independent preschools! It is such a regulatory framework that we are now preparing. It should be well prepared, and then it should be presented to the Swedish parliament.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-378	Mr President, I would like to Gustav Fridolin seems to turn a blind eye to the obvious. It is clear that it should be the same quality requirements – higher ones – and sharper supervision for all. But that's not what's on the government's table. Mr Reepalus's proposal will not only restrict freedom of choice. It will also force well-functioning, high-quality and popular activities to close down. That is what the proposal actually means. These are also the signals that leading politicians send. It is just to pack up, as Jonas Sjöstedt puts it, if the proposal that is now before us goes through. Small entrepreneurs, often women, offer high quality in pre-school activities. But this seems to have no place in Gustav Fridolin's Sweden, which is distressing, not least when representing a so-called feminist government. Why doesn't the Green Party want to fight for preschools like Bränningevägen? Why does the Green Party want to close these preschools? That is actually the consequence, according to the founder and owner of this small preschool.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-381	Mr President, I would like to Now we are talking about political priorities. Then it is important to know that this government prioritises preschool. During the previous government, children's groups grew in preschool. You abolished the regulations that existed for the size of children's groups, Annie Lööf – precisely those quality requirements that you are talking about. And the largest groups of children grew. We have re-established a research-based benchmark for the size of children's groups. We allocate government funds to help municipal and independent authorities to reduce the size of children's groups. And finally, the trend has been broken, so that we can start looking forward to smaller groups of children in preschool. These are quality requirements. We fight for preschool, for both independent and municipal preschools. The regulatory framework presented to the Riksdag must be such that it ensures that the tax money reaches the business and the children and is good for serious actors. Let me conclude by noting that Annie Lööf has now used 26 of the 30 minutes she has spent in this party leader debate but that I have not heard a single argument about the climate.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-385	Mr President, I would like to Gustav Fridolin! Tomorrow, the European Parliament's Environment Committee will vote on CETA, an investment agreement between the EU and Canada. The Green Rapporteur recommends voting against, as probably does the Environment Committee. I hope that the members of the Green Party will also vote 'no'. I have good hope for that. There are strong environmental reasons to say no to CETA. A recent example concerns the mining group Gabriel Resources from Canada. Canada is a world power in the mineral industry. The Group has wanted to conduct a very controversial mining project in Roșia Montană, Romania. The project threatens to devastate an entire area. Huge amounts of cyanide should be used. Romania has said no for environmental reasons. But now Gabriel Resources wants to take Romania to court. The Group wants $4 billion in compensation, which corresponds to half of Romania's health budget, because Romania puts the environment ahead of Gabriel Resource's profit. CETA gives companies just this power. Companies can sue states that reduce their profits. Why are you in the government to give companies that power?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-388	Mr President, I would like to It is good that Jonas Sjöstedt highlights this issue. These deals are hard. Free trade is a good thing, and free trade regulations are a good thing, but the rules must be such that they guarantee countries the possibility of taking precedence over the environment, health and animal welfare. That's the government's position. The environmental movement has been very important to ensure that an agreement that does not meet these requirements does not become a reality either. This is the work that is being carried on by green parties in different countries. In the European Parliament, we work in the Green Group. In Sweden, we work in the government. The government took a clear stand against outdated dispute resolution mechanisms, pushed forward better positions in international agreement negotiations and succeeded in doing so. If you run those positions as a government and succeed, it will be very difficult to say: That went the way, but we will still say no. It kind of doesn't work. You have to work in different ways and in different places. In the government, we ensure that the agreement is as good as possible.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-390	Mr President, I would like to The thing is that you have not succeeded, Gustav Fridolin. Investment protection is still in place. You are expanding the opportunity for companies like Gabriel Resources to sue Romania and Sweden if we reduce their profits by protecting the environment. That is exactly why your colleagues in Brussels will vote against this agreement tomorrow. And it is not different agreements in Brussels and Stockholm, but it is the same agreement. When you in the government are in favour of investment protection, you increase the power of big business at the expense of democracy. Actually, that's what you're doing. It is not that investment protection has been removed. It is a director's court without democratic transparency over democratic decisions by national parliaments in the rule of law that do not need such a overcoat. You are doing this against the will of Green parliamentarians. You are doing this to your own Members of the European Parliament and to a united environmental movement. Why are you doing this?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-392	Mr President, I would like to I think this was a good line change. It shows very clearly one of many differences between the Green Party and the Left Party. First of all, the difference is that we think it's good that people deal with each other. We want them to do so in a way that can reduce the volume of transport and ensure that we jointly take steps forward for the environment and health in different countries. I believe that the Left Party stands for a different line many times. But there is also a difference in how we view politics. Politics is about making a difference. Does the Left Party think it is bad that Sweden has received a government that in the negotiations has pushed forward a different level of investment protection than the previous government stood for and that the government stands for an investment protection that is not to the fullest but that better guarantees countries' opportunities to take precedence? Obviously it does, for such work the Left Party has not wanted to be part of. You want to sit in this Chamber and in every situation think right but for a hundred years never ever get anything.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-396	Mr President, I would like to I wanted to give the Minister for Education an opportunity to say something about education in the debate. Eighty percent of the students feel that they work harder when they get grades. There are as many, 80 percent, who believe that they can improve their grades through increased effort. This is an evaluation that has been made in grade 6 after grades were introduced in grade 6, something that the Green Party voted against. A majority of the principals consider it easier to follow up the results. Teachers find it easier to identify students with difficulties. Isn't it time for the Green Party to abandon its resistance to grades, Gustav Fridolin?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-399	Mr President, I would like to No, we're not gonna twitch and tear down the grade system. One of the first jokes I heard when I entered a teacher's room once was: New government, new rating system. I think we are the first new government that has not introduced a new rating system, but that leaves it and focuses on what makes a difference. The evaluation that came yesterday showed that despite the new grades, students in need of help have not received it to a greater extent than before. It's no wonder. With Jan Björklund there were more grades but fewer special teachers. A grade does not sit next to the student and helps solve the riddle with a complicated equation. There's a teacher doing it. If you cut school, it'll be less time for the students. What we want to invest in now is to strengthen the special pedagogy skills. We are finally starting to get more special teachers in the Swedish school and have turned that curve. We will make sure that teachers have more time with their students and to give the right support to the students at the right time. That's our focus.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-402	Mr President, I would like to Gustav Fridolin says he doesn't want to tear down the grade system. It may help that it would never go through this Parliament, because here there is a compact majority for grades against the Green Party's basic position on this issue. Eighty percent of the students work harder. Does Gustav Fridolin not understand that this is an important reason why PISA results have turned around, that students work harder when they get grades? That is what has happened. It is precisely those students who have now done the PISA tests in the spring of 2015 who were the first students to receive previous grades, and suddenly it turns upwards. After decades of fluke school policy, it has turned upwards, and this reform is one of the more important explanations. The students work harder. I totally agree that we should have more special teachers. It was the Social Democrats who once abolished special teacher education. That is why that number has been falling for a long time. I'm the one who re-introduced the special teacher training. It is true that it is now increasing, but that is because we reinstated education. But special teachers are not enough. Most of the students will never get or need special teachers. The majority of students need incentives to learn things in school, namely grades.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-406	Mr President, I would like to I think it's fun that Jan Björklund can talk school again. It's been pretty quiet for a while. The Swedish PISA tests have shown a steady decline. I know that Jan Björklund very much wants to see this PISA test as the absolute best that has happened. It's good if it's a trend break. But we are at the levels that we perceived in 2009 as a national disaster, and inequality in the system is increasing. What growing up conditions our children come from at school are increasingly affecting what results they can get. I think you should slow down the victory story slightly and get to grips with that problem. It gets interesting when you say that 80 percent of the students think they can work harder because they have grades. It's 20% that's given up. Teachers testify that the grades of earlier ages make it even tougher for those students who were already having a tough time. They need more special teachers, not more letters.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-409	Mr President, I would like to I read in the newspaper yesterday, or if it was perhaps the day before yesterday, and was a little surprised when I saw that Gustav Fridolin said that the Green Party will become a party that is going to get tough on crime. It was in itself nice reading, but also a little surprising. I would like to ask Gustav Fridolin to tell him how he sees the Green Party becoming a party that prioritises law and order. Last autumn in the party leader debate, I stood here in the Chamber and held Gustav Fridolin's colleague Isabella Lövin to account for the Environmental Party's criminal policy and police efforts. The answer I received then was more about green society and climate policy than about how to get more men and women in blue uniforms, to get more people into the profession and, above all, to stay in the profession. I hope that Gustav Fridolin today will be able to give a little clearer information. Is Gustav Fridolin now in view of the new profile behind the Christian Democrats' proposal for more police officers?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-412	Mr President, I would like to The government is investing in the police. We have more employees in the Police Department than ever. At the end of last year, for example, we managed to hire around 600 new civilian employees so that the police have more time to be police officers. When environmentalist municipal councillors work hard to have good urban environments, it is just as much about ensuring that there are bike paths as ensuring that it is safe in the suburban centres. It is urban development at its core. One can be an environmental party and want to be as hard on environmental pollution as on crime. There are three proposals that are close to my area of government. Firstly, it is a matter of clearly starting to follow up on truancy so that we can detect guys on glide before the first crimes are committed. Secondly, it is a matter of ensuring that they are able to use house arrest and electronic anklet for young offenders to ensure that they are in school by day and at home in the evening. Thirdly, it is a matter of ensuring that the school can employ people who manage the connection with the blue light authorities.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-415	Mr President, I would like to The Commission's efforts on the police are behind the next elections. We Christian Democrats are investing in the police already in this year's budget. But okay, at least we've got an answer to that question. I was gonna ask you one more question. When we voted in this House to tighten the penalties for burglary, the Green Party voted against. Everyday crime, breaking and entering one's own home, is a concern, not least among many older people, whom I have highlighted earlier in the debate, and a concern in rural areas. It is about tightening the penalty for burglary, which is something that violates privacy terribly and makes many choose to move away from their own home because they no longer feel safe in their own home. The Green Party voted against this. We Christian Democrats, together with the Alliance, received an announcement. Has the Green Party now changed its mind on this issue so that we can get a penalty for burglary in homes to prioritise this type of crime even more? Has the Green Party changed its mind on this issue with the new profile?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-419	Mr President, I would like to The government is reviewing the scale of penalties in such a way that we can use the right coercive measures to find offenders. What I think provokes anyone who has been the victim of a burglary the most is that so few of them are cleared up. More people are being cleared up and more are being sentenced to punishment at all. It is also a question of ensuring that there are swift sanctions. It is equally important not least for young offenders that the penalty comes quickly. They will not be arrested, come out on the street and to the gang again, and then a year after being summoned to a trial. There is a need to speed up sanctions. It's a government focus. It is not true that our investments in the police force are behind the next elections. Then it would have been very difficult for the police to hire 600 new civilian employees by the end of the year. We have invested in the police now so that you can hire more so that the police have more opportunity to be police officers. The big challenge we have left is both about resources and to make sure that the new organization that we agreed on starts delivering. It hasn't done so far.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-423	Mr President, I would like to People who live outside the larger cities often feel that they live in forgotten Sweden. As grew up in the village of Maramö in Småland without either bus line, broadband or close purchase I know how they feel. These are other preconditions, and the national party leader debate should also be about them. It should be about the conditions that exist there, about rural areas, about the possibility of jobs and about entrepreneurship and development power throughout the country. In my first speech here this morning, I just highlighted jobs, entrepreneurship and development power throughout the country – in rural areas, in sparsely populated areas, in neighbourhoods and localities. It is the foundation for the whole of Sweden to live and develop that it invests in jobs, that it invests in small businesses, infrastructure and service. Another part that is important when we talk about the whole country is about security. Whether you live in a suburb or in sparsely populated areas, you should have the opportunity to feel just safe. Welfare is an important part of a sense of security. There should be a school that is good and of high quality, and it should be short care queues so that you get the care you need regardless of whether you live in Norrbotten, Skåne or Gothenburg. Another parameter when talking about security is about access to the police. The police should be able to get on the alarms about robberies coming. I visited the police in Kronoberg, who told me that they have not been able to call for robberies because they did not have enough resources. That is totally unacceptable. We need to act here. A third parameter when we talk about security throughout the country is, of course, about security. Sweden should be safe and secure, and we should have a strong defence whether in the north, in the south or around Mälardalen. It is about building Sweden safely by creating reforms for jobs and by creating reforms for security. I think 2017 will be brighter than 2016. Concerns must be turned to hope and dissatisfaction to belief in the future. We must face the dangerous populism with optimism. It requires a new leadership, and it requires the Alliance and the Center Party to show it.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-429	Mr President, I would like to As far as rural jobs are concerned, Annie Lööf will probably not rule with the Moderates, because then there will be fewer jobs in rural areas. It was during your reign. There were fewer government jobs in rural areas, and that was not good. Another issue on which there is uncertainty is migration policy. Annie Lööf asked me in her Christmas speech whether I am ashamed of the solidarity, openness and tolerance that the Social Democrats represent in migration policy. The answer is no. I'm not ashamed of it at all. We have always been responsible for regulated immigration, and we will continue to do so in the future. The measures we have taken with regard to border control, identity control and temporary law were absolutely necessary in an exceptional situation when 80 000 people applied for asylum in Sweden in two months and when we saw that the reception system was not working. Then all politicians will have to act responsibly – here in Sweden and in the EU. There are scattered messages from the bourgeoisie, so Annie Lööf should perhaps instead address her question to Anna Kinberg Batra. Your voters have a right to know now: Is it Anna Kinberg Batras or Annie Lööf's migration policy that applies?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-432	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question from the Prime Minister. Migration and integration issues are extremely important. In the autumn of 2015, the Center Party, together with the other alliance parties, participated in a broad cross-block agreement on migration with Stefan Lövven's party and the Environmental Party. I'm proud of that. But it was tough compromises from both sides. It meant that we agreed to a great deal of austerity. I am prepared to stand up for this compromise. After the compromise, however, the ink barely dried until the government made further austerity, including ensuring that children are not allowed to see their parents again. I would like to ask the same question that I asked in the Christmas speech here too: Isn't Stefan Löfven ashamed? Is he not ashamed of having introduced legislation at the bottom of the EU that means that young children, three- and four-year-olds, should not be able to see their mother and father again? I know the legislation is temporary. But as a political leader, one must stand up for fundamental values. I don't think it's humane to separate children from their parents.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-435	Mr President, I would like to The government has done what is necessary to deal with an exceptional situation. Annie Lööf knows that the vast majority of refugees came just at the end of autumn, and she should ask Anna Kinberg Batra the question. One must know what migration policy the bourgeoisie stands for. We stand up for the right of asylum. We also stand up for the measures that were absolutely necessary in a situation that was exceptional and where we were unable to accommodate all these people. We have never seen such a migration flow as what we saw in 2015. Then you can't act irresponsiblely. If you do that, you create shadow societies, and we do not want that in Sweden. But it's probably Annie Lööf willing to make sure we get it. We have different visions there. The question remains for the bourgeoisie, Annie Lööf : Is it the politics of Annie Lööf and the Center, or is it the politics of Anna Kinberg Batras and the Moderates that should apply? Which one is it?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-438	Mr President, I would like to I'll answer the question. It is neither the policy of the Center Party nor of the Moderates that becomes the policy of the Alliance, but it is a compromise between the two. That is how it works in a collaboration between different parties: It becomes a mixture of each party's politics. The foundation for this is to be seen in the migration agreement that the entire Alliance concluded with the government in autumn 2015. Other wordings of the Alliance in migration policy can be found in our budgets, which we present every autumn. There are common wordings on a responsible and humane migration policy. That is the basis for the negotiations that we are going to have for our election manifesto. What is important when talking about migration policy is that it is about order and order and about responsibility and action. But it is also about standing up for the right to be able to apply for asylum and the opportunity for children to be reunited with their mother and father. I'm prepared to fight for that. Order and order together with humanism is the way forward.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-441	Mr President, I would like to The Alliance allowed the parliamentary investigation service to look at how the development of exclusion has been in Sweden, i.e. how many areas we have where it is more common for adults to lack a job than for adults to have a job, where many children grow up under tough conditions and where there is a breeding ground for violence, crime, crime and gangs. The results of the investigation were disappointing. Between 2006 and 2014, i.e. the years that the Alliance ruled in government positions, Sweden gained 25 per cent more such alienation areas. More grew up in alienation than when the Center Party began its time in the government. I want to ask a question that I am convinced Annie Lööf has been thinking a lot about and may have a good answer to. What in your government's policy was it that made Sweden more alienated during your reign?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-443	Mr President, I would like to I'll answer that. Even during my time as Minister of Economic Affairs of the Alliance Government, I raised these very challenges. I spoke in several Almedals speeches just about how exclusion and unemployment are created in the mills, how people are forgotten and that we have to present reforms that lower the thresholds into the labour market. The Center Party proposed a number of reforms in both the labour market and labour law. It involved more apprenticeships but also reforms for entrepreneurship, because that is the basis for turning exclusion. We also presented reforms for a more close and accessible school. As you know, everything is not achieved in government; I believe that Gustav Fridolin is painfully aware of that. But we pushed, because we wanted to reduce exclusion along with our alliance colleagues. What I can nevertheless say is that over 300 000 jobs grew during the time of the Alliance. Two thirds of these were born abroad, of which I am very proud. Of course, much more could have been done.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-446	Mr President, I would like to I understood the answer as that there were more alienation areas during the time of the Alliance – the Alliance's own calculation in the parliamentary investigation service has shown – but if the Center Party had only got its entire policy through in the alliance government, that would not have happened. I don't think that's the case. I believe that this is essentially about economic policy. Lars Calmfors, Professor of Economics, just commented on the increasing inequality in Sweden. He notes that a significant proportion of the increase in inequality occurred after the financial crisis and the accession of the alliance government. These include the fact that you insured sick parents, that you froze maintenance support for divorced parents, that you lowered and deteriorated a checkout, that you directed the school's resources away from the schools that need it most, and that you parked the unemployed in phase 3. It is a policy of inequality. It is a policy that leads to segregation. That is the policy we are now trying to break.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-449	Mr President, I would like to No, I think I'm more humble than that. The reforms of the Center Party alone would not have helped; it is teamwork. I am happy to continue that teamwork together with my alliance colleagues. The basis for reducing gaps is about reforms for jobs and entrepreneurship. That's how you lift people from exclusion and into self-sufficiency, security and work. What is essential when you talk about this is precisely jobs. Here we can see that according to the government's own budget forecast, up to 1 million people in Sweden will live in exclusion within just a few years. The majority of them are particularly vulnerable and are even further away from the labour market. This shows that the recipe of the Social Democrats and the Green Party is completely at odds with what the Green Party and Gustav Fridolin are now saying in this debate. Reforms are needed for jobs and businesses and for the whole country to be invested in, and for regional and social disparities to be reduced. I am firmly committed to showing leadership so that we can reform Sweden further.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-452	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party often points out that it is a green party and that it has the best climate policy in the Alliance. It may seem a bit like being the best slalomer in Bangladesh, but it can certainly be that you have the best green policy on the bourgeois side. But if you look at your politics, I mean you can see it's not going to last. The basic idea of environmental policy is that the polluter should pay. It shouldn't be free to destroy the environment. But when it comes to flying, you want it to be free. When an ordinary person, say a nurse in Skellefteå, gets in the car to go to work, she pays taxes for every litre of gas that is consumed. But when a business traveler flies to New York, there's no tax on aviation fuel. This increases and destroys the environment and distorts competition between the environment and the environment. Why doesn't the Center Party want the polluter to pay? Why shouldn't aviation bear its environmental costs?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-455	Mr President, I would like to Now it is not only the Center Party that says that we have the best environmental policy, but also the Swedish people say so. According to Aftonbladet/ Inizio's measurement, 30 percent think that the Center Party has the best environmental policy. The left side is quite far down in that measurement. But we are not satisfied with this, because we want to implement our policies as well so that we have a real result for the environment and the climate. I'd like the plane to bear its environmental costs. I am happy to see increased costs of replacing the fuel on which aviation is going so that we get more biofuels, for example. However, I find it worrying that the investigation into the aviation tax which is now on the table says that emissions will move from air to car. Then we do not put the climate effect in focus. We need to focus on the climate effect, and that is why we need to have taxes that are effective. As the airline tax is now designed, it will only mean an increase in costs and that emissions will not be reduced. Emissions will be reduced corresponding to the emissions of working tools and gardening tools in Sweden. Then I think that the Left Party is more interested in introducing tax than in the fact that the tax has an effect.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-458	Mr President, I would like to I mean, this isn't gonna last. It is unreasonable to say that normal wage earners should estimate when they travel by car but that when he flies around the world Carl Bildt should not pay any tax on the fuel used by the aircraft. It is simply untenable for the climate to think that way when you see how incredibly much aviation is increasing. There is a solution to the dilemma that Annie Lööf points out, and it is to use the income from the taxation of aviation fuel or air tax to lower the prices of railways that are the most environmentally friendly. You can remove the return requirement for SJ and give SJ opportunities to invest in new trains and wagons and expand the night trains, for example. That is exactly what our proposal is about. A green tax shift could be called that, where those who fly really very much actually get to be involved in making the train cheaper. It should always be cheaper for grandma who is going from Gothenburg to Stockholm to take the train than the flight. When visiting the kids studying in Umeå, the train should be cheaper than the flight. That is not the case today, but it can happen if you dare to make the right decision. I regret that you are not prepared to do so in this case.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-461	Mr President, I would like to We're ready to make the right decision. The right decision means deciding on the measures that have an effect and lead to a better climate and reduced emissions. But when the investigator himself says that it will mean that emissions move from air to car, I mean that one is more interested in introducing a tax than having a tax that actually has an effect on the climate. I would like to see the aircraft bear its own costs. I can look at other forms of such taxes that can phase out fossil fuels and bring renewable biofuels in. I can also look at international systems to really ensure that flights bear their own costs. As far as the railways are concerned, the Center Party is investing more in railway maintenance over the next few years than the Left Party is doing in the government's budget. We think it is important to change Sweden and invest in infrastructure. Rail is an important part; trains are important. But we will not introduce taxes which have no effect and which do not produce results for the environment and the climate. If we find one, we will of course be behind it.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-464	Mr President, I would like to Members and listeners! We live in troubled times and in a troubled world. We have seen a very authoritarian development in Russia for a long time. In practice, the possibility of democratic opposition has ceased for large parts of Russian society. Russia has attacked neighbouring countries. Crimea has been annexed, and it has deliberately contributed to the removal of parts of eastern Ukraine. Russia is not a military threat to Sweden today, but it is clear that the situation is deteriorating the security situation in Europe and our surrounding world. We see other signs of concern. Turkey had a rather hopeful development a few years ago. Today we see that the country is moving towards dictatorship. We also see authoritarian tendencies in EU countries such as Poland and Hungary. The state of law is under threat. And we don't really know what it means with Trump yet, but probably it's very little good. In a situation like this, we need countries that stand up for human rights and for democracy, which claim common solutions on crucial international issues such as the refugee crisis and the climate threat and defend the Paris Agreement and the UNHCR. We need countries that can criticise abuse without loyalty regardless of who commits the abuse. Sweden's military alliance freedom is the best basis for such a policy. When we want to submit to NATO, it also means political loyalty, which I believe may weaken our ability to promote peace, disarmament and human rights in the world. Military alliance freedom requires its own defence capability. That is why it is a good thing that defence appropriations are increasing. The next step must be to introduce universal military service and an enhanced civil defence, but the defence must also use the money properly. Today, we have far less defence capacity for our funds than, for example, the Finnish taxpayers get, and it is actually course 1A to use the money correctly.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-470	Mr President, I would like to It is important that we have enough tax revenue to be able to invest in school so that people get knowledge and can build their own lives and contribute to the common. But of course there are good taxes and bad taxes. Good taxes are taxes that can help us to cope with pollution, for example. Bad taxes are taxes that hamper people's ability to build their lives. In 2004, we agreed with the Left Party to abolish inheritance tax, because it was a bad tax. The rich planned it out, but it hit families where someone died prematurely, and it hit companies in the green industry particularly hard – that is, the companies we need to have more of after the climate change. Now the Left Party repeatedly goes out and says: That inheritance tax that we abolished twelve years ago, we now want to reintroduce. Why, Jonas Sjöstedt? What was it you understood in 2004 that you do not understand now?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-473	Mr President, I would like to It is so, Gustav Fridolin, that 62 people in the world have as much wealth as half the world's population. That's completely unreasonable. They are a huge drain on earth's resources, they are one of the most segregated parts of society and they have great political power. If this development continues, we will have an ever smaller part, a microscopic part, of the world's population that has the majority of the world's wealth. It looks the same in Sweden. If you don't have a tax on wealth and the really big inheritances-- I don't care about taxing, for example, normal homeowners who have inherited the house-- this difference will only increase. It is socially unsustainable, it is democratically unsustainable and it is also ecologically unsustainable, because these people live far beyond what the planet can tolerate. I believe that we must all live in a sustainable way. It is really strange that it is the Green Party that defends Sweden's billionaires. Actually, that's the way it is. Because if you don't have tax on passive capital, their wealth grows. You're the billionaires' best friend today, Gustav Fridolin. It's tragic.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-477	Mr President, I would like to There are probably some billionaires who do not really agree, who may not find it fun to have to estimate for emissions or to estimate for all flights. But the inheritance tax was never paid by billionaires. The rich planned the inheritance tax off. It hit the farmer who wanted a generational change in his company. It hit a family where one of the parents died far too soon. That's why we took away the inheritance tax. When we did, the Left Party was led by Gudrun Schyman and Lars Bäckström. Then came Lars Ohly. Then suddenly all the treasure became great. As soon as a word contained the word treasure rose up like the red flag. That is precisely the tax we are going to have, and that tax, and that tax – no matter what harmful effects they have. ..................................................... I thought the Left Party was moving away from it, that one could look soberly at various suggestions and see which taxes are good and which are bad. We say yes to environmental taxes, but no to taxes that hamper entrepreneurship.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-482	Mr President, I would like to Tax has no intrinsic value. But tax is needed to finance good and well-functioning welfare. Today it is more profitable to have money than to work. We have higher taxes for pensioners than for those who have a job. It's a tax system rigged to suit the rich. We have a tax system that the bourgeois, sitting next to it, have rigged to suit the rich. When the Left Party wants it to be fairer, through lower taxes for the pensioner and by doing it better for the small businessman, you stand up and defend the billionaires, Gustav Fridolin. That is where we want inheritance and wealth to be taxed. Why should those who inherit billions, whom they have not worked together themselves, not pay a single crown in tax on those billions? That's completely unreasonable. Where has the Green Party been during the economic policy debate in recent years, where Picketty and everyone else show how incredibly distorted the wealth is distributed? A society must not only be ecologically sustainable; it must be socially sustainable too. Has the Green Party lost it?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-486	Mr President, I would like to For some children and young people, life is limited by oppression and threats. Around Sweden, young girls are at risk of being taken out of the country to be married or sexually stymied – based on a distorted and unacceptable argument about honorary culture. For me, it goes without saying that there is no place in our society for oppression of honour. We have to stand up for the kids. And we have to stand up for women's rights. For this reason, the Center Party has proposed, among other things, a protection law to protect girls and women from being taken out of the country to be married away or genitally stymied. The new proposal would allow the Court to decide that the victim should not leave the country. It is deeply remarkable that the whole Left Party cannot make a strong mark against crimes of honour and the violence suffered by many women and children. You get criticism from the right and left – mostly left – and also internally within the party for thus betraying the women of the suburbs. Is the Left Party ready to support a protection law that protects girls and women from being taken out of the country to be married away or sexually stymied?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-490	Mr President, I would like to I think Annie Lööf has quite little to teach the Left Party on those issues. It was we who pushed to criminalize marrying children at all. When this House voted on the ban on child marriage, we were the only party to vote in favour of a total ban on child marriage in Sweden. We still stand for that. The Center Party voted against it. We have pushed through major efforts on women's shelters. They are very important for combating this type of crime and oppression. We have, in this budget, achieved a special training effort in the judicial system aimed at precisely this. We're not happy. The problems are enormous. It is a disgusting oppression that must be fought in every part. But I'm not sure you have much to teach us about how to do that, Annie Lööf. Can further legislative changes be made? I haven't studied your bill. I'll be completely honest with you that I don't know what that means. I can't comment on that today. If we can make further legislative changes which are not only symbolic but which are of real importance in combating this type of crime, I am prepared to look at any constructive proposal.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-494	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Sjöstedt and the Left Party highlight their work against honour repression. It's praiseworthy. You've done a number of parts. However, I am not the only one who criticises you for your fear of taking the debate on these issues. The criticism is actually internal, comes from your own party, Jonas Sjöstedt. You have not been able to stand up for the most vulnerable children and women. You're betraying the women of the suburbs. I'm not the one who says that. Criticism comes from the left and internally. You have done a great deal of praise in this area. But you are not prepared to take the debate. I welcome Jonas Sjöstedt into the game. We need to be more. All parties need to stand up for children's and women's rights, both in Hudiksvall and in Husby. I ask the question again: are you prepared to look at our proposal to introduce a protection law that protects children and women from being, against their will, taken out of the country to be married away or genitally stymied?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-498	Mr President, I would like to I've already answered the question. I'm prepared to look at every proposal, including yours, Annie Lööf, that has real significance. I think we should do everything we can to fight this. I don't like your criticism. It is not concrete. You have nothing concrete to come up with, which we should have done differently or something wrong as we think. It's hugely sweeping. This is dishonest political debate. One of my best friends lived under oppression. She was almost beaten to death because of the culture of honor. I wrote a book about her life. It was never allowed to come out because she was afraid of it. For me, this is important. I'm never going to back down on these issues. Nor will I take false accusations that I would not take it seriously.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-502	Mr President, I would like to 31 percent of the women in Sweden feel so insecure that they sometimes choose not to go out, according to a survey presented by the Swedish Crime Prevention Council yesterday. That's a scary number. I think so, as the Director-General of the Crime Prevention Council said. Concerns are increasing mainly among older and younger women. The large and rapid increase, according to the Crime Prevention Council, is mainly due to increased concerns about sexual offences. It must be taken very seriously. We Christian Democrats want to tighten the penalties for sexual crimes. We believe that the asylum seeker convicted of sexual offences should be rejected and expelled. Anyone who commits violence on women's bodies also commits violence on the Swedish social contract. Are you, Jonas Sjöstedt, who represents a feminist party, prepared to tighten the penalties for sexual crimes when every third woman is worried about going out?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-506	Mr President, I would like to I think you have to do several things. The punishment is one thing. But there are other things that are even more important. The most serious thing is that most crimes are never prosecuted and that most crimes that are prosecuted never lead to a conviction. It is due to several different things, which are so complex that they cannot be solved by calling for more severe penalties in the Parliament's pulpit. We want a consent law and rules on negligence. It would broaden the concept of what is commonly called rape. This would make it easier to get convictions, and it would clarify the responsibility for what is happening. I am pleased that we have now brought parties across the political spectrum to do so. Let us get that legislation through! It's important. I also believe that we need to increase the police's knowledge of how to prosecute this kind of crime. They need to make good investigations and secure evidence in a good way. We've taken some steps. I agree that there are areas where the penalties themselves must be tightened up. For example, we will have an up-to-date debate about children being exploited and men watching it online. It is clear that the offence is far too minor today.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-511	Mr President, I would like to I have great sympathy for several of the proposals that Jonas Sjöstedt makes. We're behind them. We have pushed the issue of a consent law, we want a negligence act and we absolutely think that there should be more knowledge in the entire judicial system about these crimes. But we also think that it is an important signal that this type of gross violation of privacy should have a higher penalty value in the penalty scale. There would be a clear signal that these crimes should be given even greater priority. That is why we want the penalties for sexual offences to be increased and that it should lead to expulsion of asylum seekers who commit sexual offences. We believe that equality is worth defending. It must be defended on a broad front. But what I asked was the sexual crimes and the punishment scales. I agree with many of the other things that Jonas Sjöstedt has highlighted. But I would like a clear answer when it comes to the enforcement of sexual offences. Are Jonas Sjöstedt and the Left Party prepared to support it?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-514	Mr President, I would like to I believe that our policy has a much greater impact than yours in practice. That's the easiest thing there is to say that we should raise the penalty. The evidence that it has led to fewer crimes is very thin, if there are even any. The problems are essentially quite different, and I have explained them both in terms of amended legislation and in terms of the cases in which we think the penalty value for crime should be increased. After serious crimes you can be expelled from Sweden. It is good and reasonable, and it is important that this also works in practice. On the other hand, we think it is wrong to have different kinds of scales of penalties for different people depending on their background. You should have the same penalty scales for everyone who commits the same crime in Sweden. Expulsion is a sanction used and to be used where it is justified to do so. Historically, I believe, the Christian Democrats do not have much to say about gender equality. You've been standing on the brakes most of the time. It is we who have gassed and who have pushed issues, not least issues of women's oppression, about sexual rights and about combating sexual crimes against women in Sweden.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-517	Mr President, I would like to The economy is doing well, both in Sweden and in large parts of Western Europe. What is so incomprehensible is why the government does not use it to carry out more reforms. Stefan Löfven had an election promise that was the top of all other election promises, and that was that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. We objected that it is more important to measure employment, but Löfven said: No, it is the EU's lowest unemployment rate that applies. Okay, that was the election promise. So, what are we up to? The goal is for us to be one of 28 countries in the EU. When the Alliance took office in 2006, Sweden was 15th in the EU. Then we improved that position, despite the recession, to 12th place. Sweden was in 12th place when Löfven took office in 2014. 2015 and 2016 we remained in 12th place. The European Commission is now predicting that Sweden is sinking to 13th place in 2018. The majority of the time has passed, and Sweden has weakened its position. This electoral promise was superior, and Löfven said that no ministers can do anything unless they contribute to achieving the goal of the EU's lowest unemployment rate. The question that needs to be asked to Stefan Löfven is: When should we start climbing from 12th place on this list? Is the whole climb going to take place in the final year, 2020? And why is that important? Well, it's important because we now have an even bigger challenge with all the low-skilled new arrivals coming here. There is a need for action here, but you are sitting and rolling your thumbs. Every move you went to elections on-- trainee jobs and all that's called-- were all like fiascos. We and you in Sweden are lucky because there is a boom and momentum in the economy. But on the day of recession, you are very ill-equipped for it. Measures are now needed to cut the thresholds so that more people get jobs in Sweden.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-523	Mr President, I would like to Now it is another bourgeois party leader who says that the Prime Minister is lucky. During your time, unemployment, youth unemployment and long-term unemployment increased. In our time, unemployment, youth unemployment and long-term unemployment are falling. Is that true, or isn't it true? One thing we now need to invest in is school. We can see that the latest PISA measurement was a work victory for the school, for the teachers, for the students and for the principals. Let's hope this is a trend break. But we do not yet see any trend break for inequality in school. That is why we need to invest more in the fight against inequality, and that is why the Minister for Education and I are now presenting what we did today. The question is: Why, Jan Björklund, do you want to delete several of the investments that we are now making at an equal school to instead target tax cuts to the rich?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-527	Mr President, I would like to This is so silly of the Prime Minister. We had the deepest recession of 80 years– the Prime Minister seems to be smiling about it, but it was quite difficult years. The Prime Minister was then the union chairman and had to struggle with this. Despite the deep recession, we managed to improve Sweden's position from 15th place to 12th place when it comes to unemployment. But Löfven are now deteriorating Sweden's place ring – that's the truth. The European Commission is finding that we are falling. We would be the best in Europe, but now we are sinking. That's because you're not doing anything. You're leaning back. You're happy, you're full and you're rolling your thumbs. You must take steps to improve the situation in the long term. It is good that we are lucky with the business cycle, but one cannot just build on the tour in the long run. Reforms must also be implemented that work, even when there is a headwind.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-529	Mr President, I would like to I remember very well in 2008-2009 when, as President of IF Metall, I took note of the then bourgeois government and said: We must do something. You didn't do anything. About 80,000 industrial jobs disappeared. Thank you for that, Jan Björklund. What we are doing now is that we have changed direction. There is an end to tax cuts and cuts. Let's invest. We're investing in construction. When you build, it creates jobs and it becomes new homes. V i invests in infrastructure. We invest in the roads. We invest in school. We invest in elderly care and health care. All of this creates jobs. That is why, Jan Björklund, we can now point out that we have turned the line. We have a lot to do, but the direction has changed and it will continue. People are going to work, and we are going to ensure that we have the EU's lowest unemployment rate in 2020, yes.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-531	Mr President, I would like to You haven't turned the line. The boom has turned around, and that's good. It's just that when the economic cycle turns around again – because it will – we are very poorly equipped. Mr President, I would like to I don't know what Stefan Löfven is doing about school results. He may be glad they're rising, but Stefan Löfven should thank the Alliance government for that. It is our reforms that have turned things around. It was 30 years of social democratic flume policy that was lowering the Swedish school. Now it is turning upwards, but I am concerned that you are not sticking to this path, but are going back to a more flukey policy that is contained in the Green Party's programme. Make sure he doesn't go through with it!
i-6f7906a360d2f467-533	Mr President, I would like to Fifteen years ago Sweden had one of the most equal school systems in the world. Now most developed economies are better at levelling out children's growing-up conditions in school results than Sweden is. We are worse at ensuring that all children get a good school than most OECD countries are. For eight of the 15 years that have passed, Jan Björklund has been Minister of Education. We have met a few times to discuss various explanations that it has become this way, and I would like to focus today on one of them, namely how the financial crisis was managed. In Sweden, this crisis had to be borne by the municipalities. When you left the government, almost 10,000 fewer people worked in Swedish schools than when you took office. It's a bigger cut than what the reduction of the student litters justify. The teachers had less time with the students. It has hit the students most in need of the school. It's not the only explanation for the growing inequality, but don't you, Jan Björklund, think that the cuts in school are an explanation among several of the growing inequality?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-537	Mr President, I would like to I think that is a very small explanation. There are a number of decisive factors. The first and most important is that Sweden has received a lot of newly arrived students. It is clear that they do not speak Swedish immediately, and when they are included in the results they fall. That was an important reason for what you call increased divides. Immigrant students are often concentrated in certain schools. When you measure these against other schools, the gap increases the more new arrivals that come. It's no wonder. It does not lead to the conclusion that those schools are bad. But we need to work more with these students and those schools. Those students need more time in school. We have made proposals to extend compulsory schooling. You have voted against. We have made proposals to double the first teacher's salaries in these areas. You have voted against. We have added a number of additional proposals to which you have voted against. We need to do more for the immigrant students. The second is that the students themselves should take responsibility for their teaching. It has been devastating for the weak students. There is a need for teacher-led caeder education and study discipline in schools. It is important, above all, for the weak students. There's a big lesson for the Green Party.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-540	Mr President, I would like to What the OECD shows is that the increasing inequality in Sweden is not about the newly arrived students, on the contrary. Actually, we're getting a little better at meeting their needs. They are still lagging behind, but they are developing a little faster than the Swedish-born students. We are simply learning how to meet multilingualism, and that is a good thing. On the other hand, students are affected by how many books there are in their parents' bookshelf and whether they have peace and quiet at home so that they can read homework. This affects school results more today than 15 years ago. We are worse than most OECD countries at levelling out growing-up conditions that affect students' grades and results. That should scare Jan Björklund. You are proposing cuts to school in your budget. You want to cut back on the very money that goes to exactly the schools that you are talking about and that have the biggest challenges. In your draft budget, you want to remove collaboration where the state goes in and works with school development at those schools. I don't understand that. I don't understand how you can continue with tax cuts and school cuts when we have a growing inequality in school.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-544	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Education does not seem to have read the parliamentary motions. Our party proposes more money for the school is some other party and more than the government. We want to change the focus on the particular initiative you propose, Gustav Fridolin. We say: Lift teachers' salaries even more in the vulnerable schools and areas! Then we can recruit the best teachers. We believe that it is much more effective than these municipal collaboration projects, where the municipal councillors who have failed with Swedish schools will get even more money to play with. I don't believe it. We must also have more targeted measures for immigrant pupils. It is not only those who have arrived in the last year that is the challenge. In these residential areas, it may be second-generation immigrants who still have very low results. The OECD says it is not the new arrivals. I agree with that – it is not just them, it is the whole group of people who have come to Sweden and also the second generation. We need to work more with these schools, with higher demands, longer school hours and to attract the best teachers. That is what increased equality in school is about, not something else.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-548	Mr President, I would like to Jan Björklund! Sweden is lining up. We have depopulated a large part of the country. We have the impoverishment of basic public services. It is much more difficult to get access to much of what we take for granted in large parts of Sweden. That is why the Left Party initiated a rural inquiry, which started with an agreement that we made with the government. It recently put forward its proposals – 75 rather concrete proposals on what can be done to reverse this trend. I don't think it's enough, but I think it's a good start. It is very important that the parties discuss this and agree. One party came out and reserved, and that was the Liberals. I understand that you have your constituents in Vasastan and perhaps do not care so much about what is happening in the Swedish countryside. But I was still surprised, because what you got up to and became your pretext for reserving was that you want good government service, such as the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Pension Agency, in the countryside. What's wrong with that, Jan Björklund?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-551	Mr President, I would like to It is excellent to have good service. I grew up in a smaller community myself. Service is needed throughout Sweden, and I very much agree with the idea that the whole of Sweden should live. However, I do not believe that Parliament should decide exactly where the local offices of different authorities should be located. I don't believe in that kind of central control. When you are in an investigation to find 75 points, I think it is very tempting to go in and poke into everything that we normally think the authorities themselves must be responsible for. We have another proposal, which I think would be very effective. We believe that we should differentiate the travel allowance in Sver ige. Please remove the travel deductions or reduce them significantly in the metropolitan regions, but double them in the sparsely populated areas! You have voted against this, but I think it is an effective measure. There is an important difference in how far you have to travel both to work and to other things you have to do in life. It's not that easy. Not everyone in Sweden can take the subway. It doesn't work that way, Jonas Sjöstedt.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-554	Mr President, I would like to Now it became incomprehensible, Jan Björklund. The travel allowance is included in this investigation. The proposals are financed by reduced travel deductions in metropolitan areas. What you are saying is that you want instead, Jan Björklund, is included in the investigation that you have reserved for. In fact, it makes no sense. I still can't understand this. Is it some kind of symbolic policy that you should show that you do not care about the countryside, which makes you think of a reason to reserve when we finally come up with 75 concrete proposals to reverse this development? When you listen to you, you might think that you can develop a map in the investigation where it says where the Social Insurance Office should have its offices. There is no such map, it is about the principle of ensuring good service throughout the country. You're against it. It really makes no sense, Jan Björklund.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-557	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Sjöstedt must have thought a long time before he came up with what line he would put on me. We have a very broad consensus in this investigation. I suppose it's a single point where there's a difference of opinion. But it is interesting that Jonas Sjöstedt now says that he is in favour of differentiated travel deductions. Then why did you vote against it when we voted in December, Jonas Sjöstedt? Was it on New Year's night that you found out that you are for differentiated travel deductions?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-559	Mr President, I would like to If Sweden is to stand strong, reforms are needed that strengthen trust in society, that strengthen individual people, that strengthen families and that strengthen our common security. The issues of security must take more space in the political debate whether it is about protecting everyday life from crime, about knowing that care and care work for those who need it, or about the financial security that older people who have been involved in building up Sweden should have through their pension. Mr President, I would like to For the Christian Democrats, the path to a society is more characterised by trust and security through an alliance government that moves into Rosenbad no later than after the 2018 elections. I have become even more convinced of this during this debate.
i-WibkZwZopWct4bPt9SgSVa	Mr President, I would like to Good continuation, Andreas Carlson and other colleagues! Children in Sweden have celebrated Christmas under very different conditions. There are children who eagerly wait all day at Santa Claus, and then there are children who are anxiously waiting for Dad to get drunk. There are children who get so many presents that they don't have the energy to unpack everyone at night, and then there are children who don't know what to answer when friends ask what they got. The Swedish government is determined to break child poverty. Children in Sweden will grow up in safety, and we will do what we can for it. But the Christian Democrats say no to children being given glasses regardless of their parents' wallet, no to children being given medicine regardless of their parents' wallet and no to increased maintenance support for divorced parents, who have been frozen for ten years. You want to reinstate insurance for sick parents, and you want to lower the ceiling of the unemployment fund. When you say in the Christian Democrats that you are the voice of the family, do you mean the voice of some families?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-566	Mr President, I would like to No, we mean the voice of all families. That's why in our budget – as you would have seen if you looked – we have accurate reforms for the very group that you are highlighting here, Gustav Fridolin, and that we in the Christian Democrats are protecting. We want targeted housing allowance. You removed, among other things, leisure money, which enabled parents who might otherwise not be able to afford to buy a floorball club, soccer shoes or anything else that allows children to participate in leisure activities. In addition, I know that many non-profit organisations are doing an amazing job around Christmas in supporting families. We see that power in society, and therefore in our budget we have reintroduced the right of deduction for gifts – the one you were so eager to abolish. You wanted a warmer society, but with a abolished gift tax deduction it becomes a colder society. Sure, highlight the various solutions that you have in your budget, but do not hide the minus signs that you have presented!
i-6f7906a360d2f467-570	Mr President, I would like to I don't understand. The Christian Democrats' answer for children to grow up in security is that rich people should have the opportunity to make tax deductions on money they donate. It is a special grant that is applied for with the cap in hand to buy a floorball club for the children instead of being part of our support. You stand for that policy, but you do not stand for us to have safe health insurance. You want to reinstate the insurance of sick parents. You want to lower the unemployment fund. You have said no to the children being able to get glasses regardless of their parents' wallet or medicine regardless of their parents' wallet, and you do not want us to have maintenance support for divorced parents. Single parents were among those most affected by the economic crisis. There are those who have really fallen behind, and children who grow up with single parents have been tougher. Why do the Christian Democrats consistently want to freeze the increase in maintenance support for divorced parents? Is there a principle against divorce, or what is the reason?
i-6f7906a360d2f467-574	Mr President, I would like to If you want to misunderstand what I said, you can do it. I highlighted several measures that the Green Party has been involved in, measures that have helped and supported families with children in the country. We want to go further. We want to strengthen the housing allowance. We want to ensure that distribution policies are targeted for those who are in the worst position. But the most important measure, Gustav Fridolin, is that more people should get to work – that more people have a job to go to so that more children see their mother and father go to work and get their own support. It is the most important effort that we can make, and it is to get more people to break the exclusion and get to work that we have an offensive policy with, among other things, introductions that make it easier to get into work. We also want to ensure that companies can hire more. That is where we see how we can break out of exclusion, and where our policy also contains several proposals that ensure the benefit of the family and the most vulnerable.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-579	Mr President, I would like to It is important to reduce the spread of blood-borne infections among drug injectors. It mainly concerns infections such as HIV and hepatitis C. A large part of the infection is caused by people sharing unclean syringes and needles. This is the report on which we are now going to debate: syringe exchange activities and accessibility. Experience from the many years of operations and projects in Malmö and Lund shows that the activities have been received very well by those who abuse drugs. The syringe exchange program allows drug injectors to hand in used syringes and needles to a clinic and get new ones in return. There may also be a number of other measures available, aimed at improving health and justifying treatment of drug use itself. The distribution should be seen as part of the overall efforts of county councils and municipalities to reduce drug use and its harmful effects. Drug use and addiction cause great suffering and often lead to personal and family tragedies. The number of drug-related deaths is increasing while organised crime is making money from people's addiction and addiction. We Moderates want a clear and restrictive drugs policy. We want as few people as possible to try or use any form of drugs. Sweden must have zero tolerance for drugs. Our young people should not end up in drug addiction. Displacement activities are seen by Moderates as part of the overall drugs policy. Today, drug treatment is a shared responsibility between municipalities and county councils. According to the Social Services Act, municipalities are primarily responsible for substance abuse and addiction care, and the Health Care Act obliges county councils to provide medical and psychiatric care. This shows that the problems and activities are divided. In the proposal that has now been put forward, the Government considers that responsibility for syringe exchange activities should lie only with the county councils. The aim is therefore to remove the influence of municipalities on decisions on the introduction of syringe exchange activities. We Moderates want today's legislation to remain firm. Decisions on the introduction of syringe exchange programmes should also be taken in future in collaboration between county councils/regions and municipalities. Local and regional conditions and collaborations can then be better used to get the best care. Mr President, I would like to It is worrying that the government chooses not to see the whole picture of a comprehensive treatment of drug abuse and the fight against the spread of serious diseases. The government argues that syringe exchange operations are primarily a disease protection operation and that it is therefore reasonable that it is the principal person responsible for disease protection, i.e. county councils/regions, who is best suited to determine whether needs exist. At the same time, it is stated in the Ministry's letter on increased accessibility to syringe exchange activities in Sweden that municipal self-government means that it is at local level that the decision to set up the business should be made. It is worrying to see how this government chooses to prioritise. It removes the tools that were available to reduce waiting times in healthcare and to increase the availability of, for example, patients with infectious diseases. This is the special state grant for HIV/AIDS and other infectious, transmissible and bloodborne diseases – efforts that have so far been aimed at strengthening and complementing the measures taken by county councils/regions and municipalities. The government chooses to prioritise proposals to increase the availability of syringe exchange for drug injectors. The government notes that the most effective way to reduce the incidence of hepatitis C and HIV is a preventive approach. Why, then, is it chosen to reduce the budget resources of these efforts to prevent HIV/AIDS and other communicable diseases? Mr President, I would like to A clear chain of care and a holistic approach to drug and addiction care, along with social interventions, is absolutely necessary. In 2012, the Alliance government introduced the possibility of collusive agreements between the different principals in relation to drug treatment. It is now time to review the possibility of making these mandatory so that no person, no matter where in the country you live, will fall between the chairs when it comes to appropriate interventions and care. All parts of the syringe exchange operations should be evaluated regularly. The actions shall be based on documented knowledge, proven experience and the individual's needs. Mr President, I would like to I demand biphale l to Moderate reservation 1.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-592	Mr President, I would like to It is not always I feel that I have really contributed politically to change for those I have fought for: those who do not have their own megaphones in the social debate and those who stand at the bottom of the social staircase. But now I do. Ten years of campaigning for syringe exchange and removing the right of veto for municipalities and lowering the age limit for syringe exchange to 18 years is finally entering the tile. The road to this day has been paved by officials and politicians, mainly politicians, who have been working against a self-evident health reform for injecting, dependent women and men. Prejudice and ignorance have been their hallmark, as well as a lack of humanism that shows that they have had a human view where dependent women and men have not really qualified as full citizens worth a full life, where health efforts should be offered by society. I'm so glad we're gonna make these decisions today. It's a victory for equal health. I want to thank Gabriel Wikström for fixing this – great! – and all organisations and politicians from different parties who have fought for this issue. Thank you! The right of veto has meant that the municipalities have been able to say no to needle exchange, even though the county council wants to run it. Now we are also lowering the age to switch syringes to 18 years old. We will do so in 2017. It is a failure that this decision has had to wait so long. It is a moral, human and political failure. How many people have had HIV or hepatitis on the way? Thousands! How many have died unnecessarily, and who are responsible for this type of disease and death? I believe that it is the politicians who persistently continue to trumpet out that needle exchange means more addicts and who did not see dependent men and women as human beings but as drug addicts, another kind of person who is not entitled to equal health. There is a disrespect among politicians who continue to ignore the research and experience that exists in the world and in Sweden about spray exchange. Often the debate has been vulgarized and needle exchange painted out as the entrance to the legalisation of drugs. It is a perverse argument and a myth that has been cultivated quite strongly. It seems that more people would start to abuse if there were needle exchange. In Stockholm it turns out that 30 percent of those who inject drugs and go to syringe exchange do not have contact with social services, psychiatry or health care. That's what they get by going to the needle exchange. But this also shows that we have a situation where this group does not really have confidence in what social services and care can offer. Nor is it reasonable for politicians to have been able to deny the protection of people who have injected drugs. The fact that over 1,000 people every year have been infected by hepatitis C is not humane, and it clashes with the requirement of equal health. The mortality rate of the injecting group has doubled in 15 years, and I have to say that I am surprised that this has not triggered politicians in the past. But the ignorance of drug addicts dying and fathering ill has been rarely large among politicians in Sweden. There is a need for a policy aimed at the stigmatisation of users, a policy which is not about legalisation but against discrimination and which reverses the trend we are experiencing today in the field of drugs. It takes several roads; there is not only one road. Sprinkler exchange programs are a disease protection and a health activity – offering a life without HIV and hepatitis. Even vulnerable people have the right to health care. It is about everyone's right to equal health. The Left Party wants to go one step further and remove the residence requirement. The Government has a proposal where the residence requirement has been criticised by the Public Health Authority, the Prison Service, the Medical Association and several universities. According to the criticism, the residence requirement creates unnecessary problems. After all, the aim of the reform is to remove barriers and create a low-threshold activity. Then the residence requirement can be quite counterproductive. Accessibility is central to syringe exchange activities. Access to healthcare should not depend on the place of residence and on where you are written. Social services do not work with population register addresses, but with terms of residence. I agree with the criticism that the residence requirement should be abolished. It should be possible to search for needle exchange even where you are not registered. The debate on drug users, users and addiction will continue. But repression does not create a better treatment for addicts. We can see that. Perhaps the next battle will be about the criminalisation of drugs for their own use. There is no sign that the law has functioned as intended. If drug users become criminals automatically, they will also be pushed quite effectively away from health care and treatment. Experience shows that people who have problems often avoid seeking help, and this can lead to deeper abuse. Of course, we should supply naloxone nationally to prevent the death of overdoses. I believe in damage control – what is also called harm reduction – for those who are in an addiction. I also believe in care and treatment for those who want to break their addiction. Repression has killed. Harm reduction, damage control, care and treatment and more resources for welfare prevent it. Drugs policy must be based on knowledge of how different measures work in practice, not on ideological dogmas. A solid welfare, built on solidarity, and a functioning school that does not dump the children of the working class is the best recipe for preventing abuse. I would ask you to accept reservation 3.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-608	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has and will continue to have a restrictive drugs policy. However, the issue we have to decide on today is the prevention of the spread of infectious diseases. It is about how we can prevent those who are already in a very tough situation as addicts from also suffering very serious diseases. I have a great deal of sympathy for many of those who have been sceptical about needle exchange. They have seen other examples where the needle exchange has not been linked clearly enough to help those who are prepared to accept help to end their addiction. There is not enough support in connection with the needle exchange. But now we have our own experience from a number of places in our own country, and there are also several international experiences that show that a syringe exchange can provide good help and support and that it has an effect on the spread of infection. Between 2008 and 2011, it is estimated that in our country there were about 8,000 drug users with an injection drug. In the few places where we have had the opportunity to exchange syringes, some 3 000 people have taken part in the syringe exchange operations. They have thus also made contact with healthcare and access to support that many of them would otherwise never have received. Malmö, Lund, Helsingborg, Kristianstad, Kalmar and Stockholm have had a little longer experience. Since last year it also applies to Jönköping, Karlskrona and Växjö. But in order to make this important disease protection work possible in more county councils – it is the county council that is responsible for the prevention of the spread of infection – it is also reasonable that the county councils have the decision-making power. However, this does not mean that the municipalities do not also have a responsibility. The person who lives with an addiction needs the help of both health care and social care. It is therefore important that there is a requirement for consultation before a county council is allowed to establish a syringe exchange programme, and in that consultation all municipalities within the county council's area of activity must be involved. However, it is not reasonable for those who are not responsible for the spread of infection to veto the decision on incorrect or unsubstantiated grounds. We Christian Democrats believe that now, with the experience we have, there is reason to lower the age limit from 20 to 18 years, but that there is reason to maintain an 18-year limit. An important part of the responsibility of those involved in syringe exchange activities is also to report to the social services when one suspects that a child is harmed, whether the child himself comes with an active abuse or if one discovers that someone you get in contact with through the syringe exchange operation has children who are at risk of harm. It will then be counterproductive if people under the age of 18 can also actively participate in the business themselves. However, the age limit of 20 years has been set in such a way that many are at risk of infection. Many times the addiction starts before you are 20 years of age, and you risk getting the infection before you can get the right to help. Against this background, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-616	Mr President, I would like to We are today debating the issue of increased availability of syringe exchange activities in Sweden. I shall begin by calling for approval of the committee's proposal and rejection of the motions. The purpose of the Government's legislative proposal is to improve access to syringe exchanges throughout the country. For us Social Democrats, we are talking about equal opportunities for people who inject to avoid having to suffer infectious diseases. It is also a question of giving them the opportunity to come into contact with health care and social interventions that can motivate treatment and end abuse. At the same time, there is much to be gained from reducing risk behaviour and the spread of dangerous diseases. Currently, access to syringe exchanges is too limited. The obstacles to the expansion and development of activities should be removed. That is what the proposal proposes. At the same time, it is important to point out that it is very good to combine activities aimed at preventing ill health and helping drug users with a restrictive drug policy. Mr President, I would like to Several studies and reports, both international and national, show that there is enough science and proven experience to say that the activities of needle exchange are good in combating the spread of infection. Much also suggests that the activity, which is a complement, is an effective way of creating opportunities to improve the health of injectors. In addition, it can provide a contact area for different authorities and interventions around the people. The motivational work and the shared responsibility between healthcare and social services around abusers also explain why syringe exchange activities should be regulated in a special law and that the efforts are best done at local level and that it is therefore local self-government should prevail. More than ten years have passed since the Act on Spray Exchanges was introduced, and very few county councils have so far established activities. It is then time to streamline the responsibility to the county council, which becomes the sole principal to apply for and run the business. It is natural because the activity is primarily a disease control operation. The removal of the municipal veto will not mean that there is no requirement for consultation between health and social services. However, this requirement must not become an obstacle to applying to IVO for the launch of syringe exchange activities. Displacement activities remain complementary to other activities of abusers. And the legal requirement for agreements between municipalities and county councils continues to apply. Mr President, I would like to The legislative proposal also includes a proposal to reduce the age limit in order to switch syringes to 18 years – the current limit is 20 years. Several studies show that the onset age of many injectors is less than 20 years. Persons under the age of 20 who abuse and inject should have access to the activity under the same conditions as others to prevent the spread of infection. And it is not least a question of being able to offer a contact area when it comes to other measures against abuse. The fact that the age limit is set at 18 years is, as the previous speaker said, important in this context precisely in order to be able to use the reporting obligation in case of concerns regarding children. Mr President, I would like to A Left Party motion concerns the residence requirement. The requirement of residence in the municipality or county councils can, as the exerciser argues, create unnecessary obstacles to reaching the activities that abusers need. Several consultation bodies have also pointed this out. Against this, it can be argued that it is important that the injection exchange activities form a contact area with other authorities and organisations whose efforts are needed to motivate and to prevent and treat the abuse. This will also be an essential part of the application for authorisation to set up activities. Today, there is already flexibility in the authorities' view of the concept of residence in that it is the person's place of residence rather than the registered address that forms the basis for action against those who actually need this activity. It is important, as stated in the bill, that the residence requirement, as well as the other parts of the bill, be monitored and evaluated, and that systematics and structures be developed for continuous monitoring and knowledge collection. Mr President, I would like to It is with pleasure that we today have a decision in the Swedish Parliament that will mean that more people who belong to the most vulnerable of society can get part of efforts that limit the infection of serious diseases, that these people can have more opportunities to improve their health and that they can be offered a contact to get further care and treatment.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-629	Mr President, I would like to So we are here today to debate the Government's proposal for increased availability of syringe exchange activities in Sweden. The proposal contains proposals that include that the responsibility for the syringe exchange operations be given to the county council, which will then become the sole principal for applying for and operating the syringe exchange operations in the country. I would like to inform you that we have a special opinion on the proposal. Mr President, I would like to Since the syringe exchange operation is primarily a disease control operation, we believe that the responsible principal, i.e. the county council, is the one who should decide whether there is a need for the activities in the county council and in the country. Landstingen has a responsibility under the Disease Protection Act to prevent and prevent the spread of infectious diseases. It is therefore very reasonable, in our view, for county councils to be able to apply independently for the establishment of the business, which then corresponds to this responsibility. For us verige democrats, the question is who is best placed to decide in this area and not whether we as a party are in favour of or against syringe exchange. We believe that it is up to each county council to decide for itself and determine the regional need for this activity. Mr President, I would like to We are also in favour of the Government's emphasis in the bill that consultation between county councils and municipalities is still important for patients and patients to be in focus. We therefore assume that the municipalities will continue to be listened to in the future, taking into account any objections and placing emphasis on their views. The proposal is in the right direction, as we have long believed that the overall head of drug treatment should be at the county council. We believe that healthcare should have overall responsibility for drug treatment, as is the case in most countries in Europe. It should be remembered that the majority of drug users have an underlying mental or somatic disease. Therefore, it must be assumed in substance abuse care that the primary treatment of the current disease and, secondly, the relief of the symptoms should be taken into account. As far as all other health care is concerned, this approach is taken. Abuse treatment must not be an exception. In addition, studies show that a large proportion of the population would prefer to be helped against their dependence via healthcare, as with other types of health problems. Most people who have an addiction problem say: I want to talk to my family doctor or district doctor and not have to go to a social office. Finally, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-635	Mr President, I would like to I think it is extremely good that today we have the opportunity to discuss this proposal. I think that for a little bit of a variety of reasons. The first reason is that all of us sitting here know that Swedish health care and also Swedish social services face enormous challenges in a large number of areas. Many of us in the Social Affairs Committee have felt that this has been a matter of concern in a situation where the government does not come up with any concrete proposals for legislative changes at all. Now we have finally received a proposal from the government, which presents a proposal on how to change Swedish healthcare so that it gets better. I hope that this is a little bit of a start from the government and that it is now beginning to come back to Parliament with proposals. We do not have a problem-free situation in Sweden, and we need proposals from the government to be able to take the debate here and actually make changes. The second reason why I think it is important that we can have this discussion and that later this afternoon we can make decisions is that Swedish substance abuse care is not something we can be proud of. This is one of the areas where we have serious concerns. It is a higher mortality rate than in the corresponding countries. The reason for this, my friends, is that we in Sweden have seen addictions and addictions that are largely the cause of social ills. This was the reason why, in the early 70s, when it came to building up care and care for people who suffered from addiction, it was precisely the municipalities that were given responsibility. Social problems were considered to be the basis. The municipalities' social services were responsible for such things, and as a result they also received the main responsibility. Today we know so much better. Today we know that this is a disease comparable to most other diseases, where there is a very strong genetic element but also environmental factors. We in the Center Party have for a long time been pushing for a change and seriously saying that in the case of addiction, just as in the case of all other diseases, it should be the health care principal, that is, the county councils, who are responsible for treatment. Then, in the case of addiction, like many other diseases, there are social components. This is the case with people with mental illness who need strong contributions from social services. It is not least about those who have dementia; they also need strong input from the municipality and social services. In no other area, however, has it been said that the municipality is responsible for treatment. We could never imagine saying that it is the social services that should be responsible for people who suffer from diabetes, but just when you suffer from addiction you should not come to health care, but it is the municipalities' social services that have the main responsibility. It is time we changed that, and the decision we are going to make today is a very important step. Finally, it is said that in the case of addiction and needle exchange, the county councils have the main responsibility. The third reason why I think it is a good thing that we can make this decision is that it signals that we are gradually changing attitudes in Sweden with regard to people with addiction, from an approach that says that this is a disease group that we come to terms with and can help by running a hard line and ensuring that they end up with drugs to that we can regard them as other disease groups, that is, the most important thing is to ensure that these people survive and can have as good a life as possible. If you can then get to the point where you can also cure their basic disease, it is fantastic, but we would never dream of saying to a person who has suffered from sequelae because of cigarette smoking that if you do not stop smoking you will absolutely not get any help from the healthcare system. It is a gradual change when we now say that addiction is actually a disease like everyone else, that is to say that these are also people for whom we should do everything we can to ensure that they survive in the first place. Secondly, we will ensure that they suffer as few sequelae as possible, and thirdly, and in some cases, we can also help them to recover from their basic disease. However, this is very difficult with regard to the group we are talking about today. Finally, I think it is a little misleading and for the idea wrong to call this a syringe exchange operation. This is an activity that is very much more than just needle exchange. When you hear the word a syringe exchange, you see that here you come with a syringe and then you get another syringe. But that is not what this is about; it is about opening the door to people in an extremely vulnerable situation so that they can get in touch with a nurse and the healthcare system, motivated for treatment, getting help with the sequelae they have and, in addition, being helped to use clean syringes to reduce the risk of HIV, hepatitis C and other dangerous diseases. So this is much more than syringe exchange and a disease control measure – it is a central part of helping these people. For these three reasons, Mr President, I find it wonderful to be standing here in the Parliament's pulpit and calling for the committee's proposal to be approved so that we can finally take another small step forward in helping this group, which is currently having an extremely difficult time in our country.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-649	Mr President, I would like to Finally, finally, finally! When the club team falls this afternoon, we're almost there. On March 15, 1989, Doctors Against AIDS, where I was chairman, distributed the book Clean syringes to drug addicts in the unions of all MPs. The reason was that after two years of testing of syringe exchange programmes, Skåne had found that it had been possible to prevent Scanian injectors from becoming infected with HIV, unlike the addicts in Stockholm, who had suffered from an HIV epidemic. Back then, we didn't have any anti-depressants. At that time, HIV was 100 percent fatal. It was the most serious infection we had ever faced. If we compare it to smallpox, only 30% of those who had been infected by it died. At that time they started in Skåne on the advice of the World Health Organisation syringe exchange project. It wasn't just an epidemic you stopped. There were also addicts, half a time more, who were unknown to social services but who had such confidence in health care that they got there and also got help into treatment programs. We in Doctors Against AIDS thought that this should be tried in many more places in Sweden, but it was a compact resistance, especially from social services and a number of organisations. Health care, the Medical Association and the Medical Association were all in favour and felt that this is a medical issue, just as Anders W Jonsson has been on the subject. It's about helping these people into a dignified life if possible and not just under the threat of a 100 percent fatal infection. The project had to continue. In 1995, the results were not only in Sweden but also abroad such that the World Health Organisation and the World Bank advised countries to introduce these programmes as part of health care. Sweden was probably the last country to hook and introduce it. There was, as Karin Rågsjö said, prejudice, ignorance and vulgarisation in the debate, which led Parliament to decide only in 2006 on the programme that we have today. I am a little proud, I have to say, that the People's Party at the time in 1995 was already exercising in Parliament on a nationwide programme. In this exercise, we also discussed the conflict in substance abuse care that still exists between municipalities, social services and health care. It was very clear at the beginning of the 1990s in the National Board of Health and Welfare, which had a very difficult time with these evaluations. Now we have come to a decision, which I am very happy about. Now it is not only about HIV but also about hepatitis C and other hepatitis. But it is also, as Anders W Jonsson said, about how we can get a vision so that we see addiction care as a health care issue. Being dependent is a disease, and now health interventions can be prioritised in a way that emerges. What I want to mention in this context is that it has taken over 30 years from the WHO's view that this method should be tested until we reach this goal. Other ideological conflicts in health care have also taken a very long time. Those of you who have seen the Miss Friman series have witnessed that it took 17 years for Karolina Widerström from what she saw that the regulation, i.e. the police's weekly survey of prostitutes, had no effect on or counteracted the spread of venereal diseases – 17 years! It is a long time for women in the situation they were exposed to that treatment. It has taken over 30 years to develop an individual-based prescription register to increase the safety of drug consumers. It took over 30 years to allow assisted conception of single people, and so on. The obstacles along the way have been prejudices and myths that have slowed down. There is reason for us in the Riksdag to review how communication can be overcome so that those who are against can still hear the arguments, research and knowledge that form the basis for the changes that many of us want to see. If we do not take the discussion, many people, drug users and addicts, and so on, will run unnecessary risks. It actually costs a penny, too. I support the proposal in the proposal and the report.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-661	Mr President, I would like to It has been interesting to hear previous speakers – Barbro Westerholm, Karin Rågsjö and others. The reason why the bill can be put through in Parliament today with the approval of the proposal in the report is that many have fought, not infrequently in the headwind, on these issues to make it better for vulnerable people. Today, syringe exchange activities take place in nine locations around the country. The proposal includes removing the municipal veto and lowering the age limit from 20 to 18 years. This is positive, but we will also have to do more to reduce the high drug mortality rate in Sweden. In Lund and Malmö, the needle exchange has been the longest since the late 80s. It was controversial, and in the meantime it has also been controversial. There have been critics who have meant that it has been giving up the restrictive drugs policy to have that system. But the truth is, the needle exchange business has saved lives. It has also reduced the suffering of some of society's most vulnerable individuals. It has prevented the spread of infection by using clean needles instead. Perhaps more importantly, it has meant that addicts who have not had faith in society and social systems have got a fixed point in their lives outside of addiction. The nurses in the syringe exchange operation have not only been some who have provided clean syringes, but have also been an entrance to the care and, by extension, to the community at large. Nor should we forget abusive women who have become pregnant – of course a very vulnerable group. However, there are still huge mortality problems among drug users. In contrast to other comparable countries, Denmark, Finland, Germany and the Netherlands, Sweden is high. There is reason for us to look outward to see what we can change to reduce both abuse and suffering as a result of abuse. In Denmark there have been so-called "fixums" for some years. I woke up a exercise during the general exercise about introducing experiments in Sweden. They are institutions with nurses where addicts go to inject heroin and narcotics. I visited Valmuen, one of Copenhagen's fixers, in the autumn of 2015. It is a calm and safe environment with experienced and knowledgeable staff. There, after their intake, people were left indoors in heat instead of risking freezing, in the worst case, to death in the street. Just as the syringe exchange programme has been criticised, this is also controversial. Critics once again feel that it is giving up the dream of an entirely drug-free society. Mr President, I would like to While we dream of a completely drug-free society, people die. There are 92 per million people in Sweden compared to 55 in Denmark. No one has yet died because of an overdose in any of the Danish fixums. In Sweden it does not look the same. When last autumn I met an ambulance nurse in Malmö, who contacted me after I had awakened the exercise to introduce an attempt, he described to me a completely different reality. It is a reality where ambulances pull out to dirty public toilets, to backyards and apartments. Usually they manage to save lives, but unfortunately they don't always have time. The addicts also have to spend much of their waking time chasing drugs– not infrequently at the expense of other people and society at large. Reducing the suffering of addicts also relieves suffering and damage to the environment. The Green Party has not taken a stand on the issue for or against the fixum. The exercise I've aroused is my own. I do not know if any of the other parties have taken a stand, but I think that we should not lock ourselves up in advance for different solutions on this issue. We should also show great humility in that Sweden is among the countries with the highest rates in the EU in terms of drug mortality. Perhaps there are things to learn from other countries. I support the proposal in the report.
i-6f7906a360d2f467-673	Mr President, I would like to The proposal we are dealing with now means increased opportunities for syringe exchange in Sweden. For both government parties, i.e. the Social Democrats and us in the Green Party, this is an urgent issue. There is a solid basis for access to clean syringes to reduce the spread of HIV and hepatitis. Dispersal is an important public health issue because infection is largely prevented when more county councils and regions choose to introduce syringe exchange – and there are more and more county councils that want to. The biggest obstacle has been the municipal veto. This has meant so far that municipalities can say no to participation and that their residents should have the opportunity to switch to clean syringes. We do not think that is reasonable. That veto is now removed. When a county council or a region introduces such a programme, all persons in the county council have the opportunity to participate regardless of which municipality they live in. I want to give extra credit to Minister of Health Gabriel Wikström and his staff who have produced a good bill. Kredd also deserves the Left Party, the Liberals, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats, who have also been pushing the issue for several years. There is a broad majority in the Riksdag that supports the reform. In addition to removing the municipal veto, this bill has several other advantages. The most important of them is that the age limit for participation of drug injectors is reduced from 20 to 18 years. It increases the preventive effect, not only that more people have access to clean syringes, but also the contact between injectors and doctors, nurses and curators. This provides increased opportunities to work with motivation and to motivate treatment to stop using drugs. Of course, it is particularly important for young people who are at the beginning of a possible addiction career to get that treatment contact. We need to think both short-term and long-term on this issue. This is important in order to prevent people from contracting HIV and hepatitis, which are lifelong infections. It also provides the important opportunities for contact with the target group, which creates relationships and trust. Often, the relationship with a doctor or nurse is a prerequisite for a person who uses drugs to take a step towards life without drugs. The third important change in this reform is the removal of the requirement to label needles and syringes. This makes it easier to get clean syringes, which also enhances the preventive effect. Mr President, I would like to It's a balanced bill. It is supported by heavy bodies such as the National Board of Health and Public Health and has broad support in Swedish and international research. In Sweden there are only seven receptions for syringe exchange in four county councils. The decision we are now making makes it much easier for county councils to start such receptions and much easier to prevent the spread of infection. The Green Party fully supports this, and I call for the proposal to be approved.
