i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-4	Mr President, I would like to We live in a troubled time. We see rapid changes. And in the coming years, the challenges of the world around us will increasingly clearly and more often break into Swedish everyday life. At this time of great challenges, Sweden will be able to be a strong player who assumes its responsibility for international peace, security and development. Our participation in civilian and military crisis management is central to this. Sweden shall have the ability to prevent and manage the crises we face, but we shall also cooperate with others. This requires us to pursue an active foreign, defence and security policy with a clearer link to and priority of Swedish interests. The aim of the policy is to protect the Swedish territory and protect the open society, based on our fundamental values. Mr President, I would like to The security challenges we see around us are multifaceted and complex, and they do not just include traditional military threats. We all know that we are faced with a broad threat picture in which factors such as climate, energy, food security and asymmetrical threats, such as terrorism, cyber attacks and misinformation, will also affect us. This means that responses to security challenges must also be broad where both military and civilian capabilities work together to strengthen our robustness and be able to face crises. Sweden's international efforts are an important contribution to strengthening the work for peace and security in many troubled places around the world. By participating in international efforts, we also strengthen our own security and our security policy influence. Swedish military international efforts will continue to be significant. It is important that Sweden and other countries continue to have a strong international military commitment to peace, security and stability. There are, of course, challenges, and we must also give priority. It is about where, in what context and with whom Sweden should make international efforts. It is also about how we become better in collaboration between civil and military parts in order to create long-term solutions and sustainability. Sweden should also continue to participate in the fight against international terrorism. Sweden has participated in NATO-led operations on several occasions. They have been valuable and have contributed to peace and security. But there is, of course, also a value in greater participation in UN-led operations, which we are doing now. We also participate in both civilian and military EU-led operations. With regard to NATO, Mr President, the four alliance parties have a reservation in the report. I'll take this opportunity to ask for your approval. It's about reservation 5. Of course, I support all the reservations of the Moderates, but I do not advocate their approval in order to gain time. We share the government's assessment of increased cooperation with NATO, but we do not think this is enough. Since its creation, NATO has been a cornerstone of European security and has pushed for stable development in our part of the world. One of the three pillars of NATO's strategic concept is international crisis management. NATO also places great emphasis on civilian preparedness as a response to hybrid-like threats. NATO therefore plays a crucial role in international crisis management. The fact that NATO is doing this is one of the reasons why we believe that Sweden should become a member. But, of course, we shall also deepen existing cooperation with NATO countries in as many areas as possible in order to create the conditions for providing and receiving civilian and military assistance in the event of a crisis or conflict. Sweden's most important security policy arena, apart from NATO, which we are not members of, is the European Union, which is an organisation in which we are members. Given the deteriorating security situation, the issue of European cooperation in security and defence policy is increasingly important. We think it is a good thing that the EU takes greater responsibility, both civilian and military, for international peace and security, not least in the immediate region. That is why we support the new level of ambition that exists for the common defence and security policy. The EU can take on major cross-border challenges and can deal with many different threats and risks. The EU is in a position to be a global player with the wide range of security policy instruments it actually has at its disposal. Several different processes are now under way to strengthen the EU's common security and defence policy. We welcome the work on it. A common security and defence policy also includes an effective crisis management capability and must be able to manage security both outside and within the Union. This is crucial for maintaining security arrangements in Europe and the neighbourhood. Here we think that the Swedish government should do more to be able to participate and influence. Sweden should be active and drive forward, not least in those areas where there are obvious cooperation and efficiency gains. Of course, the UN has a unique role to play. Its task is to promote global development and peace. It hasn't gotten any easier over the years. If the UN is to be strong and work in reality, we must push for reform of the UN. The UN Security Council has been given the primary responsibility by the Member States to maintain international peace and security. However, in recent years the Security Council has failed to deal with the most difficult conflicts we have seen; the two largest concern Syria and Ukraine. This, of course, damages the credibility of the UN as a global player for peace. The UN must be better. This applies not least to civilian and military crisis management. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to stress the importance of working on issues relating to women and children, because women are often particularly affected by crisis, war and natural disasters. That is why we need to continue to put a great deal of effort into these areas of crisis and conflict management, including development work and other international work. Working on the basis of UN resolutions 1325 and 1820 on the situation of women and children in armed conflicts means important tools that will characterise Swedish and international civilian and military crisis management.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-20	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 6 in the report. Today we are dealing with the Foreign Affairs Committee's report No 8, Sweden's overall policy for international civilian and military crisis management. I would like to make it clear at the outset that multilateral cooperation is important for solving international problems. That is understandable, because we are dealing with international problems. It is not wrong to probe the terrain with the other members of the European Union if they have views similar to ours. If, however, they are not, we should not lock ourselves on to an EU line in which we compromise our line on the matter. The CSDP, for example, must never become a more important diplomatic and security policy arena than the UN or a dialogue with our Nordic neighbours. The proposals contained in the report must also be put into a context in order to be understood in depth. When we talk about cooperation with the EU and within the EU, we have to understand that it is about much bigger things than individual reports and individual proposals. Within the EU and here in the Swedish Parliament there are globalists who run an agenda that is not in line with what is security for the respective peoples of the European countries. Instead, the agenda is to create state-like institutions within the EU in order to finally establish a European federal state governed by bureaucrats and large countries such as Germany and France – the rest of us will have to adapt beautifully. Juncker, the EU's non-elected President, has set itself the goal of a common defence for the EU. He has even given a year for when he thinks this should be introduced, namely 2025. Pesco, which is partly dealt with in the report, is a first step towards exactly this – permanent structured cooperation. Pesco is called by Juncker for a sleeping beauty. The same President who calls for a common EU defence by 2025 admits that Pesco is the first step towards a common EU defence. The bourgeois and red-green parties here in Parliament are touchingly agreed that this is something very positive and that we should be more subject to the EU and contribute to a European superstate. A state is not a state but a defence force of its own. In this light, the proposals contained in the report are to be seen. Europe needs a common defence force in order to be able to categorize itself as just one state. There are a number of contradictory wordings and positions in the report. It is relatively common when we treat Europe. Among other things, the committee agrees with the government's view that strong European cooperation, with the European Union at its core, is of great importance in the light of the growing number of conflicts in the world. The EU should therefore be strengthened as a security policy actor, including: by developing the Union's capacity to plan and conduct civilian and military crisis management operations. – – However, the committee agrees with the Committee on Defence's view that European cooperation on security and defence policy should not be characterised by supranationality. The government wants to see an inclusive Pesco, where as many EU Member States as possible choose to participate from the beginning. For the government, it is also important that Pesco leads to increased operational capacity and helps Europe to take greater responsibility for its own security. ..................................................... If we are to take a strong stance and create operational capacity, we also need to build military infrastructure and institutions that will enable us to create an operational capability in the European Union. While we do not want supranationality, it is precisely against supranationality that we are moving. This is in line with what Mr Juncker and many other declared federalists in the European Union have spoken out in favour of. In a vote in the European Parliament on a Defence Union and its attitude to it, it was quite clear where the respective parties stand on this issue. The bourgeois representatives of the European Parliament voted in favour of a defence union with the aim of a common European defence. However, this House claims to be opposed to supranational cooperation. I can't really get it together. The Socialist Members of the European Parliament voted a little differently. Some abstained and thus allowed this to pass undisturbed, while some actually voted no. But it also shows a little bit of the wobbly attitude of the Social Democrats on these issues. One day they say no, the second day yes, the third day maybe. Mr President, I would like to In this situation, multilateral cooperation in general – and within the framework of the EU in particular – is more important than ever for Sweden's security. What has the EU done for Sweden's security? Today we have no border protection in Sweden. The hand grenades that are thrown into the suburbs against Swedish police, do you think they are made here in Sweden? They are smuggled freely throughout Europe and into Sweden because of the dismantled border guards. Criminals move freely across borders. Terrorists also move freely across borders, as has been proven over and over again. I do not quite understand how one believes that the EU, which cannot even maintain any form of internal security, should be able to contribute to international security. I can't really get it together. Those of you who are behind this mean that Europe should resolve crises and increase Sweden's security, although it will be exactly the opposite, as I have touched upon. We can look at the United States and Russia, two countries which to a large extent interfere in different countries and think they know better than they do. The result? Well, chaos in the Middle East and chaos in North Africa. Unfortunately, Sweden participated actively in Libya. We were involved in destroying a country completely. Have we taken responsibility after that? No. Would the EU do better? Probably not – not with the people who run the EU right now. Nevertheless, multilateral cooperation remains the solution to international problems. But then you should use those who have proved to be working. The UN is not the best organisation, but it is the least bad option we have to deal with international crises in the world. We have long had a line in Sweden where we have followed the UN recommendations and acted under the UN flag when we have participated in various efforts around the world. Once again, CSDP can be a good arena, as long as we do not compromise our line and as long as we realise that CSDP is not a first choice for Sweden in our foreign policy. The solution is found within the UN and in talks with our Nordic neighbours in the first place. It is through the UN and on the mandate of the UN that we shall carry out civilian and military crisis management missions. For example, it is in defence alliances with Finland that we can deal with the threats that we have to deal with in our own local region. Of course, Sweden will also have increased and deepened cooperation with the other Nordic countries.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-32	Mr President, I would like to I don't know what to say about Jeff Ahls's speech. It was very little about civilian and military crisis management. Jeff Ahl used very much of his speaking time to spread myths about European defence cooperation in particular and about the EU in general. I think that this indicates a deep lack of history and an ignorance of what Europe has meant for peace and prosperity in our part of the world. The EU was created precisely so that there would be no more wars in Europe. The EU has been working on this ever since. The work under way means that the EU will strengthen its capacity to be a global player in order to do better for those who are struggling both in poor countries and in conflict-affected countries. These are crises that will affect us too. It is for double reasons that the EU and Sweden have a responsibility to be able to enter civil and military crises and use all the instruments available. But Jeff Ahl doesn't have much interest in that. He dreams away to a defence union with Finland. Then we can conjure away all the crises that ultimately also affect both Swedes and those who live in Finland and, by the way, all those who live in Europe. Because today it's all connected. A crisis beyond the borders of the European Union also affects us and most often a whole world trade. What exactly is Jeff Ahl seeing here? It is a long way to go towards the whole of EU cooperation, and then it boils down to a defence union with Finland. How does it solve crises?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-35	Mr President, I would like to I suggest that Karin Enström listens a little more carefully next time I speak. As I mentioned, CSDP is a good place to talk, but it should not be a first-hand option. I mentioned the UN several times. We will act on the mandate of the United Nations and nothing else. It is fascinating how poor the knowledge of history very many Members of this House have. History shows quite clearly that there is no war between democracies. There are supranational Union buildings such as the EU. We have an old President of the European Parliament who said the following when the British had a referendum to leave the EU: The British have restated the Rules. It is not the EU philosophy that the cr ow d can decide its barrels e. So the people should not be allowed to decide their own fate. These are the leaders you want Sweden to submit to. It's a fact. You ignore the historical fact that democracies do not go to war with each other. They build peace and security. As far as Libya is concerned, you are talking about efforts. Are you proud of what you did down in Libya? Your party was involved in pushing through that stake. Are you happy about what it looks like down in Libya? What is it like when various great powers are involved in regional conflicts? It's never gonna be good. The UN is a good way of solving this in that one can agree on a line where several major players feel the same. But look at what it looks like in Syria and in that region and in Libya. It's not working. If the EU is also to become such a player on the world stage, there will be even more chaos. Karin Enström talks about putting things in their context. That is exactly what I do when I have my speech. Do you seriously believe that a Union that is incapable of keeping some sort of internal security will succeed in settling the crises and chaos in the world? It's highly doubtful.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-41	Mr President, I would like to I think Jeff Ahl is standing on a lot of legs here, maybe more legs at the same time than he has. On the one hand, he says: It's probably good to work together, and it's best if the UN gets to run things. At the same time, we have seen that, despite the mandate given to it by its Member States, the UN has failed. The Security Council has failed in the major conflicts in Syria and Ukraine. This means that the UN must find a way forward for the Security Council and the various UN organisations to function better. This also applies, of course, to military crisis management. We have reached an agreement in this House, and most parties are behind it. We in Sweden have chosen to build security in collaboration with other countries and other organisations. The European Union is the political union in which we are involved. As far as defence policy and defence cooperation are concerned, it is not supranational; it is intergovernmental. Jeff Ahl knows that very well. The fact that the EU is now taking strong steps to become a better global player and to manage crises outside the EU area is because it benefits both those it helps and also the stability of the EU. It's connected. There Jeff Ahl just wants to warn about something. We can take Germany as an example, which is the most important country in the European Union. It does not seem to see an EU army at all. We are talking here about greater cooperation. That is also where we will end up. Finally, to the question of Libya. I'm not ducking for that question. It was a mandate from the UN Security Council that was the basis for the operation. Maybe Jeff Ahl should read about that.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-47	Mr President, I would like to We're gonna start with me doing my homework. That's exactly what I've done. I read everything that can be read about the EU and what various EU leaders are saying about. I'm stating the fact. It has been pointed out that a federal state is the ultimate goal and a common defence one step along the way. You have also taken a position there in the European Parliament, Karin Enström. The members of the Moderates also voted for a common defence union and for common defence structures to be set up as a goal. Those are facts. It cannot be ignored that there are common defence structures in the European Union today. Then we'll talk a little bit about Russia. It's good that you bring it up. You know very well that the Swedish Democrats are also behind the actions taken against Russia in the form of sanctions and other things. But we'll talk a little bit about hypocrisy with it. We have Germany, which is a key power in the European Union. There's no denying it. A pipeline is now being built with Russia. We have allowed ports for this construction, where certain bourgeois parties voted locally to allow the ports. At the same time, Finland, for example, which is dependent on trade with Russia, is severely affected by the sanctions. It is a clear example of how Germany uses small countries and sacrifices them to carry out some sort of action against Russia. But they themselves build a pipeline with Russia in order to import Russian gas. Where is it reasonable and realistic? The EU does not take responsibility for international crisis management. It's a big lying device. It is propaganda that is squirting out from Brussels. You say you do one thing, but behind the back of the people you do the other. You've heard for yourself how to argue about referendums. It's not a democratic building. It is an imperialist building that exploits small countries, and you help and deceive the Swedish people. We have nothing to thank you for.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-54	Mr President, I would like to The letter that we now have to discuss has a grand headline, Sweden's overall policy for international civilian and military crisis management. When you look at that heading, you imagine that we have here a balance of everything we do and an assessment of the wholes. But that is not the case when you read the text in the letter. It leaves a great deal to be desired on these 38 pages, which I believe the letter from the government is. It is the letter that is the basis. A number of motions have now been added to this report. That is why the debate is also a little more diverse and broader in this context. It is said that it is a world that is more intertwined, contentious and complex. If that's what we agree on. It distinguishes the present from the time of the last letter. A great deal has happened in our Europe and in the world in ten years. If anyone asks himself about what has happened in the last debate on the international dimension of security, then I hope you will think about it. It is becoming increasingly clear in today's world that what happens far away affects us here at home. It is a broad and complex world, and what happens far away affects us. Mr President, I would like to You can't close doors. We know that there are those who want to build walls and believe that they will be safe as a result. The latest debate shows that you want to build walls, perhaps around Sweden this time. But it does not solve the challenges of the world and ours. We need to seek a broad response to threats and challenges, and we need to build security together with others. It is clear that Europe is a central political arena for us to act in. It is a political union and a Union in which the countries must express solidarity with each other. This should, as we see it, also apply to post Brexit. It is important to be clear that we should not build walls against Britain. We are building security in close cooperation with the United Kingdom, and that is important. In this context, we also hope that Pesco will work closely with the United Kingdom. It is important for our security in our part of the world, where it is quite clear that there is a great military threat but also a threat to our social order as a whole. This threat comes from Russia. Unfortunately, we cannot ignore that. This exists in several places, and not least there are many forces that threaten internally in many of our countries with extreme nationalism and populism. They threaten to destabilise and to change our security situation with non-scientific debates. Mr President, I would like to I would like to stress the importance of Sweden also being prepared to contribute widely, including with military efforts. We are prepared to do so under the UN flag and under the EU and NATO flags. On the part of the Center Party, we see that unfortunately, I have to say, military presence is all too often a prerequisite for civil intervention. Then we must see that it is not with shoe horns that we show ourselves prepared to make this kind of effort. Instead, even when we focus on our own defence, we must be prepared and willing to act militarily outside our borders in order to be able to cope with crisis management. The military presence is often, as I said, a prerequisite. It is also clear from our reservation that we think that the balance in the government's letter in this part should have been different. It would have encouraged the reading of the letter. Mr President, I would like to I am of course behind this reservation, but I am thinking of time-winning not seeking approval for it at this point in time. I'll come back to reservation 5. Peace-building and peace-keeping are important, but peace-making must also be possible. These mandates are not being created today, and we know why. This is partly due to the inability of the Security Council in the most serious conflict situations. Mr President, I would like to The letter states that Sweden's national security is based on military alliance freedom. If there is disagreement in this House. It is the Center Party's assessment as well as the Alliance's overall assessment that military alliance freedom today creates uncertainty for ourselves and for the outside world. Sweden has many bilateral agreements – patch on patch but no seam. NATO membership is basically security not only for Sweden but also for all the countries with which we say we should build security together. They have chosen NATO, all except Finland. Mr President, I would like to That is why, in our joint reservation No 5, which I support, we are calling for Sweden to seek membership of NATO – for our security and for our common security in this part of the world. With this in mind, Mr President, I would ask you to accept reservation 5.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-67	Mr President, I would like to Russia poses a military potential threat to Sweden. Everybody seems to agree on that in here. Then the question is how to deal with this. Is it a good idea to offer Swedish ports for the construction of Nordstream 2? That's my first question. My second question is: if you are against a supranational defence solution in the EU – is it good to vote in favour of a defence union in the European Parliament?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-69	Mr President, I would like to It's exciting to listen to Jeff Ahl. I can only agree with much of what Karin Enström said earlier: in this debate the Swedish democrats are probably a force on many legs – more legs than they themselves have. Perhaps some Russian bones come into the discussion, hidden by Nordstream or something else. With the nationalist extreme agenda that we could hear Jeff Ahl interpreting for in a previous conversation, I perceive that the Swedish Democrats are actually a security threat to us in Sweden. They do not have solutions, but they have threats to our common security. I heard a rhetoric that sounded very similar to the Russian one in the discussions on Libya and the Libyan operation, for example. I understand these days that this, with Russian connections, has its particular traces within the Swedish Democrats. We have also noticed this when we have seen how the Swedish Democrats are voting in the European Parliament. There they often vote in favour of the line that Russia is calling for. Mr President, I would like to From our side, we have been clear about the new situation for Nordstream 2. We believe that Sweden should have the capacity and legislation to deal with the safety side of this type of effort. We are now working actively to bring about legislation that allows us to have an opinion at national level on the actions of port companies.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-72	Mr President, I would like to I believe that Kerstin Lundgren is unofficial champion of this House in speaking without answering a single question. I'll give you that; that's good of you! I'll count my legs when I go away and sit down. I only have two, but obviously I might have more. I'll do the math and we'll see. I asked if it is a good idea to open up Swedish ports to build a Russian pipeline called Nordstream 2 that threatens our security. The port that was opened in Karlshamn voted your party to let go. You did not answer my question about the Defence Union and the vote in Parliament. Instead, you're talking about a lot of other things and insinuating things about me that aren't right. Kerstin Lundgren knows very well that it was our party that was the first to warn that Russia was building a capacity and had an agenda for starting a more imperialist policy. Then we were mocked. The Prime Minister who led the government of the Center Party called the defense a special interest and so on. Maybe the Center Party is projecting its Russian friendliness on us. It's very possible. You want to join NATO, where Turkey is a member – an authoritarian state. It may have something to do with it; the Center Party likes authoritarian constructions of various kinds. Russia is an authoritarian state, Turkey is an authoritarian state and the EU is an authoritarian building. The European Union has become an appropriate channel for you to pursue your globalist agenda, because when you conduct politics down in Brussels you can say one thing there and then say another thing here. In this way, you deceive the Swedish people. That's exactly what you keep doing when I don't get answers to my questions.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-77	Mr President, I would like to From our horizon and from the Center Party, we were clear that we felt that we had to ensure that we had legislation in place in order to take security policy into account. It is the state that must take this into account. It is not port companies or individual municipalities that conduct security policy. It's a national commitment. We therefore called for this type of initiative to be taken in order to get legislation in place. This work is currently under way, and it is important. We also ensured that Gotland and Slite, which were the most special port, did not become the Nordstream 2. It was done not because of a national position but because of regional decision-making. So it is clear that if we had the legislation in place, we would have argued to say no in both cases to Nordstream. Mr President, I would like to It's very clear. The Center Party rejects an EU army. On the other hand, we are saying 'yes' to cooperation also in the European Union in the field of defence because we know that it builds our common security. We are not like the Swedish Democrats – nationalists who fear the outside world and want to solve their anxiety problems or fears for the others by building walls, closing down and stopping. The only answers that the Swedish Democrats have to all questions, no matter what they are about: immigrants, close and stop so that we are ourselves. When I hear the arguments of the Swedish Democrats, Mr President, I hear an authoritarian solution.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-81	Mr President, I would like to Following the terrorist bombing in New York on 11 September 2001, the international community prepared for an operation in Afghanistan. The then Secretary-General of NATO, Jaap de Hoop Schefer, was then able to capture and define in a single sense the new, global, mutual security when he said: If we do not go to Afghanistan, Afghanistan will come to us. That is exactly how it is today. What is happening and which threatens the security of a corner of the world will soon threaten the security and stability of other parts of the world. Therefore, it is incredibly important that Sweden continues to be a strong and committed force for both military and civilian crisis management. We have had an evaluation of the long-standing effort that we took part in Afghanistan, and on many points there are reasons for self-criticism as to how we carried out our work – not so much perhaps with regard to the military elements as with the civilian and political elements. But the fact remains, Mr President. After almost a decade of Swedish presence in Afghanistan, hundreds of thousands of young Afghans, both boys and girls, have been educated. Medical care has been made available to the Afghan population. Economic growth has been strong. Although security in Afghanistan is now under pressure again, these are achievements and successes that we should remember. In this context, I would also like to thank all those people, Mr President, who have participated in crisis management operations on behalf of the Swedish State. This applies, of course, to military personnel, but it also applies to all civil servants who are making an international effort. It is about nurses, it is about fire soldiers and it is about police officers and officials from Lantmäteriet and more. I mention civil servants in particular, because they are not subject to special protection and a special right to assistance in the same way as military personnel have been doing since 2011. I find it very bad that the government does not strive to keep the protection, assistance and support of our civil servants in line with what applies to military personnel. Zaida Catalán was more or less alone far from honour and integrity and a functioning rule of law. She had a vulnerability that I would like to judge that Swedish soldiers do not meet on their campers. Nevertheless, civil servants do not have equivalent protection, and this should change. Mr President, I would like to In reservation 5, the Alliance develops the advantages of NATO membership. I often meet my political counterparts in Europe, and they sometimes dunk me in the back and say: You in Sweden are absolutely amazing! You are largely involved in all NATO efforts and are more NATO-adapted than several NATO countries, yet you do not want to join and have an influence in this association. Keep it up! Had we been members, we would automatically have had institutionalised influence in this organisation and in all the efforts we are taking part in together with NATO, which in principle is all in recent decades. It is also important to stress that, at the time of concern that we are living in, where we no longer only deal with crisis management in other countries, but also reflect on our own national defence and security, NATO membership means an incredible amount. Just as it says in reservation 5, there is no other individual measure that can be taken for Swedish purposes that provides such a strengthening of our national security. Sometimes, Mr President, in the media and elsewhere, it is said that Sweden's efforts to stay close to NATO, which takes the form of host country agreements, that we are gold-plated partners and that we participate in all NATO's various efforts, are a way for the present government and perhaps the Minister for Defence in particular to sneak into NATO. Then I would just like to say: Sweden cannot be sneaked into NATO no matter how hard you try. NATO is about transparency. It is a question of political decisions at the highest level. A bill to the Swedish Parliament will be required, a referendum may be required and accession procedures will be required. There's no sneaking through. To those who believe this, if you just stay close enough, you sneak in, I'd say, forget it. It is only membership that gives collective security and mutual defence guarantees and it is only membership that gives Sweden a strengthened national security. With that, Mr President, I would like to endorse Amendments Nos 5 and 9.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-92	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the government's letter Sweden's overall policy for international civilian and military crisis management and a lot of motions in this area. The government states in the letter that we live in a more troubled and uncertain world with an increased number of conflicts that also have a more direct impact on Sweden than before. Furthermore, the Government concludes that the demand for resources to deal with the world's crises is significantly greater than existing capacity. This is where the government is right. A Swedish contribution to increased stability in our absolute neighbourhood and the surrounding world naturally includes a palette of efforts with a focus on preventing wars and conflicts through, for example, support for democratic development, respect for human rights and freedoms, and a functioning judicial system. Today's debate focuses on dealing with the crises and conflicts we are surrounded by today. Let me start with the UN, Mr President. The UN is in many ways a unique organisation. No other organization brings together the world's states to work for peace, stabilisation and crisis management. One of the UN's most important tasks is to contribute to peace and security in our world. But it's an organization with big problems. Sweden is a member of the United Nations along with a number of multifaceted countries, many with a view to democracy and human rights that differ considerably from our own. It is therefore essential for the UN to speed up its reform efforts. The United Nations Charter of 1945 does not take into account the complex world we live in today. As a result, the Security Council, through the right of veto, is all too often faced with locks. Without a change that will enable the UN to intervene more effectively in conflicts and protect vulnerable groups, confidence in the UN will not last. The United States' new UN ambassador has taken a great deal of space in the debate on much-needed UN reform. Sweden also needs to do so. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats want strong action to prevent the large extent of sexual abuse in conflicts around the world. The reaction that Anders Compass was met with within the UN system when he sounded the alarm that peace-keeping soldiers committed sexual abuse of children in the Central African Republic is, of course, totally unacceptable. The fact that anyone acts as a whistleblower in accordance with his belief in what is morally right, in order for these terrible crimes to come to light, must never lead to anyone who acts being accused of having acted wrongly. However, the incident shows a UN culture whereby employees do not feel that they can act when they encounter errors or, as in this case, serious crime. This is an issue that must be prioritised within the framework of Swedish UN involvement. Another serious shortcoming in UN peacekeeping operations is all skills and resources problems. In order to tackle poor equipment and training levels, we need to be able to demand improved quality in order for international peace efforts to function satisfactorily. Mr President, I would like to As far as NATO is concerned, we share the government's assessment of increased cooperation with NATO. But we do not think it is enough. Since its creation in 1949, NATO has been a cornerstone of European security. NATO is based on Article 51 of the UN Charter on the right of each country to individual or collective self-defense in the event of an armed attack by another country. NATO can offer the security we cannot build ourselves. Through NATO, we can also provide countries that need it with our own skills, while at the same time being able to receive assistance in situations where we lack resources. The core of NATO cooperation is NATO's Article 5 on collective defence and the obligation of Member States to assist another Member State in an attack. NATO is an intergovernmental alliance in which decisions are taken by consensus. With the Russian aggression against Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014, NATO has regained its focus on collective defence and stresses the importance of being a member, as has also been emphasised in this debate, compared to being a partner country as Sweden is today. Only Member States can expect to benefit from the defence guarantees. Today, as I said, we choose to cooperate and rely to a large extent on NATO. At the same time, we choose to remain outside the decision-making process. We want the organization's help, and we want to help. But we do not want to be involved in controlling its development. In our alliance joint reservation, we therefore stress that NATO is the defence cooperation that can seriously enhance our defence capabilities, increase stability in our neighbourhood and ultimately strengthen Sweden's security. The bilateral cooperation, without common defence guarantees, established by the government with individual NATO countries is not sufficient. We believe that Sweden should deepen its cooperation with NATO and promote Swedish accession. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 5. Our society, like most societies in the world, is becoming increasingly dependent on information technology. We are seeing an increasing number, both successful and unsuccessful, attempts by states and organisations that want to influence the affairs of other states. Sweden was recently adopted as a member of NATO Cooperative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence. We welcome this. On the other hand, there is a problem with taking care of the skills we will now acquire through participation. In Sweden, six authorities have one of the government's appointed responsibilities for cybersecurity. These authorities are part of the Information Security Cooperation Group. The Christian Democrats believe that Swedish cyber security should be brought together under one roof, partly in order to take home and gather the skills of NATO, and partly in order to be able to have a better overview and demand responsibility in a sharp situation. Mr President, I would like to The European Union is the most important security policy arena. The EU has broad opportunities to build security through diplomacy, mediation and conflict prevention as well as confidence building measures as well as national civilian, police and military capabilities. As far as military capabilities are concerned, the EU is currently facing an important stage with new steps towards closer intergovernmental cooperation. We debated the future defence of the European Union in this House last week. In the near future, Mr Pesco will also be debated. That is why I choose not to go into that cooperation now. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I believe that at this time of major international challenges, Sweden should be a strong player who assumes its responsibility to strive for international peace, security and development. Our participation in civilian and military crisis management is important. With the instability that prevails, not only far away but also in our direct neighbourhood, more international cooperation is required. Increased support for peace and security promotion is therefore a necessity at a time of international concern. It is therefore of great importance that Sweden continues to contribute to both established and new efforts in peace promotion, security promotion and conflict prevention activities within NATO, the EU, the UN and the OSSE.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-109	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is probably the country or at least one of the countries that has seen the population have contributed most people to civilian and, above all, military crisis response around the world from the UN's formation onward. Sweden is an active contributor to both civilian and military crisis management. These debates often focus on precisely military crisis management. However, I think that Allan Widman made it a good point that a large part of the activity is about civilians. To be honest, we should pay more attention to it. Sweden contributes with women and men to international efforts in international service organised by the UN, NATO, the EU and various coalitions of countries. The actions are carried out at the invitation of countries. It is important that we continue to do so, not only to contribute to security but also to increase our own security. We shall continue to participate in international efforts, out of solidarity with other countries and people, but also out of self-interest. By increasing security in the world, we are also increasing security here at home in Sweden. We contribute to a rule-based world order. For a small country like Sweden, it is important that such a world order exists, that it is followed and that it is maintained. We'll keep doing that. And it is precisely a rule-based world order that we want to continue to spread throughout the world. In all such works, both civil and military, Sweden should be a driving force for respect for human rights. The same applies to respect for women's rights and participation in society and the resolution of conflicts, as well as respect for the principles of the rule of law. That is ultimately why we are in the middle of international action, be they civilian or military. These are the values we stand for and want to spread in the world. Then those values must also characterise the actions. I think Sofia Damm pointed that out very well in the past. Those who implement these efforts must also adhere to the fundamental values that we want to support and disseminate. And those who violate them must be punished. This is why it is important for Sweden, as the government also points out in its letter, to both encourage and protect whistleblowers in various international efforts. It is about those who sound the alarm about the personal abuse of the people they are actually sending to help. It is behaviour that can never be accepted or tolerated. As I said at the outset, much of the debate on civilian and military operations is focused precisely on the military. That is what gets the most media attention and the most attention in our political discussions. It's no wonder. There is great drama behind sending women and men on international missions. They are sent armed into perhaps the worst of troubles with an obvious risk to their own lives. It is no wonder that it generates the most debate. But let us also remember all those who are involved in civilian operations and who are also often at risk of their lives and security. We may not always talk about that enough. It is important that we coordinate the civilian and military efforts. This coordination must be strengthened, because it is in this way that we can, among other things, increase the security of the staff involved, whether they do so in civilian or military terms. The basis for all our participation, and it has always been important for Sweden, is that there should be support in international law. It is something that must also mark all our participation in future efforts, and it is something that we are careful to try out here in the Riksdag every time we decide in the Riksdag that Sweden will participate in international efforts. One of the first and most important questions then is: What support is there in international law for this effort? To conclude, Mr President, I would like to support the Committee on Foreign Affairs' proposal in report 8.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-119	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by saying that I think Kenneth G. Forslund had many points in his speech, not least when he touched on the civilian efforts. That prompts me to ask you a question. I suppose Kenneth G. Forslund is aware that we have a law that applies to military personnel and that provides extra assistance and extra support in various ways, not only to the soldier who makes a contribution but also to his relatives. For some years now, there has been a proposal from a public investigation that equivalent protection should also be provided for civilian personnel. In this context, Mr President, I would like to briefly tell you that a few years ago I was at a seminar where a number of nurses who had travelled from Sweden to help in the Ebola epidemic in western Africa spoke about their experiences. They go down more or less alone and go to their station, and they are often exposed to almost the same risks and health hazards as our soldiers and are as strongly affected by what they have experienced. That is why I would like to ask Kenneth G. Forslund whether he is willing to contribute to the implementation of this kind of legislation. It's about fair terms in a labour market, let alone international, for Swedish staff. Then I cannot help noticing that a few years ago Kenneth G. Forslund stated in an interview in the Hufvudstadsbladet in Finland that he lacked Social Democrats who were in favour of NATO membership and that he wants to see and hear more of them in the party. I wonder what prompted that statement. Finally, I would like to recall my desire to approve reservation 9.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-124	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to Allan Widman for the questions! Allan Widman himself has been most instrumental in developing how we actually take greater responsibility for military personnel during and after their efforts and usually in various debates here in Parliament, at seminars and other events, to return to the fact that it would be reasonable to develop support also for civilian staff. I share that view, and if there is anything we can do to help each other in order to bring something like that forward, I am happy to contribute to it. I think it is important that all staff involved in international operations, as well as their relatives, receive support both during and after the operation. Support has been improved in recent years for military personnel. It can certainly be even better, but there is definitely also reason to follow on from the civilian staff. The statement I made in the Hufvudstadsbladet and which Allan Widman has picked up is a statement that I have made not only there but in different contexts. My experience is that internal debate makes it possible to develop the arguments and develop their knowledge, so it is in fact for this people-forming purpose that I tend to point out in various contexts that it would be good if there were also Social Democrats who clearly believed that joining NATO would be positive. It should be remembered that the Social Democrats are a relatively large and broad party. Of course, if we are to be honest, there are those who think this is good. I do not share the view that Sweden should join NATO, but I believe that for the tension and clarity of the arguments and the debate it would be good internally and populous. Unfortunately, I have to say that I have not seen more or more organised NATO advocates after that interview.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-128	Mr President, I would like to Kenneth G. Forslund refers to the argument of peoples' education, and as hopefully a good liberal, I fully understand it. It is by breaking opinions in the debate that our knowledge and know-how and our skills are being developed. Mr President, I would like to I have been sitting in something called Sweden's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly for almost a decade, and I have never been able to help but wonder at the fact that every time that really renowned representatives of the Social Democrats come into the field of defence and security, this is a body that you immediately place yourself in – you may be named Peter Hultqvist, Håkan Juholt or Urban Ahlin. I therefore understand that there is a difficulty in getting that debate going in full as Kenneth G. Forslund now wishes and that there are other signals that mark the importance of, for example, the NATO defence alliance. I listen carefully to what Kenneth G. Forslund says about civil servants who have made contributions internationally, and I can assure him that there will be more occasions already this parliamentary year with opportunities for him to contribute to this.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-132	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Allan Widman! I can only say that I, too, am now included in the list of Socialist participants in the work of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and the Swedish delegation. It is, of course, the case that Sweden cooperates closely with NATO. It is important for us to follow what is happening in NATO. It definitely contributes to our knowledge and to our ability. That Sweden would be part of NATO, part of an organisation that bases its strategic planning on the possession of nuclear weapons by some Member States – there is the limit on my part. This is just to respond briefly to what Allan Widman was talking about, that is, how you can stand so close to NATO without wanting to join NATO. That's where the line goes for me.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-135	Mr President, I would like to I'll continue where Allan Widman left off. The Social Democrats have a rather ambivalent attitude to how to relate to different defence cooperations, I think, and it is not clear that Kenneth G. Forslund is making this kind of statement, which suggests that there may be some internal friction in the Social Democratic Party. I don't really know how to interpret that. My questions are becoming quite concrete. After all, we have a very far-reaching defence cooperation with Finland, where it has been suggested that Sweden may very well come to Finland's help if they are attacked. Firstly, I would like to know at what point this could happen. When could we help them? As far as NATO is concerned, I would like to know: is it the case that the Social Democrats are swinging on the NATO issue? Is that the interpretation of various statements and approaches to NATO? I think it is quite dangerous to have an unclear approach that opens up different interpretations around the world, where there are different interests. In fact, that is the way things are in the world. Different major powers have different interests, which is why I think it is very important for a small country like Sweden to be very clear where you stand. Is this what you're for? Is it against? What's the deal? Unfortunately, I do not feel that the Social Democrats are sufficiently clear.
i-P8PB5ZUMy96ieT7SHqorwR	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jeff Ahl, for the questions! If Jeff Ahl is looking for an inner tear in the Social Democrats in Sweden on the NATO issue, he will probably need to develop a sharp microscope, which possibly makes the few Social Democratic NATO advocates a little sad. That says a lot about how many they are and have turned out to be so far. There is no such inner wear. Unfortunately, there is too little debate. More debate would be useful for reasons of public education. I travel around a lot in the Socialist Party organisation in the country, and there is a strong perception throughout the Social Democratic Party from the members right up to the Prime Minister that Sweden should not join NATO. It is not a Social Democratic wish. There is no indication of any future swing on the NATO issue on the part of the Social Democrats. Then there was defence cooperation with Finland. Yes, we are in a process where we cooperate more and more with each other. Even without this cooperation, Sweden has issued a declaration of solidarity stating that, in the event of any of our neighbours being attacked, we will help to defend them or support them. We expect them to give us the same help in the event that Sweden would somehow be attacked or threatened. Exactly how this is to be done cannot be answered until the unfortunate day – preferably never – such an attack occurs. Then we must formulate the answer. But before that, it's just speculation.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-143	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, Kenneth G. Forslund, I did not know much better about that answer. You have to be clear about what you want to be when you talk about what fate should look like or how it should be designed, it just becomes unclear. Forslund's talking about maybe we should help. But with what and how? It must have been investigated before. There is also talk of declarations of solidarity. It is similar to what exists in NATO. In principle, then, we have abandoned what the Social Democrats hold high, namely freedom of alliance – in actual importance, but still not. This is what's strange. You communicate one thing but act differently politically, just as we have discussed earlier today. The attitude towards NATO is ambivalent. Not least the host country agreement shows that Sweden is halfway into NATO. Sweden should therefore be able to receive assistance from NATO in order for NATO to group its military units here in the event of a conflict. Linking this to the declarations of solidarity that have been lifted up, many of our neighbours being members of NATO, makes it difficult to understand it in any other way than that Sweden is halfway into NATO – but not yet. Unfortunately, we have been told by the Socialist Government that we are naive in this, this and that issue. I say that on these issues we can afford to be naive only once. There can be extreme consequences if we are not clear on the issues. Sweden is not. In particular, the Social Democrats bear the greatest responsibility.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-148	Mr President, I would like to I take it that Jeff Ahl did not understand the answer to the question of defence cooperation with Finland, but that he nevertheless understood the answer about the attitude of the Social Democrats towards NATO. There was the question of Sweden's declaration of solidarity and the help we are going to give to countries that may be affected by a crisis or conflict. It is, of course, possible to draw up long lists of possible scenarios, and from those lists we can make equally long lists of how we might possibly be able to respond. I think the real thing is that we have to deal with that situation on the day it arises, and preferably it will never happen. The declaration of intent that we are prepared to help our neighbours is important. Our expectation of help is also important. But it remains that, if it happens that we don't want to happen, in that situation, we will decide how to respond. So there is not a given answer in advance that Sweden should respond militarily. There is an important difference between being a member of NATO and the declarations of solidarity. NATO's solidarity is based on Member States responding militarily to an attack. That is the automaticity which is also a reason why I, as a Social Democrat, do not want Sweden to be part of NATO, that is to say, to give us freedom of action. I do not agree with Jeff Ahls's description of what the host country agreement is about. The host country agreement is about how things are going to happen, not what's going to happen. What is to happen, what personnel, what equipment and so on that is to come here, should always be decided for every occasion that NATO is to appear here. That is also what is happening.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-151	Mr President, I would like to No man is an island. No country is an island. It is so good that there are seven parties in Sweden's parliament who really stand up for multilateralism, who stand up because we need to cooperate. The fact that we then do not want to join NATO because we think it is wrong, or that the Alliance and the bourgeoisie want to join NATO because they think it is right, is another matter. What makes me afraid is the Swedish Democrats' recurring view that we should commit svexit, should not cooperate and should close our borders. The nationalism of the Swedish Democrats is dangerous. It is also the vision we see around the world – in Poland, Hungary and the United States. The most important thing we can do today is to ensure that we cooperate between countries, that we protect multilateralism, that we counteract shrinking space. Here, my friends, the Green Party thinks it is the UN that should be the most important player. The UN should be the hub of peace. Of course, there are things we have to work with at the UN. Sweden is now on the Security Council and can make a historic difference by including climate issues in the discussion of security policy aspects when resolutions are to be drafted. It's revolutionary, my friends! Sweden can point out in the Security Council that women must be part of the process of negotiating peace after a conflict has ended and in the work on how society should be built up. We do not want to shut out 50% of the world's population. Then there will be no lasting peace, and it will not be a sustainable society. That, my friends, is important. We need to work more on human security issues. There the UN has used the mechanism to p rotect. It can be used when states cannot go in and protect their own population but rather counteracts that work, such as al-Asad-Assad in Syria. The UN should be able to decide that the international community has an obligation to enter and protect the population of that country. We need to work on these issues more internationally. Mr President, I would like to Sweden makes very important contributions to curbing and preventing international crises and conflicts, promoting security in the best sense of the word and strengthening the principles of democracy and the rule of law. Ultimately, it is about preventing the worst crimes we know of: genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes, ethnic cleansing, systematic rape of women and the exploitation of children. When we talk about international civilian and military crisis management, we should remind ourselves that this is what it is all about, and that sometimes also requires military action. This work has a clear value in itself: the value of providing solidarity to other vulnerable countries and other vulnerable people, of alleviating distress and suffering. But it is also important for Sweden's own security in the intertwined world we live in, for internal and external security. Mr President, I would like to At the moment, the most extensive humanitarian crisis has taken place since the UN was formed. 20 million people in Nigeria and South Sudan, in the Horn of Africa and Yemen are at risk of starvation. A complex world and a complex combination of conflict and drought have contributed to the situation. Around the world, 135 million people need humanitarian aid today. It is astoundingly four times more than in 2010. It is an extremely serious situation, and as a prosperous country it is Sweden's duty to help people in these situations. Needs are growing, because the number of wars and conflicts in the world is increasing today. Human rights, democracy and the rule of law are more threatened than for a long time. We have a deteriorating security policy situation in our neighbourhood too. This applies not least to Russian aggression in Ukraine. And even now we are seeing what a changed climate will mean. We don't have a week without new alarm reports on extreme weather events. All of this drives instability and uncertainty and affects Sweden through migratory flows and weaker world economies when trade fails and many years of development gains in poor countries fail due to wars and natural disasters. Mr President, I would like to Today's challenges and threats to our security are changing, borderless and complex, as Foreign Minister Wallström recently described it. They therefore demand, firstly, a broader concept of security capable of capturing both military and non-military threats and putting human security at the centre. Secondly, they demand the international cooperation that we are talking about here today. Building security together with others has long been a core element of Swedish security policy, and today, as global challenges increase, the international community's cooperation needs to be strengthened and deepened. Here we must work preventively and with early warning to get in as early as possible, before crises and wars arise and become acute. Mr President, I would like to Against this background, I am proud of what Sweden is doing to counter violent spirals, repression and conflicts and proud of the government's priorities. I would like to highlight four areas that I see as particularly important for our continued work: multilateralism, peace-building, climate as a security threat and gender equality and feminist foreign policy. With regard to multilateralism, Sweden has a long tradition of inter-folk interaction and participation in international efforts to promote security and peace. The Green Party's view is that the UN, but also the EU, are the main arenas for strengthening peaceful and secure global development. Therefore, Sweden will continue to be a strong international player who participates actively in these organisations and in the work within the EU. When it comes to peace building, Sweden has a long tradition of being a force for peace promotion in the world, not least through the UN. This tradition continues and is reinforced by the efforts of the Red Green Government, because we know that without peace there will be no development and vice versa. That is why we are increasing support for peace-building and state-building with a focus on failing and conflict-affected states. That is why we have set up a new secretariat at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs with a long-term commitment to mediation and peace processes. That is why we are developing new strategies for countries such as Sudan and Somalia in the light of the political situation in these countries and the drought and famine that have hit them. When it comes to climate: A warmer world is a global security threat. It is time for us to relate to the fact that this is the case. It is not just something we say; it is indeed so. It is not a single environmental issue or a special interest that some parties on the green edge run. Climate change can exacerbate existing security threats, as we have already seen. Take the food and energy crisis in 2008. Before the crisis broke out, food prices had risen by 83%. It had to do with several factors, but a warmer and drier climate in the Middle East was an important factor. Syria experienced its worst drought in modern times between 2007 and 2010. Local and regional food production was under severe pressure and, as we know, communities with food and water shortages are more vulnerable to tensions and conflicts. What we are seeing today is probably going to be seen in the eerie magnification of the future. Research shows that shocks such as our food production have been exposed to about one hundred years as a result of extreme weather can occur every thirty years over the next few decades. Mr President, I would like to Women and children tend to be the most vulnerable in conflicts and need targeted support through our international efforts. Women need to be involved in the peace process, as I have mentioned before, and we need to protect women on the ground. There are clear links between gender equality and the resilience of countries to conflict, according to research. That is why our work on international crisis management must have a clear gender perspective. That is why, among other things, our feminist foreign policy is so important. I therefore call for the motion in the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs to be approved.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-172	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by saying that I am a very proud nationalist, because as a nationalist I think of the people I represent and the security and security that I am set to give it. In fact, it is our mission here in the Swedish Parliament – to protect the security and safety of our own people in the first place. Then, of course, we will help others too, but we must not forget what our main mission is. We want to cooperate with others. I don't know how many times I've said that now. I have mentioned the UN. Although there are of course criticisms to also target the UN, the UN is the least bad option we have. I and my party think that we should develop many different collaborations in the Nordic countries and deepen them in different directions depending on which Nordic country we are talking about. But it must be difficult for Pernilla Stålhammar and the Green Party that they had to have our support to vote through the border controls that were set up. It must have been perceived as a deep betrayal by your constituents because you advocate more or less limitlessness. This is how it is, Pernilla Stålhammar: I would rather have border protection that protects our children from the violence we now see out in the suburbs of Sweden. Children have died in bombings. Children have died from shootings, and the weapons used have been smuggled across a completely unguarded border because of globalists, such as Pernilla Stålhammar and the Green Party in particular. I think it should be understood that it is quite responsible for the Green Party and others to pay 39 1⁄2 billion next year to continue to have a wide-open border for terrorists and criminals, weapons and drugs, which everyone knows what it is hitting: the safety of our children.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-177	Mr President, I would like to Oh, I get goose bumps of anxiety and dismay when I hear Jeff Ahl speak so brown in the Swedish Parliament. They're all being pulled over a comb. Everyone who comes in is a terrorist, claims Jeff Ahl. It's not like that. They're running away from terrorists. If we look at the Metoo movement now, what are we looking to come up with? Well, it's not that asylum seekers are the ones who abuse others. It is just a myth that you want to cultivate in every way in order to close the borders and drive the extremely brown nationalism that you pursue in the Swedish Parliament, and I am very sorry that you do. When it comes to closing the borders: No, we in the Green Party want more migration. We largely believe in open borders. We believe in working together within the EU. But here Europe really must come to an agreement and assume its responsibilities. We believe that, in fact, it will be possible to be penalised in different ways if we do not help to meet the conditions laid down for cooperation within the EU, for example by withdrawing structural funds if we do not accept a certain quota of refugees. We also believe that we need to help women and girls more in this context.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-181	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party flaunts in general order with unscientific arguments. There are a lot of reports showing the over-representation of many immigrant groups in sexual crimes. I suggest that the honourable Member read them. Once again, it must have been a real sting in the spirit of the environmental party when you had to take our support to establish border controls because of the naive policy you have pursued. It shows that we've been right all along. But continue, Pernilla Stålhammar, to stand up for the policy of transferring 39 1⁄2 billion to the EU next year to pay for dismantled border protection, which means that weapons, drugs and criminals flow freely across borders and impair the safety of our children. You get to stand for that policy, and I stand for mine; that's exactly how it's supposed to work. When we then talk about international cooperation, it must also have been very difficult for an environmental party to go from representing a party whose policy was on non-violent defence to agreeing to a host country agreement with NATO, the USA and others, which means that nuclear weapons states may group military units on Swedish soil in the event of a major power conflict. In this way, we want to make Sweden a frontline in such a conflict. I believe that many environmentalist voters find it very difficult to understand how the Green Party has taken a stand. Then it is to be welcomed that the Green Party was so kind and gave us the right position on border controls. After all, we were not late in giving our support on this issue, and that was obviously necessary.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-186	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, Jeff Ahl, I'm a proud globalist, and I was born that way. I'm a citizen of the world. That's it. No one is worth more than anyone else in this world, no matter where in the world or in life you are, but Jeff Ahl thinks so. You are referring to statistics that may appear in your feed on Facebook or on something you have heard. Now we can talk about misinformation, with your clear links to Russia. We have seen time and again that you are crossing those limits. I would argue that in that case you are being reached by the wrong information, because it is not true that there is an over-representation there. It only serves the interests of Jeff Ahls and Russia to create this division in Sweden. As far as you would have helped us close the borders, every environmental party out there and everyone else also know that that is not true, of course. We didn't want to close the borders. We've been very clear about that. I have to say that we would somehow have been helped by the Swedish Democrats to close the borders is ridiculous. In fact, it was about the fact that there was a majority in the Swedish Parliament who thought differently from us. Nothing could be done about the constellations we have in the Swedish Parliament today. We have a choice ahead of us, and we hope for another result then.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-190	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Pernilla for raising the issue of climate change, as well as other speakers who spoke about feminism, women's right to a free life, the fight against sexual abuse, the civilian efforts that Sweden has taken part in and how Sweden can contribute to global work for peace. I would also like to mention the important efforts made by Swedes outside Sweden for global peace. But we are facing climate change that will change the earth. Millions of people will have to flee within the next few decades. We will see drowned Pacific states, flooded houses in poor and rich countries, storms blowing away the accumulated wealth of a family in minutes and melting of glaciers in Asia that affect all the rivers that billions of people there depend on for their lives and their daily lives. Old dictatorships and other regimes that have become dependent on fossil resources will lose their power, and what innocent will they bring with them in the case? New conflicts will be built around the resources we have to combat climate change. These include, for example, the pursuit of lithium on Tibet's high plateaus and the struggle for water with the indigenous peoples of Argentina and Chile. Why are we talking so little about the economic system, which is the cause of all these conflicts that we are constantly trying to resolve? Why not do something about the root cause, namely that the constant pursuit of more growth and more resources by the current economy creates increased gaps and conflicts? It weakens the credibility of an otherwise interesting report that we do not raise these issues sufficiently. Even the criticism of nuclear weapons shines with its absence. Nuclear weapons are mentioned only once, and it is in Moderate motion. Their opinion is that we should not have a global nuclear ban. But nuclear weapons are incompatible with democracy. In all wars, the rulers have been limited in their warlike operations by the risk of civil revolt in the trenches or among civilian counter-forces. However, with nuclear weapons, the decision-making power over the death of millions of people is transferred to the hand of a single president or to a few people who can execute millions of innocent people in minutes. No one is given the chance to protest or discuss until the missiles are in the air with their deadly cargo. The country in which you live will forever be recorded in the history books as guilty of the greatest crime in history against humanity through the complete destruction of other countries. But there is no time for discussion or thought, often not even to examine whether the reasons behind the decision were based on correct information. The fact that the risks of autonomous deadly weapons systems are not included is, I think, a pity, because here Sweden could help stop new weapons systems so that they do not develop for killings that are not subject to human responsibility and human decisions. More on this is available in my motion 2017/ 18:2655, which, however, is not dealt with in this report. Finally, I would like to mention Pesco. The EU would build peace, and many were surprised by Article 42(3) of the Treaty of Lisbon, which states that the Member States commit themselves to increasing their military capabilities – the only constitution in democratic countries that require armament. Many ministers and others then explained that cooperation would be intergovernmental and that the wording on defence capabilities simply meant that we would coordinate arms purchases and get more bang for the money. But now that we, as one of 23 countries, are joining here, without public debate really, we are signing up to regularly increasing the defence budget in real terms in order to achieve the objectives. More material is to be purchased and more research is to be carried out, but there is nothing to say that we should not allow nuclear weapons in the forces to be part of the Defence Union. Instead, I think that Sweden should take responsibility for ensuring that the EU implements its 1999 decision on civilian intervention forces. Here we could be a leader instead of being the 23rd wheel under a military steamroller. The greatest benefit we make as a single place for dialogue and conflict resolution: a country where others can converse with each other. NATO already has many times more military capabilities than any other group on earth. We are doing more good by building up civilian crisis management, ourselves and with the EU, than as a small cog in NATO.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-202	Mr President, I would like to This report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Swedish Maritime Territory and Maritime Zones is one of the more basic printed matter that has reached the House in recent years. No one except the undersigned has signed up to speak on the report. However, I feel it is important to say that this report has no small political significance. The Government's proposal will, in addition to the Swedish maritime territory, establish an adjacent zone of another 12 nautical miles. Within this neighbouring zone, which is established under the provisions of the Convention on the Law of the Sea, Sweden has a certain sovereignty in the area of crime in, for example, the environment and in the area of tax law, migration and some other similar subjects. Mr President, I would like to This gives Sweden and Swedish authorities a reason to be present in a larger area of the Baltic Sea than we have been so far. During several debates today, we have witnessed a deterioration in the world environment, too, in our vicinity. Let me say that in the current situation in the world, it is a good thing that white spots, areas in the Baltic Sea that are unchecked or out of control, are not left out of control. It is well even the case that the neighbouring zones now being established for Sweden will affect some of the important infrastructure projects that were partly concerned in the previous debate. Both Nord Stream 1 and Nord Stream 2 will have a stretch within the Swedish neighbouring zone. It underlines the importance of this, not least from the point of view of security policy.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-206	Mr President, I would like to Since the early 2000s, the EU has been negotiating Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs) with African, Caribbean and Pacific countries. The original aim of the agreements was to integrate those countries into the world economy, thereby promoting sustainable development and helping to eradicate poverty. It is now the case that since the start of the negotiations, the agreements have received massive criticism from civil society, small farmers, industry and politicians both in the ACP countries and in the EU. The main criticism has been that the agreements favour the interests of the EU in particular, are not designed to meet the development needs of the ACP countries and lead to an increased focus on raw materials exports. According to previous estimates by the International Monetary Fund, 8-12 percent of government revenue in African countries is estimated to disappear as a result of EPA agreements. Concerns about agreements to knock out local production in ACP countries, opening up more opportunities for multinationals to exploit natural resources and leading to the loss of important income for developing countries have thus been partly justified. The EPA agreements contain several problematic elements. They risk destroying local production and regional trade and undermining development efforts in the ACP countries. They also limit the scope for action for ACP countries through the restrictive use of quantitative import restrictions or export taxes to promote local production and development. In the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Sadc Contracting States, of the other part, the Government proposes that the Parliament approve the EPA Agreement between the EU and the Sadc Contracting States. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party is not opposed to trade or to the signing of trade agreements with poor countries. Trade based on fair and equitable trade rules is one of several important instruments for economic development and poverty reduction. However, we are opposed to global trade as it is often conducted today, on unfair terms and with an unfair distribution of the profits generated by trade. Unfair trade conditions and unequal opportunities to participate in the world economy are some of the key explanations that our world is still so unequal and that the gaps between and within countries in large parts of the world continue to grow. Trade policy must therefore pursue development policy objectives and be consistent with global development policy. During the EPA negotiations, the EU has on several occasions used threats of less favourable conditions for those who do not sign them within a given timeframe. Of the 15 States included in Sadc, only six have signed the Agreement. In addition to the fact that it says some of the beneficiaries of the agreement, the EU's actions risk leading to fragmentation within the Sadc and weakening the Contracting Sadc States in possible conflicts with the EU regarding the interpretation of the agreement. In practice, the agreement for Sweden becomes an agreement with South Africa, the most economically developed Sadc state, which accounts for a major part of the contracting countries' trade with the EU. The interests of the other countries are therefore in danger of becoming weak in negotiations against the interests of the EU and South Africa. A further problem with the agreement is the lack of transparency. Good transparency in the implementation and application of the agreement is a prerequisite for reviewing compliance with it, for civil society to be able to live up to its role of accountability and for the populations of the states concerned to be able to hold their powers accountable. Another clear lack of transparency concerns the dispute solution. The agreement allows the parties to a dispute to agree not to publish it. The lawsuit and judicial process take place in a so-called arbitration tribunal outside the national legal system. The parties each appoint their lawyer, who together appoints a third lawyer. There are three private lawyers, therefore, who pass judgment in this type of case. Transparency is in most cases very limited. We in the Left Party believe that disputes should be settled in more transparent forms in existing national courts. Both the right and the business community tend to defend the secret negotiation process that characterises the negotiations on international trade agreements. Their main argument is that openness, transparency and dialogue hamper the negotiation process. The Left Party is of the opinion that this argument does not hold true. We believe that the lack of transparency, transparency and dialogue in negotiations on international trade agreements is a serious democracy problem. These kinds of negotiations, which fundamentally affect the citizens of the contracting states, must take place in a way in which citizens, popular movements, researchers and elected politicians are involved and given the opportunity to respond, express criticism and make proposals. Another problem with the agreement is that the levels of protection of human, animal or plant life or health and the levels of protection of national treasures of artistic, historical or archaeological value and exhausting natural resources are insufficient. The safeguards contained in the agreement are vague and run the risk of giving way to economic interests. We have seen it many times in history, and this agreement looks to risk it again. Mr President, I would like to The fact that the ACP countries and the Sadc Contracting States involved in this case are fully involved in global political and economic cooperation is, of course, a positive thing, but it must be done on fair and, in some cases, compensatory terms. The EPA agreements as they stand today do not meet those requirements; not all compete on the same terms. That is why the Left Party is calling for a rejection of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Sadc Contracting States, of the other part. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-217	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating an Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and six of the countries of the Southern African Development Community, Sadc, on the other. The EPA aims to support trade, regional integration and the gradual integration of the Sadc States into world trade. It also aims to promote sustainable development in the region. Sweden already stands for an open and fair, free trade policy. Free trade, when responsible, is one of the cornerstones of growth and employment in Sweden and in other parts of the world. Free trade can be a strong wealth-creating force both for the world's poorest countries and for the more developed. There has long been broad support in Parliament for the view that free trade is fundamentally a positive thing that can lead to increased prosperity and that it is therefore an important principle to protect. The overall objective of the agreement is to eradicate poverty in the long term by establishing a trade partnership consistent with the objective of sustainable development. The Agreement shall also promote economic cooperation and good governance by establishing a transparent and predictable regulatory framework for trade and investment at regional level. The free trade agreement must not lead to reduced ambitions in terms of health, the environment, animal welfare and safety. The Agreement confirms each Party's right to determine its own domestic level of environmental protection and protection of workers, recognising the inadequacy of promoting trade or investment by weakening or reducing domestic levels of protection. In addition, the Parties reaffirm their commitments with regard to multilateral environmental agreements and ILO conventions which they have ratified. The Partnership Agreement is a development oriented trade agreement aimed at promoting trade and regional integration, liberalising trade and increasing trade. With this in mind, I would like to support the proposal for the agreement contained in the Foreign Affairs Committee's report No 6.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-223	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I am going to focus on what is different in this report. The market economy combined with democracy and the support of trade is what has created our prosperity. That is why I think it is very positive that, with this agreement, the European Union is now allowing a number of poor countries in southern Africa to tread the same path of development that Sweden has been on for a few centuries. We live in a time when resistance to global trade appears in the most unexpected places. From the White House in the United States it can from a source that normally speaks for free trade today sound like this: And now in the chamber that is probably one of the world's most free trade-friendly chambers, this was in some disguised terms in the Left Party's reservation. It sounded kind of like, "I'm not, but." ..................................................... I fully respect the concerns expressed by Yasmine Posio Nilsson in her speech. At the same time, it is very important in these times, when the ugly face of protectionism shows so long, that we are careful ourselves that we do not fall into that trap. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-228	It's time for Question Time. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions will be answered by Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström, Minister for Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke and Minister of State Peter Eriksson. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-230	Madam President, I would like I intend to ask a question to Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson. In a debate with me in Agenda a few weeks ago, Peter Eriksson said that his job as Minister of Housing is to ensure that the municipalities assume their responsibility for building. The Minister for Housing has also explained in a number of other contexts how he views his own and the municipalities' responsibility for the housing supply programme. Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that the main responsibility of a Minister for Housing is to facilitate the responsibility of municipalities to assume their housing responsibilities. One of Sweden's municipalities and County Councils has stated that state regulations and regulations are the main obstacle to construction.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-233	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, even if it came late! I am very pleased that today we have a large housing building – much larger than in previous governments. It helps to reduce the housing shortage that has been increasing for a long time, and the government has taken a series of measures to ensure that this can happen. Housing responsibility lies at the heart of municipalities, but the government can support them in many different ways. I try to do this by supporting the municipalities' efforts to make it easier and faster to build. We set aside quite a lot of resources in the state budget to contribute to the municipal work in this area, for example with the municipal bonus. We also have investment aid that makes it easier to build at reasonable costs.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-236	Madam President, I would like The housing crisis should be dealt with, not commented on. It is quite remarkable that the minister who bears the primary responsibility for building more homes in Sweden is more concerned with commenting and reviewing. I would like to ask once again whether the government will take any steps whatsoever to make it easier for the municipalities and not just to comment on this. If yes, what measures will the government take? They have been absent so far during their term of office, Madam President, which is totally untenable.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-238	Madam President, I would like It seems to me that it is Mats Green who is concerned with commenting and reviewing. I would suggest that before he does it next time take a look around Sweden to see what it looks like. It looks like this: We have construction cranes in almost every city. There is extensive work going on; we have not built so many homes in Sweden since the 1970s. I'm very happy and proud of it. It is largely a question of having the municipalities – both officials and politicians – become more involved, but the state is also doing its part.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-242	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. In 2015, Magdalena Andersson announced that the costs of the increased reception of refugees would be covered by savings in areas such as assistance. This statement, together with the regulation letter to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to break the trend in the number of hours within the assistance allowance, has gone from signal policy to actually tearing up some people's lives. The government is now claiming that it has listened to the victims and that a new bill should therefore be drawn up as a matter of urgency, which I think is a good thing. The fact remains, however, that one creates a problem and then, in the election movement, one claims to have solved the same problem. My question is therefore this: is Magdalena Andersson still behind the priority that refugee reception costs should be covered by savings in assistance, among other things, or has she and the government finally understood that this was a total mispriority?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-247	Madam President, I would like The history of Carina Ståhl Herrstedt is not correct. Long before the refugee crisis in 2015, the government worked to control the development of costs in a number of systems where costs increased. These included health insurance and assistance payments. This was due to the long-term increase in costs and the difficulty of explaining why costs had increased. As a responsible government, we therefore looked at what happened in these areas. Then came the refugee crisis in 2015. It did not stop us from working on these areas. On the other hand, we did a historical rescheduling of migration policy, and the government has now saved SEK 100 billion on this rescheduling. It is important to point out that the government has not taken any decisions that reduce the right to assistance. On the other hand, we are chasing the cheating, and we have made a change in the timschablon count that used to apply. But we have made no changes to the right to assistance.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-250	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. The writing of the story can be discussed, but the fact remains that the Minister for Finance has made a statement that the costs of receiving refugees should be covered by savings in health insurance and personal assistance, among other things. That is a statement. In addition, the government budget states that the number of users with assistance compensation during the year is estimated to decrease by 540 people. This does not therefore apply to the number of hours, but to the number of people who actually receive assistance payments.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-253	Madam President, I would like No, Carina Ståhl Herrstedt – there are no such quotes from me, because I have not said this. However, we have previously worked with these areas, and we did not stop working with them in autumn 2015. What Carina Ståhl Herrstedt says is simply not correct. What has happened is that there have been a number of judgments, and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is now applying these rules. The government has said that we will quickly come up with a special law to stop the effects of these judgments and ensure that everyone in need of assistance will receive the support they are entitled to.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-256	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Foreign Minister Wallström. Recently, Iraq's army took control of the so-called disputed areas, which both the Kurdistan regional government and Baghdad claim. There are now votes in Baghdad for these areas to be forever controlled by the Central Government of Iraq. At the same time, the Iraqi Constitution in Article 140 is very clear that these areas are disputed. Not least the United States has made it very clear that the status of the areas is not changed by the fact that Iraq's military is now in control.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-260	Madam President, I would like The simple and short answer would be yes. We have made it clear, both before and after the referendum, that the issue of the status of the Kurdish region must be resolved in dialogue and in talks between the Kurdish region government and Iraq's federal government in Baghdad and within the framework of the Iraqi Constitution. In addition, we, together with France, have taken the initiative to raise and discuss the issue by the UN Security Council, because the situation needs to be stabilised and resolved in accordance with the Constitution.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-262	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer. It is gratifying that the government has this position. It is also very important that Sweden is clear about this, not least because there are now strong forces in Baghdad that are trying to put Iraq's constitution out of play in this part. I would like to ask one more question quickly. What is Sweden doing to help the thousands of people affected by the earthquake in Iran and Iraq in recent days? Has Sweden sent any help there or will Sweden do so?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-264	Madam President, I would like On the first issue, we are doing everything we can to support efforts to establish dialogue between the Kurds and the Baghdad Government. We have also supported UN Special Envoy Jan Kubis. I raised this point when I met the UN Secretary-General at the end of October. We are also working to ensure that the EU contributes more to the UN's work in Iraq. We are always humanitarian and naturally want to support the Iraqis in their difficult situation.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-268	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. The so - called paradise leak has sparked a wide debate on taxes and about rich people's unwillingness to contribute to the financing of, among other things, health care, school and care. After all, the previous government fought taxes by lowering them or, as in the case of the wealth tax, simply removing them. How does the Minister of Finance think about the cheating that is estimated to cost Sweden about SEK 40 billion a year?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-272	Madam President, I would like It is a completely unacceptable fact that a small global financial elite feels entitled to hover over the world's tax systems and not be involved in contributing. What you do then is send the bill to the ordinary taxpayers – employees, pensioners and summer workers – and to our young people and children at school who do not receive the education they are entitled to and therefore need the rich elite not to contribute. This government has been working hard from day one to fight tax evasion. We have a ten-point programme that is about tightening up the legislation, increasing the resources for the Swedish Tax Agency and working more internationally to ensure that all people contribute with the tax that we all know we need to be able to finance the school, health care, care and a safe society for everyone in Sweden.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-274	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. We, who make up half of Sweden's population, have also noted that 87 percent of the approximately 1,200 Swedes who have been identified in the Paradise leak are men. The follow-up question is whether this too demonstrates the need for more women as business leaders and on company boards.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-275	Madam President, I would like This shows the structure we have not only in Sweden but in large parts of the world, namely that men have more economic power than women. It also shows the importance of having a feminist government and a government that pursues a feminist economic policy in Sweden. It also shows that more economic power must be transferred to women, and more women on company boards would be such a way. It is very sad that the majority of this Parliament does not want to see us quota women on the boards of companies in Sweden, something that is being done in many other countries.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-277	Madam President, I would like My question is to Peter Eriksson. In a non-functioning housing market with a lack of housing, we have tight housing and lock-in effects. In addition to the exclusion areas that we already have, new ones may be created if we do not build right and make it easier instead of increasing the barriers for people to own their homes. In a decree, the Government has commissioned Boverket to allocate a small amount of support to outdoor environments. This is what the Center Party wants to increase by another SEK 70 million per year so that early stage efforts can be made in urban planning and create free lines of sight for residents, light up tunnels and make it impossible from footbridges and other hiding places, which occur, to attack the police and rescue services who do their job. My question to Peter Eriksson is whether he thinks that the Government's efforts are sufficient and whether, in the light of the developments we see, it is justified to strengthen the power of politics over the security of society.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-281	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. I am pleased that Ola Johansson is paying attention to the support that we have introduced and also greatly increased in the budget over the past year, because there is great pressure. Many municipalities want to use outdoor environmental support. This greatly contributes to a more pleasant outdoor environment in residential areas and parts of the cities where there are such great needs. I am very pleased that the Center Party has the same focus. We can certainly take care of each other to make further efforts in this area in the future. I think it is one of the better parts, which are used and applied for very much.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-283	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Peter Eriksson, for your answer! But it is still Boverket alone who decides who gets to take part of the money and what they are to be used for. I trust Boverket in this case, but I think it is too heavy a responsibility they have to take in the current situation and that efforts need to be better coordinated between authorities. The government cannot escape its responsibilities here; it must be much clearer about what it wants to achieve through its support and its authorities. The question is why the government does not have higher ambitions in this area.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-286	Madam President, I would like Now I don't quite understand, I have to say. We have set aside quite a lot of money in the budget to create safe and good outdoor environments. Many people have applied for the aid, and we have an authority that distributes the money. Does the Center Party want to do otherwise? I'm having a bit of a hard time understanding that. It is a good support and many who want it. Then, of course, the details of this can be changed. But we do not intend to switch to a system in which the government itself distributes the money.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-288	Madam President, I would like It has happened on the bus, in school corridors, at the workplace Christmas party or during the pay call, in politics and also in state institutions. During #metoo, # silence, # sung and now # with which right have thousands of women with different professions now taken courage and told about their experiences. For many it has not been self-evident, and much is at stake for them. One thing in common is the testimony: it is men who expose women to sexual harassment.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-290	Testimony has also emerged that such events have occurred in state institutions – institutions for which the Minister is responsible. Then my question is: what has the government done to counteract this?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-291	Madam President, I would like First of all, like most others, I am overwhelmed by the power of the testimony that is currently pouring over us from the many different sectors of society. I am overwhelmed but also inspired to struggle and change. The first thing I did when I read the testimony in Svenska Dagbladet on my way to Nytts- studio was to immediately decide to call the heads of our state institutions Operan, Dramaten and Riksteatern and also to talk to the chairmen, whom we have appointed. I have made demands on them to change this, which is very much a leadership issue, a management issue. It requires awareness and determination to succeed in creating a safe, safe and good working environment on our national scenes.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-294	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I hope we are aware of the struggle! At least I can feel it in my stomach. Okay, Alice Bah Kuhnke, this is what you've done. What are we doing forward?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-296	Madam President, I would like What I am doing in parallel with these talks and keeping in touch with managers and presidents, as I have been doing for a week, is reviewing the political instruments and tools. These are companies run on the basis of government corporate governance. It is important that we put in efforts and not least follow up, because all policies and fine guidelines exist.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-298	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Finance. These days we have been told that employees at Trafikverket are suspected of receiving bribes in the form of cash, luxury items and pre-approved air invoices. It has been a condition for some entrepreneurs to get assignments such as road painting and more. It is an immoral and unethical behavior of some employees of the Trafikverket who have been going on for too long. Madam President, I would like Internal scrutiny is not enough. Priority must be given to ethical work, and corrupt employees and consultants must be reported to the police. The government should take the bribery very seriously and get to the bottom of these irregularities.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-302	Madam President, I would like This is an important issue raised by Robert Halef, and the government takes it very seriously. This also shows how important it is that we have free and reviewing media that can pick up this type of case so that this kind of thing comes to light and that we can have this discussion. These cases are, of course, totally unacceptable, and this is not just the case at the Finnish Transport Administration. We have also seen some cases of other authorities where government officials have acted in a way that is not correct or in line with existing guidelines and legislation. The minister responsible will take further initiatives in this area. It is about having a dialogue with the Heads of Government. It is also a question of more clearly implementing the values that all government officials work on.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-306	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The alliance parties in the Transport Committee have called the Minister for Infrastructure and the Director-General of the Finnish Transport Administration to the committee to question themselves about the bribery scandal and what measures have been taken to curb corruption. It is worrying that the management of the Finnish Transport Administration has been aware of the revealed corruption for a long time and has not acted sufficiently. The question is whether the Ministry of Industry or the Minister concerned knew about this.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-309	Madam President, I would like When an individual minister was informed, that minister had to be asked. One thing is clear, however: the government takes this very seriously. Basically, it is a question of trust in the state authorities. This trust is very important, and then all government officials must act in a way that is in accordance with existing guidelines and legislation. It is about dialogue with individual authorities but also about a more comprehensive approach.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-312	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Finance. The good impact of horseback riding on public health is well documented. Rehabilitation and riding therapy is today an established form of treatment in many locations around Sweden. The equestrian sport also has over half a million practitioners, the majority of whom are young women and girls. However, horseback riding is not included in the state health care allowance. This means that those who have not tried equestrian sports or do not have the financial means to do so are excluded from the sport. My question to the Minister for Finance is therefore: can the Minister of Finance explain what initiatives have been taken to include equestrian sport in the health allowance, as the Social Democrats promised in the 2014 election campaign?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-316	Madam President, I would like Yes, horseback riding is an amazing sport practiced by many people around Sweden. Riding is also an important industry, not least in the more sparsely populated parts of the country. It creates jobs in the Swedish sparsely populated area. Riding can be important not least during childhood. For many young girls who feel bad, equestrianism is a breathing hole. Of course, equestrian sport could have its place in the promotion of health care in other parts, including working life. Therefore, the government has begun an analysis of how a change of legislation could be made so that equestrian sport can be included. However, it is a complex legislative issue because it is not the government that decides which sports should be covered, but it is an interpretation that the Tax Agency makes of the legislation. In that case, the legislation must be amended in an appropriate and balanced way, and this requires some analysis.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-320	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. It is gratifying that, after three and a half years, the government has finally set up an investigation. I am pleased to see that this investigation is being carried out and that we can have a decision in place. After all, there is not much time left for this term of office. My supplementary question to the Minister is: when does the Minister of Finance think that the investigation is complete so that we can take the debate forward in this House, just as the Social Democrats promised in the election campaign?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-323	Madam President, I would like We've started the analysis, and I'm afraid I can't tell you when it's finished. It's about finding a balanced line. After all, we do not want legislation that no longer includes sports that are currently included. However, much more has happened in our years than when the Moderates were in the Ministry of Finance. At that time, no such work was carried out at all.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-326	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson. For many years, we have seen a sharp increase in immigration to Sweden, which in combination with the housing shortage and instruction law, which obliges municipalities to accept a certain proportion of newly arrived immigrants, means that municipalities have allowed immigrants to take the lead in the housing queue. Recently, a report compiled by the county administrative boards showed a displacement effect in 60 per cent of municipalities. Immigrants are put ahead of other groups with great needs and other people in the housing queue. Commenting on TT, Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson said that other groups in society must not stand back and that this is not a displacement effect. How does Peter Eriksson mean?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-330	Madam President, I would like I don't think that's exactly how I formulated it. It's a strange discussion. When we have a housing shortage that has been created for a long time because we have built far too few homes and we become more people, the housing shortage becomes greater. Then there will be greater problems and difficulties in ensuring that everyone gets a place to live. But housing responsibility exists, as we talked about earlier, in the municipalities, and those who have been granted a residence permit in Sweden have the same rights as others. However, we make special efforts for students so that there will be more student housing, and we invest special resources in elderly housing. We also say that municipalities must take extra care of those who are the furthest away from having a dwelling so that, even if they happen to be new residents with a residence permit, they get a dwelling.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-333	Madam President, I would like The newly arrived immigrants are, in fact, a privileged group in society today because, unlike Swedish citizens, they have the right to a place of residence through the Instructions Act. The housing responsibility of municipalities is ultimately a planning responsibility, and everyone knows that building housing takes six to nine years. Planning responsibility with housing responsibility is therefore not a guarantee of obtaining a dwelling. Such a guarantee, on the other hand, has the new arrivals through the Instructions Act.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-335	Madam President, I would like It is an extraordinary claim that the new arrivals to Sweden are a privileged group. Sit in the apartments located in the suburbs around Södertälje and on the outskirts of Stockholm, Roger Hedlund, where ten fifteen people share a two or a one-bedroom apartment today! That is an unreasonable statement. We have big problems with finding housing, and we have a lot of overcrowding. Worst of all, it is among those who have recently moved to Sweden. They're the furthest away from the market, not the closest.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-337	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. On 3 September this year, the Member of Parliament was arrested in a nocturnal raid on Cambodia's largest opposition party, the CNRP, Kem Sokha, and threatened to dissolve the party. I have asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether Sweden has protested against the arrest, which threatens democracy in Cambodia before the elections in July 2018. The Minister for Foreign Affairs wrote in his reply that Sweden's development cooperation gives us influence and opportunity to conduct dialogue. A dialogue took place on 20 October, when Sweden indicated that if CNRP was dissolved, Sweden would reconsider its involvement in Cambodia. A few hours ago the decision came from the Supreme Court: the CNRP is dissolved and its leaders are banned from exercising political activity over the next five years. The question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: what measures is she prepared to take?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-341	Madam President, I would like Developments in Cambodia are deeply worrying and depressing. The scope for action of both the opposition and civil society and the media is severely restricted, and today the opposition party was dissolved. We have been clear that continued repression of this kind will have consequences for Swedish engagement and for the forms and direction of development cooperation. We made this point at meetings with government representatives during the Human Rights Dialogue in October. Sweden has no budget support for Cambodia, but we have a number of efforts involving the state as a partner. These will cease and will instead be directed to organisations, to provide support to them. We are also in favour of the EU putting more pressure on Cambodia as a whole to put an end to the repression of political opposition, the media and civil society organisations.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-344	Madam President, I would like It sounds good about Sweden is clear that we will now stop supporting the Cambodian government and the state and that we do not have that kind of cooperation. This means that we are also cutting back on aid and development cooperation in Cambodia, because the leading party and its representatives are de facto prevented from carrying out political activities. They take over a party that received 44.83 percent in the elections; their seats are taken over by those who received 3.6 percent.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-346	Madam President, I would like Sida has decided to increase support for democracy and rights defenders and not to continue with any support that involves financial transfer to the state, except in education and research. There may be reason to retain certain elements to ensure that a society can function and that there is education and something to build upon when developments hopefully take a different direction in Cambodia.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-349	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Peter Eriksson and is about artificial intelligence, AI. We see new progress almost every week in this area. Microsoft is making its biggest bet ever – the biggest bet in the world is on AI. Google used to call itself a mobile first company. Now they say they're AI first. When their chairman Eric Schmidt was here in Sweden, he said that Sweden is lagging behind in this area, which confirms the picture I get when I talk to representatives. We are well located in many areas of technology and digital areas in Sweden, but here we are lagging behind some. Now we got a very positive news this week, that the Wallenbergs are investing over 1 billion in this area. My question, of course, is: What is the government doing in the field of AI?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-353	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. The government adopted a new strategy in the area of digitalisation this spring, where the issue of AI, among other things, was raised. I agree with the questioner that the AI area is one of the areas of digitalisation development where Sweden has not been in the forefront. On the other hand, we have been far ahead in a number of other areas. Long-term, but also in the coming years, I believe that if we are to keep up with and be a leading country in digitalisation, we need to be much better and sharper in this area. This is why the government is running a number of projects where we are working to become stronger in this area, both in Swedish universities and universities as well as in combination with Swedish companies. One of them brought forward the Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation a few days ago.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-356	Madam President, I would like We now see that AI comes into big politics. Russia and China see it as a strategic asset and invest. I do not mean that Sweden should get into this arms race, but it is extremely important for Swedish companies that there are people with this kind of knowledge to hire and that they are not stuck in old systems when the other companies in the world are moving forward at a fast pace. I look forward to more sharp proposals from the government. I have seen that the Government has made many visits, but more decisions are needed.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-358	Madam President, I would like Yes, I visited California and Silicon Valley the other week and met a number of leading companies in this field. I was at Stanford University, too. I believe that Swedish universities must become more sharp in this area. We may need to build a clearer centre, because this is a strategic area for Swedish research, Swedish companies and Swedish competitiveness. The government is working on this, and we come up with more things.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-362	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. The question touches on the same question as Emma Hult put earlier, and it concerns us very much, both Members and others. This concerns the sexual harassment and abuse – terrible stories – that we have heard in recent weeks. Several industries have been raised, including music, theatre and performing arts. My question to the Minister for Culture is, above all, what you are going to do, but also what the institutions are saying about the culture of silence that is being shown. What do you think – what does the Minister of Culture think about what to do to make people dare to talk about what is happening?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-365	Madam President, I would like First of all, in all the terrible things that are now obvious to all of us, I would like to emphasise how pleased it is that there is a great deal of commitment. You ask many similar questions about this, and when I was in the Committee on Culture, we saw a great deal of commitment from the whole Parliament on these issues – that we should really get to grips with them. That's good. Now we have the conditions and the opportunity to actually change Sweden – maybe Europe and the world too – and to see this as a paradigm shift. What we are witnessing is that it is culture that is the major problem, that there is a culture of silence that means that the management is not reached by the information that these abuses are taking place. It takes time and effort to change a culture. What they are doing now is developing action plans to bypass the step of having policies and guidelines, because they do – they know everything about gender equality work and how to deal with any cases that come up. But they haven't been reached by any cases, or – now that we know what reality looks like – they've been reached by far too few.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-369	Madam President, I would like I am delighted that these discussions are on everyone's agenda, including those of politicians. We had an investigation that was presented about ten years ago and was about gender equality in the field of performing arts. Today there is a lot of discussion in the field of culture about what is at national level, but the Minister for Culture and we all have a responsibility because there are institutions also at regional and local level. Does the Minister of Culture see an opportunity to influence there?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-372	Madam President, I would like As far as cultural policy is concerned, we will shortly have the largest ever cultural budget in our country. Then we actually want this money to also create good conditions for people to grow and develop and so that we get more culture to more people. What proposals have we received in the past on how to change cultures? How do you create and build trust? How do we change leadership? And how do we stimulate this from the point of view of politics, because it is the delicate thing in all of this?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-374	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Foreign Minister on the difficult situation in Myanmar, also known as Burma. As is well known, the situation there is terribly difficult for the Rohingya people. More than 600 000 people have been displaced from their homes with extremely brutal means and are now refugees in Bangladesh. The UN has accused the army of ethnic uprisings, and human rights groups accuse the army of indiscriminate killing, rape and looting. As late as 6 November this year, the UN Security Council failed to rally around a resolution on the situation in Myanmar to deal with the refugee crisis in Rakhine. The Foreign Minister is now on his way to visit Myanmar and Bangladesh. I wonder: what will the Foreign Minister do to put an end to this violence?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-379	Madam President, I would like I thank Karin Enström for the question. This is the fastest growing humanitarian crisis in the world at the moment. The reports we receive are horrendous and hair-traveling about the brutal violence perpetrated against the Rohingya people. At the same time, we feel a disappointment around the world in the face of the government in Myanmar and their inability. This applies, of course, to Aung San Suu Kyi, the military and everyone involved. In fact, they have to deal with this, recognise it as a major problem and also do something about it. I will go there on Sunday and do so together with colleagues in the European Union, including Federica Mogherini. We have to work on all fronts. We must continue to work at the UN, and we must work in Europe. In fact, I believe that the European Union will have a strong voice here. We must ensure that persecution and violence stop. We must ensure that these people can return peacefully, and we must also ensure that there is a commission of inquiry to see what has happened.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-382	Madam President, I would like It is indeed a terrible situation and suffering that we cannot imagine. It is therefore important that the eyes of the world are now directed at what is happening and that several representatives, including the Foreign Minister, make this visit. But visitors aren't enough. What concrete measures are there to put an end, firstly, to violence and persecution, secondly, to hold those responsible to account and, thirdly, to ensure, of course, that these people can return home safely?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-383	Madam President, I would like So far, Sweden has given SEK 200 million in humanitarian aid directly to those affected by the Rakhine crisis in Myanmar and Bangladesh, in addition to the core support we provide to the UN and all its various organisations. As you know, we are one of the world's leading donors to the UN; we are the third largest bilateral donor. But, of course, we must also continue the dialogue directly with those involved in Myanmar and ensure that both the Human Rights Council and the UN address this issue properly and put pressure on all parties.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-385	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. The Finnish Customs has been underfunded for many years, which has led to large holes in the business. The Government is now proposing in its budget proposal for 2018 an addition of SEK 115 million to the Swedish Customs Agency, which is earmarked for increased control activities. I welcome the government's message of a reinforcement to the Customs Department. This is really necessary for customs to be able to carry out its mission. The problem, however, is that the budget is not enough even for the work to meet its current mandate or to restore past deficits. So there will be no new business. New tasks are added, such as dealing with explosives, challenges in efficient trade and dealing with Brexit and a comprehensive IT development. I therefore wonder how the Minister for Finance is reasoning when she markets a substantial under-financing of an authority as a major investment in it.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-390	Madam President, I would like There will be a 10% increase in customs resources when this effort is fully deployed. I think most people would see a 10% increase as quite a big bet. This, of course, will increase the ability of customs to secure our borders. Our having safe and secure borders is something that is fundamental to this government. Customs will be able to work harder to control what happens at the border but will also be able to provide good service to all companies that rely on customs in order to import and export goods. That is why the government has made this comprehensive effort at the Customs Agency.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-392	Madam President, I would like When the Director-General of the Customs Administration last visited the Tax Committee, we were informed that, despite the contributions covering a small part of the previous deficits, staff had to be removed from other parts of the Customs Agency in order to cope with what the government expects it to do. This doesn't work. It just doesn't get serious.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-393	Madam President, I would like Of course, the Customs Agency performs a number of important tasks, and they have a fairly large budget, and now a considerably expanded budget, to carry out these tasks. We also give customs greater powers, including in order to be able to deal with explosives when they are found. This is welcomed by the customs officials I have met. Of course, the government will monitor developments and ensure that customs can carry out their important mission. But it is clear that a 10% increase in resources increases the conditions.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-397	Madam President, I would like As the world looks, we almost needed a Foreign Minister's Question Time. There is a lot going on in the world around us, and unfortunately too little of this is of a positive nature. It is important that we know how the Swedish Government relates to countries and the conflicts that exist, especially now that we have taken a place in the fine room of foreign policy in New York. My question to the Foreign Minister concerns the escalation of the conflict between Iran and Saudi Arabia. In view of recent events, the Arab League is holding an extraordinary meeting on the occasion of violets committeeed by Iran in the region. In view of the fact that the government launched a so-called structured political dialogue with the Iranian regime a year ago, I would like to know how the government is reacting to the conflict that has now flared up further. This is a very worrying situation.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-400	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this question. Of course, we are all concerned about what this can lead to. What we in Sweden can do, of course, is call for senses, for dialogue and for an attempt to resolve the conflicts that have arisen peacefully, politically and diplomatically. As far as Lebanon is concerned, we believe it is incredibly important for Hariri to be able to return to Lebanon. Many of the conflicts that we see around the world today are affected by the power game, one might say, which is going on between major powers in the Middle East. It is now a source of concern. We can only try to contribute in the Security Council and in our bilateral contacts to ensure that this does not further escalate into violence or conflicts involving even more countries.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-404	Madam President, I would like Calling to senses is good. Do we? Does the in-depth political dialogue give us the opportunity to express these views? It was over a year since we entered into political cooperation with the Tehran regime. Do we really see any success in this dialogue at all?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-405	Madam President, I would like It means, of course, that above all, for example on the part of the European Union, we can call our fellow Minister for Foreign Affairs and speak directly to Tehran and Iran – and, of course, just call to remain calm. We defend the core agreement we signed with Iran. It's important because it's just opening up this opportunity. So far it has been quiet on that edge, but it is important that the reactions are moderate.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-406	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Foreign Minister Wallström a question. Those of us who are following developments in Colombia are deeply concerned about the difficulties encountered in implementing the peace agreement with Farc-EP. The Congress will not achieve the objective of completing the legislative work on the implementation agreement by the end of November. We are also deeply concerned about the threats and attacks against popular leaders and M R defenders. During the year, 57 social leaders and human rights defenders have been murdered in Colombia. Illegal armed groups, such as the Paramilitary Autodefensas Unidas de Colombia, are responsible for 59% of these murders. My question is this: can the Government, in talks with Colombia, stress the importance of the early implementation of the paragraphs of the peace agreement with the Farc-EP?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-409	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question. Think, Colombia – this glow of light in an otherwise very gloomy world where we see little progress leading to peace agreements! After so many decades, there was finally peace in Colombia. Now, of course, the important thing is that the peace agreement is implemented and that Colombia is given the resources to actually offer those who have fought for Farc in the past another livelihood and something else to do, something meaningful, to build the future of Colombia. Therefore, not least the EU must help to support – provide economic, political and diplomatic support in that process. We must also keep an eye on this so that half-criminal drug gangs are not allowed to take over the business instead of Farc. It's an incredibly important point you bring up, Marco Venega, and we carry it with us. I met with Colombia's ambassador yesterday and said that we need to think about further ways for us to support Colombia.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-413	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. It is also important for the Colombian Government to recognise that there are paramilitary groups that account for a great deal of violence in Colombia and can fight them. I have one more question, and that is how Sweden can influence the Colombian government so that the protection of human rights defenders and popular leaders becomes more effective.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-415	Madam President, I would like It is an important question how we ensure that, in this difficult and complex process, we also retain the protection of human rights defenders and those who have actually also experienced far too much persecution and death. We point this out in the process, and in fact we do so also in the UN context, where we say that this is important to keep an eye on. We also do so in our bilateral contacts, and we also provide support to organisations that protect human rights activists and work with civil society representatives.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-417	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Finance. The budget presented by the government a few months ago contains major investments in welfare, not least in education but also in health care, child benefits and reduced taxes on pensioners. It has been very welcome. At the same time, there has been some criticism since the budget was presented that it would not contain enough so-called structural reforms. My question is simply: how does the Minister of Finance view this criticism?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-420	Madam President, I would like The budget is full of structural reforms to strengthen the Swedish model. The Swedish model is the model in the world where they have managed to combine high growth and jobs for everyone as well as a high level of equality. One of the most important structural reforms in the budget is the effort we are making on children and young people. We make extensive efforts to ensure that all children in Sweden have the opportunity to have a good school where they learn what they need, no matter what parents they have. We ensure that there is the possibility of further education later in life, and we are expanding higher education. It is also extremely important for young people to have the opportunity to leave home. These are key and important structural reforms. In addition, we strengthen the Swedish labour market model through a deduction right for trade union fees. We also lower taxes on pensioners. We want to eliminate completely the unfair tax gap introduced by the bourgeois government, which makes pensioners pay higher taxes than wage earners. We are taking further steps to remove it, and we want to abolish it completely.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-423	Madam President, I would like It is quite clear that it becomes visible to people in Sweden that the government's economic strategy is based on the theory that equality and reduction of gaps is a success factor for the economy to grow and for Sweden to compete. It also deals with these issues in economic circles abroad. How does the Minister of Finance view the fact that other countries are now beginning to talk about the need for an inclusive economy?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-424	Madam President, I would like There is now a noticeable, great interest from foreign economists and from my fellow finance ministers for what we are doing in Sweden. After all, we are just able to combine equality, good conditions for growing up for all children and young people and high growth and employment. This is based on the fact that we want to create good conditions for everyone in Sweden to enter the labour market, have their own livelihood, get their own housing and live a good life. It is the foundation of the Swedish model – this government is now strengthening.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-425	Madam President, I would like Since the mission revealed the so-called paradise leak, the debate on tax evasion and tax planning has taken off. Turns out the leak didn't concern tax evasion but legal tax planning. Work on signing tax agreements with the various tax havens began during the Alliance, and Sweden was already very active in the international work against tax evasion during the alliance period. We are politically agreed that the tax that Parliament has decided on and that is needed for welfare, police and defence should also be paid. Last Sunday the government presented the proposal announced in the budget bill: You want to make a change of law by setting a two-month deadline for those who correct their own errors. It is therefore not an extra measure to tackle tax planning, but is related to tax evasion. Why has the Minister of Finance tried to create the impression that there is a conflict on an issue where the parties of the Riksdag are essentially in agreement?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-429	Madam President, I would like I appreciate the Moderates' interest in tax planning and fighting it. My picture is not that I have tried to show any conflict on a matter, and, of course, if we have the support of the Moderates in this matter, then no one is more grateful than I am. The project we have carried out on precisely the exchange of information agreement is a project that was actually started when I was a State Secretary for Tax, but which Anders Borg then took on. We have had good cooperation there. The government has a ten-point list and has today presented further proposals to combat tax evasion, namely to have human resources in more sectors. No one will be happier than I am the more of all the proposals that the government will come forward with in the coming time that we are supported by the Moderates. However, one thing is clear: from day one, this government has worked hard to combat tax evasion and tax evasion – to finance childcare, school, health care and care for the elderly.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-432	Madam President, I would like Even the Alliance has worked hard to fight tax evasion. The possibility of self-rectification, however, has existed for a long time and is a successful way to get tax to Sweden from abroad. The Government's proposal is not aimed at tax planning, and it is also estimated to have only a marginal effect – SEK 15 million is in these contexts a rather modest amount. Does the Minister of Finance think that changes to self-justification rules will have any effect in reducing legal tax planning?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-434	Madam President, I would like This is important to say: Now, of course, the Tax Agency will examine the data that has emerged in the latest Paradise leak. Then you have to assess whether everything that has happened has been legal or not. It remains to be seen to what extent it is or is not legal, and it is up to the Swedish Tax Agency. The change that we want to make in terms of self-rectification should, in my opinion, be made so that more people quickly make their self-rectifications, which can also make it easier for the Tax Agency's case management.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-437	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström. Belarus continues to show serious shortcomings in the principles of the rule of law, electoral law, election performance, freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly and association. The situation of LGBT people in prison is still very worrying. Belarus is the only country in Europe that still applies the death penalty. It can be said that it is the last remaining dictatorship in Europe.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-441	Madam President, I would like Belarus has been invited to participate in the Eastern Partnership Summit, as have other partner countries and EU Member States. Who will participate from there will be decided at national level. But we see this as a way of keeping up the pressure on Belarus. We are pushing the EU to ensure that the concrete steps that Belarus is taking to respect fundamental human rights and the rule of law will also be crucial in shaping the EU's support, contacts and future policies towards Belarus. There is a lot of concern there. Some progress has been made. At the same time, there have been detentions of demonstrators, oppositionists and so on. We believe that the EU must keep up the pressure, and we need the dialogue to continue to put pressure on Belarus.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-444	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. When we are still in the Eastern Partnership, how do Sweden and EU countries intend to continue to strengthen the Eastern Partnership, both bilaterally and multilaterally?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-446	Madam President, I would like I came back yesterday from Georgia where I went with my Polish colleague to point out, in the run-up to the summit on the Eastern Partnership, how important it is that we continue to engage in these countries. We shall encourage reform efforts, for example, in the fight against corruption. We shall ensure that democratic development in these countries is defended. It will also serve us, and it will contribute to greater security for all the countries of Europe as well as to the welcome development of the East-P countries.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-447	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry if this is going to be a bit of a repeat. But there are many of us who have read about and been horrified by the hashtags that occur in the debate, metoo, silence and whisper. Let me start by being clear that this is not a problem that is isolated from the cultural sphere. It concerns the whole of society and all sectors, but it has perhaps been most visible in the field of culture in recent times. There has been a shock wave through society, and there are probably many of us who are shocked by the scale. But at the same time I do not understand that so many are surprised. We knew about it earlier. In 2010, the Committee on Culture held a major hearing on this matter. At that time, it was the survey of Dagens Eko that was behind it. It was promised from all sides that cures, improvements, action plans and that this would not happen again. Let's write in 2017. The Minister for Culture and Democracy has explained his talks, but I would still like to hear: what concrete steps does the government intend to take to ensure that we do not stand here again in another seven years' time?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-452	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Chairman of the Culture Committee Olof Lavesson, for emphasising this and for your commitment that feels genuine and that gives us the opportunity to create a change and actually make a difference this time, so that we do not stand here and talk about this for another one or five years! That's exactly what Lavesson says. Already in 2010, even more intensive work began in our institutions. The chairman and CEO of the Opera have described to me that you have everything, all the guidelines and all the routines in place. But it is now noted with disappointment that it is not enough. It is not enough to have beautiful words on paper. We must also take on the difficult work of changing our ways of being against each other, changing culture and changing power systems, and it takes time. It will require a great deal of commitment from all of us here if we want to change this. As Lavesson says, it occurs not only in institutions but in society as a whole.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-455	Madam President, I would like We will take a number of initiatives. We have already decided to invite representatives from employers, workers' organisations and representatives of state institutions. We are also discussing repeating the major seminar that we had in 2010 to see what has happened since then. At the same time, it must be noted that when there is harassment, abuse and pure rape, it is not a problem of order but a crime of law. Therefore, more efforts will also be needed. Can the Minister for Culture say anything about the discussions in the government regarding these violations of law?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-458	Madam President, I would like I did not hear the last word, but there are a number of discussions going on in the government to ensure that our laws are enforced and that crime is reported to the police. It's always A and O. But for the crimes to be reported to the police, there must be a culture and a working environment where you dare to talk about what is not your own shame but that is the shame of those who expose you to the crimes.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-460	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on an economic cooperation agreement between the EU and the Sadc countries, which consists of seven South African countries. The aim of the agreement is to eradicate poverty in the long term through a trade partnership consistent with the objective of sustainable development and the Cotonou Agreement. The Swedish Democrats have a positive view of trade in goods and services. Trade reduces protectionism, conveys contacts and skills between countries and continents and is a major contributor to poverty reduction and prosperity. The Swedish Democrats are therefore basically a general free trade friendly party We believe that Sweden, both within the EU and in international cooperation such as the WTO, the World Trade Organization, should work towards open and free trade and to combat protectionism. It is therefore gratifying that there is a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament that free trade is positive, as it reduces poverty and creates prosperity for both poor and rich countries. Sweden already has trade with the Sadc countries, Southern Africa n Development Community, which represents about 0.3 per cent of Sweden's total trade. Madam President, I would like Looking at trade in Africa in general, it can be seen that between African countries it accounts for only 16% of its GDP, compared with 70% for the EU and 50% for Asia. This is a problem that shows that international trade is small for African countries. If a country has large volumes of trade, it also means prosperity. Large volumes of trade are created primarily through trade with neighbouring countries. In the EU, the largest trading partner is usually a neighbouring country, and this also applies to global value chains. The fact that trade between African countries is small is in many cases due to the fact that they have had war with each other or that customs duties are high. Customs duties are on average 8 per cent, compared with 2.5 per cent in the rest of the world. You can also compare with the EU and the US, where customs duties are being removed at 3.5%. The low share of trade and high tariffs obviously make it difficult for countries to emerge from poverty. Sweden's economic cooperation agreement is therefore important for these countries. The African countries themselves have realised that they need to increase trade with each other. They have therefore started to develop a new trade agreement, the so-called CFTA agreement, or Continental Free Trade Area, which is extremely positive. Madam President, I would like I am absolutely sure that if Africa gets a freer market like that in Europe, the continent will flourish and become a strong economic engine in the world. That picture was reinforced when I was away last year with the Foreign Affairs Committee to Ethiopia and Tanzania, which are not part of this agreement but are good examples of Sweden making a difference. It was a instructive and very interesting journey, especially when Africa is a fantastic continent and has great future potential. Both Ethiopia and Tanzania have growing economies, and they strive to survive one day without aid. At the same time, they want to continue to have good relations with Sweden and are happy to see that Swedish investments and companies establish themselves in the countries. We were told several times that Swedish companies and investments give countries greater opportunities to get out of aid dependency and that they have created good relations with Sweden. I was very pleased to see their ambitions to be able to stand on their own feet – especially for me who come from an entrepreneurial and entrepreneurial region. The creativity and entrepreneurial spirit that prevailed were promising and positive for development. Sweden has clearly managed to create the right conditions and incentives for these countries. I therefore hope that this agreement will allow us to do the same with the Sadc countries.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-472	Madam President, I would like The work on financial stability is important for the whole of the Swedish economy, and it is therefore good that the government has presented the proposal for increased opportunities to process data in the database for supervision of and supervision of financial markets. The database is an important source of information for the authorities that have to handle the different parts of their work with financial stability in Sweden. We therefore call for approval of the Government's proposal. In Sweden, the work on financial stability is divided into three different authorities: Finansinspektionen, which has overall responsibility for the work on financial stability, the Riksbank, which has its own responsibility for the stability of the payment system and responsibility for monetary policy, and the National Debt Office, which is responsible for resolution of banks in crisis. All these authorities must follow the financial markets closely in order to be prepared and rigged to handle different tasks when necessary. Situations requiring action in this context may pose serious risks of major economic disruption throughout society. It is therefore crucial for the work on financial stability that they have timely access to relevant data. The SCB manages the current database, which is used for the supervision and supervision of financial markets and is necessary to support the work on financial stability. It thus becomes an important prerequisite for the preventive work that is crucial for the authorities to be able to act quickly and correctly in any situation that arises. Madam President, I would like Today, only the Riksbank and Finansinspektionen have their own access to the database. On the other hand, the National Debt Office, which is responsible for planning and implementing the management of critical banks, does not have access to the database. It is both illogical and stupid, because the task of the National Debt Office is very complex and extensive. In addition, it places extremely great demands on the rapid and correct implementation of the measures. For this to be possible, the National Debt Office must have access to information contained in the current database. Today, the Swedish National Debt Office must go through the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority to access it, which creates unnecessary bureaucracy and reduced efficiency. Both of these shortcomings are directly negative if the work of the authorities is to be effective. The tasks of the National Debt Office in this context are regulated by an EU directive, the so-called crisis management directive, which has been incorporated into a Swedish law on resolution. It is a very comprehensive task that lies in this and that can include anything from forcing unprofitable parts of a banking business through restructuring to incorporating an entire bank under state control. It can also mean having to put a bank into bankruptcy, sell parts of it and ultimately get to a banking business that works independently and can be sold to a new owner. The database contains, as I have previously discussed, important data that are necessary for the National Debt Office to be able to plan and carry out its resolution mission. We believe that Riksgälden, as one of the three central actors in the work on financial stability, as well as Finansinspektionen and the Riksbank, should have its own direct access to the database for its planning and preparation work and to be able to act safely, quickly and efficiently in a sharp situation. It is crucial for measures in this context to have the intended effect, and this in turn is important for the Swedish economy. Madam President, I would like We see it as a major flaw in the financial stability framework and risk management in the financial sector that our authorities do not have access to the tools they need to solve their tasks properly. Access to relevant data is an absolute prerequisite that we must provide to the authorities. We therefore believe that today's decision on increased possibilities to process data in the database needs to be supplemented by a new paragraph in § 7, which gives the National Debt Office its own access to the database, with the same conditions as the Riksbank and Finansinspektionen. The Appendix should read as follows: ..................................................... We are very surprised that neither the coalition of governments nor the alliance parties seem to have understood this problem. The authorities see it, and the National Debt Office already pointed this out in a referral in 2013. Hopefully, this debate can have a positive effect so that the problem is finally resolved. Madam President, I would like I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-482	Madam President, I would like As I said, the issue is financial stability. Actually, there is no major conflict on the issue. The proposal is based on the Riksbank's submission of a letter to the Government. The Riksbank wants the database called the financial market database to have increased opportunities to co-process data. The database is currently held at SCB, and it contains information about the Riksbank's supervision of and Finansinspektionen's supervision of the financial markets. The Riksbank has made the assessment that it would like to be able to collect more types of data than was originally intended. The motivation is to be able to make better assessments of financial risks. The extension is described in the bill. These are data relating to the financial conditions of the Riksbank or the Swedish National Debt Office, data that are generally available, such as interest rates, exchange rates and industry affiliations, data from other central banks, data on the income statement and balance sheets of legal persons, etc. On the basis of that letter, the government has prepared this case. A proposal has been sent out for consultation and has had minor adjustments. The Government has also examined whether the proposal is compatible with other existing legislation on, for example, confidentiality and the power to create statistics and found that this is the case. Then the government has tabled a proposal and the Finance Committee has produced a report. No strangeness! SD's reservation is based on the fact that one of the referral bodies, Riksgälden, pointed out in their referral that they would also like to see the expanded database. The Swedish Democrats want the bill to meet the wishes of the National Debt Office. I'm calling for a refusal of SD's reservation. The reason why the Government does not comply with the Swedish National Debt Office in this bill is that it requires new handling, further investigation and further preparation. This matter has simply not touched on that issue. There is therefore also a lack of documentation and preparation to be able to take a position on this matter. In the event that the National Debt Office continues to wish for a change, they are welcome to submit a letter to the Government, just like the Riksbank, in which they bring forward their case, on which position may be taken to the matter. I support the proposal in the report.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-490	Madam President, I would like I would like to put a supplementary question to Björn Wiechel. We believe that the addition we have proposed is fully consistent with the handling of proposals that apply to our work here in Parliament. In accordance with the Report Handbook, we can come up with additional proposals relating to a topical matter. This is definitely the case here, because the National Debt Office also needs this information, as I have explained. The National Debt Office has also, as I have said, explained this very exemplary in its referrals back in 2013, so there has been plenty of time to prepare this question as well. What do you think makes it impossible to deal with this issue now? If you do not want to deal with it now or feel that you cannot do so, are you prepared to move on and raise this issue? Indeed, this can be done through the committee. The National Debt Office can of course also come in with a formal request. So there are many possibilities to solve the problem. The question is whether you are prepared to do so.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-492	Madam President, I would like I do not think that there is a fundamental disagreement about the need for financial stability or any conflicts on this issue, but rather that the matter has been based on the letter that the Riksbank has sent to the government. That is the basis and basis on which the government has then taken a position, prepared and landed in a conclusion. In order to do another matter, a different examination is required. The best thing would be if the National Debt Office simply submitted a letter, just as the Riksbank has done. There is nothing to prevent it, and it should be a system to advocate.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-493	Madam President, I would like One can, of course, look at the matter in this way. But it would have been possible to deal with this issue in this case. One might think that a political force that wants to draw Sweden right would be prepared to take initiatives on this issue too, which is actually of great importance for Swedish economic development. I think it is a bit of a pity that we are backing down and obviously not prepared to take our own political initiatives here either. We are likely to try to push this issue forward in one way or another, so it will certainly come back anyway.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-494	Madam President, I would like As stated in the bill text, the Government considers that this type of supplement would require further preparation, and there is no room for that in this bill. Can further initiatives be taken? Yes, absolutely! The National Debt Office is welcome to submit a letter, just as the Riksbank has done.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-496	Mr President, I would like to We have seen a number of heinous attacks on socially important functions in our society. Unfortunately, we have seen that attacks and attacks on police stations, physical buildings, police cars, ambulances, rescue services and, most recently, police private homes and family life have become increasingly ruthless in recent years. That is why the Liberals have asked for a debate to draw attention to the heinous threats and violence that the Swedish police have been subjected to recently. When you follow the legal debate, it's easy to raise penalties and tighten penalties, to have more people in prison and to have more uniformed policemen out there in the city. But this debate, Mr President, is about the man behind the police uniform. You get very taken and touched by all the stories that individual policemen come out with in the media and before their colleagues when they have been exposed to these threats and this violence. It is harassment, persecution and undue influence where criminals increasingly want to silence, intimidate and threaten our socially important functions. We will never accept that. This debate is to give them our support.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-499	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the initiative for this debate. I believe, Mr President, that there is no more important criminal policy task than breaking organised crime. It has grown strong and established for over 20 years. We have seen growth in almost all crimes linked to this type of crime: drug crime, blackmail, assault, illegal threats, abuse of justice, violence and threats to officials, shootings on the street. This type of established organised crime exists throughout Sweden, but of course particularly serious is the development in the vulnerable areas. There are areas where it is the criminals who decide and where they can attack the police, ambulance and fire department when they come to help. The shooting in Västerås and the explosion in Helsingborg can be further examples of that. I'm very tired of this. Swedish law applies everywhere. I will never accept that there are people running around in these areas and think they own the neighborhood. If this is allowed to continue, it will be a threat to the system. Then people will increasingly hesitate to report crimes, testify to what they have seen and participate in the judicial process. We can never accept that, because we will soon be no longer a rule of law. Instead, we have unleashed some sort of anarchy, where the strong can take advantage of it at the expense of the weak. So let me just say at once: the Swedish police and the Swedish judiciary must have the staffing, the equipment, the tools and the laws needed to once and for all uproot this organised crime with its roots. We must work hard against these criminal gangs. That is why, Mr President, we are deliberating an action programme. We have already tightened the penalties for serious violent crimes – grossly illegal threats, aggravated assault, gross blackmail, aggravated robbery and the most serious drug crimes. We have made it easier to go on the money, to seize assets that criminals have made available through crime. We have made it possible to bring down a gang leader for the crimes committed by his gang members. Next year, we're going to have more severe punishments for serious gun crimes. Then there will also be a presumption of arrest and secret coercive measures for those suspected of serious gun crime. If you leave home with a sharp - loaded weapon, you risk not coming home again for two years, and you will be detained pending trial. The government is investing in camera surveillance in the most crime-prone locations. Right now, more cameras are being set up than ever before. Here in Stockholm it is in for example Husby, Rinkeby and Tensta and just recently in Ronna in Södertälje and Sevedsplan in Malmö. It has been controversial in the past that there would be cameras there, but now they are. The government will go to the Riksdag this spring with a bill that will further increase the possibilities for camera surveillance in crime-prone locations. The government will also make proposals to develop the secret coercive measures. This afternoon, I received an investigation proposing a new law on secret data reading. This would further increase the scope for dealing with serious crimes. We must keep pace with technological developments. We must also keep up with the development of crime as criminals try to escape the measures we are taking. The government is developing police tools, but it won't help unless there's enough staffing. There must also be. That is why we are now making a major expansion of the police organization. Yesterday I had the privilege of welcoming another 133 police officers at a ceremony at City Hall. It was those who graduated from Södertörn Police College who have now graduated. In total, 295 police officers leave in the country this fall. That's good, but it's not enough. We have therefore doubled admissions to police training from previous years when they were 600 – 700 a year to this year more than 1,300 starting police training. Never before have so many started their police training as this year, 2017. We will continue to do this. In addition, two new courses have started – one in Malmö and one in West Sweden. In a few years, in 2024, the number of police employees has increased by 10,000. More people need training, but more cops need to be kept. I have said many times that that time is over when one could expect a trained police officer to stay in the police business for the rest of his life. That's not how it works anymore. They are also attractive to private employers in the labour market in a different way than we have been used to in the past. When the private sector twitches in the police in this way, we must become a more attractive employer so that we can manage to keep the police officers we have. We need to re-recruit the police we've lost. We did a re-recruitment campaign this summer. I'm glad to say that up to 150 police officers may be on their way back into business. Finally, let me say the following. Going after bluelight personnel who are pulling out to save lives is one of the worst things you can do. It should provide severe and long prison sentences. I have therefore asked the Prosecutor General to review the legislation on this point, and he will come back to me in January. It is important to ensure that criminal law increases respect for police and other forces of order. It is ultimately a question of safeguarding the rule of law here, Mr President.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-513	Mr President, I would like to The rule of law lays the foundations for a functioning society. That is why an attack on the rule of law is also an attack on the very basis of our society as a whole, that is, our common security and security. Sweden is currently in an acute crisis of security. Criminal gangs are moving their positions forward. The shooting at a policeman's residence in Västerås and the attack on the police house in Helsingborg are unfortunately only the latest examples of how crime and criminals move forward their positions. It is now getting to a very dangerous point. I believe that everyone in here has a responsibility to ensure that the dangerous border is not crossed. Seven out of ten police officers indicate that the exposure to threats and violence has increased in recent years. These are ominous signs. This is about women and men who are working hard for society, day and night, and who are currently under very severe pressure from organised crime. Most recently today, we were able to see more than 800 police officers leaving the profession only this year. At the same time, despite political promises made by the government to the contrary, the number of police officers is falling down to 19 000. This cannot continue, Mr President. The long-term consequences of police leaving the profession or not being able to do their job are fundamentally devastating to society. The result can then be a Sweden where the strong oppresses the weak, where justice is done arbitrarily, a Sweden where criminals restrict the freedom of honest people. We Moderates believe that it is time to strengthen the rule of law Sweden – and do so with full force. That's why we want to make the biggest effort on the police as well as on law and order in over 20 years in Sweden. We are talking about 10 000 more police workers, more stringent penalties and taking control of vulnerable areas. When the rule of law is attacked, we believe that political prestige cannot stand in the way of the necessary efforts. Then you cannot let the police authorities be led by a social democrat instead of being led by a police officer. Then one cannot say that now is not the time to invest in increased police salaries or that now is not the time to quickly come up with proposals to prevent attacks on blue-light personnel. Now is the time for action, no matter what political party we represent in this House. We believe that Sweden is currently facing a choice of path. There is no natural law that says that in Sweden there should be 61 vulnerable areas, 200 criminal gangs, 5 000 lifestyle criteria and shootings in line with southern Italy. This is a choice that we can influence. Now is the time to make proper efforts, not to say no to the proposals that are absolutely necessary to reverse the security crisis. My hope is that the current debate will make it possible to produce more proposals, in which every penny that can be invested in the police will be produced, where every legislative proposal that pushes back crime will come forward and where we are serious about pushing back the criminal gangs. It is a disgrace for Sweden that we have allowed it to go that far in many vulnerable areas. It is a shame that we have not better stood up for our bluelight staff. Let this current debate be an opportunity to put aside some of the political prestige and make effective proposals for Sweden.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-520	Mr President, I would like to There is only one party in this House that has spent more money on the police during the entire term of office than the government has. It is a party that has invested in working conditions and improved salaries for police officers. It is a party that has wanted to see more trained police officers throughout its term of office. It is a track record that makes that party the most credible party when it comes to the question of the police's basic prerequisites to accomplish their overall mission. That party, Mr President, is the Swedish Democrats. Looking at the development of criminal policy during this term of office, in principle all political developments are based on copying all or part of the proposals that the Swedish Democrats have been advocating since day one. The government is raising the penalty for serious gun crimes from one to two years in prison so that armed gangsters in the city can be put in custody right away. Guess which party has been in favour of it throughout the term of office. The Moderates want to see a national begging ban and the possibility of depriving IS warriors of citizenship. Last Monday, they wanted to tighten the penalties for sexual crimes. The Liberals went out yesterday and wanted to abolish the general two-thirds release, and the Alliance wants to abolish various penalty rebates. Guess which party has proposed all this throughout the term of office. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats are Sweden's leading criminal political party, and although you will never admit it, you show with ever more frequent intervals that the Swedish democrats have been right. Mr President, I would like to The attacks on the judiciary are the subject of this debate. Some parties here in Parliament are probably still sitting as a question mark and wondering what this development is due to. Open borders, uncontrolled immigration and tax resources that divide society would create a harmonious, multicultural society – you thought. The Swedish Democrats have also been the most perceptive party here when it comes to the basic conditions that create contradictions, alienation and explosive segregation. In the 21st century, the Alliance and the Red-Green have been taking turns to be responsible for development, and now you have got exactly what you wanted. The society as it stands today is not due to bad luck. It has been created with conscious political decisions by both the Alliance and the Red-Green parties. To begin with, your immigration policy has resulted in extreme exclusion, alienation that serves as a horror example for our Nordic neighbours. It is these exclusions that form the basis for the growing contempt for society and its representatives through our authorities. Perhaps the police authority is the authority that has faced the clearest hatred and contempt that you have deliberately cultivated in our country. We've seen police stations being shot at and bombed as punishment for the police doing their job. Policemen are threatened and subjected to armed violence in their mission and homes. During this term of office, with Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister, the situation has become worse every year. The number of areas where criminal actors move forward has increased drastically, and it cannot have escaped anyone that violence within and between criminal networks has put terror in more and more residential areas when the shots hit innocent people's windows and murders occurred outside their doors. Mr President, I would like to Are we really going to allow those in power, opportunity and ultimate responsibility for this development to have continued confidence to govern our country for another term of office? I will do everything in my power not to do so, but I would nevertheless like to thank the Liberals for the initiative for this debate. The more debates we have on this subject, the greater the opportunity for voters to understand that the Liberals are not the answer. The Alliance is not the answer, and the Red Green Government is definitely not the answer. The answer to how best to solve the problems created by these parties is even seeking themselves at ever more frequent intervals in the policy of the Swedish Democrats. If we had had the power of government in this country during this term of office, no party in this House would have felt that this debate was necessary. Our policy would have resulted in more policemen instead of more criminals. We had also made it easier for serious criminals to be prosecuted and imprisoned with harsher restrictions and for much longer than any other party has advocated in this Assembly. But the Swedish Democrats do not have 50% of the votes, and we are unlikely to get it after the next elections either. At most, we may get 49%, so we will need other parties to get our policy through. That is why I am asking you now: call your respective offices! Ask them to start the copy machine, because in my next speech I will present parts of a necessary criminal policy that you have not yet had time to copy.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-534	Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to thank Liberal Roger Haddad for this debate, because it is important. I would also like to thank all the police officers who will either now or in the future listen to or read this debate. I would like to thank them for the incredibly important work they do out in our elongated country. They are worthy of all respect, support and honour for the work they do to maintain order in our country, regardless of where, in everything from the villa society to the millions programme area. We have a major challenge in Sweden today when it comes to vulnerable areas and attacks on the judiciary. But this situation has not surfaced in a day or at the moment. It is a situation that has been known for quite some time. For me it was most obvious – or I woke up to, I will honestly say – one morning in Södertälje 2005, when I was a municipal councillor there, when we were told that a local alcohol inspector, Mats Hansson, had had a bomb placed on his car. Why? Well, he did not lose weight in the face of organized crime. Or in 2006, when unfortunately so far unknown fired shots at the police station in Södertälje. What we went through then in Södertälje meant that we were in the lead, so to speak. We were ahead of the rest of Sweden in this development. It was a terrible, miserable, deplorable position to take the lead in such a development with organised crime. But thanks to good work and great improvisation ability we have also come somewhere in Södertälje. And thanks to the fact that, during this term of office, we have finally got the laws in place to break down organised crime and thanks to cooperation between authorities – things that at the time had to be improvised between the authorities and the municipality – Södertälje has learned a lot. That is why I am choosing here and now to talk a great deal about this. It's about trust in government. It is something that we in Sweden have been very proud of – that we can trust our authorities. We have a long tradition ever since Axel Oxenstierna in the 17th century by strong authorities. But that is no longer the case automatically, for today it is not the case that you automatically believe or trust authorities. That is what we need to rebuild, and we need the police and the authorities to cooperate. I was in Södertälje two weeks ago and visited local police chief Max Åkerwall together with my parliamentary colleague from Malmö, Rasmus Ling. We asked him how he is now. Yes, he said, it's not that organized crime has disappeared. But it's repressed. Many of the gang leaders, the main criminals, are locked up after being convicted in court. The operations are still in place, but the municipality and the police have won the land. The big venture Tore II has produced results. It's probably there, I realized when I listened to Rasmus Ling from Malmö, as Södertälje is ahead of the rest of Sweden in the development. We asked what the difference is, what it is that does this. Well, something very simple: a very close cooperation between the police and the municipality, between the civil authorities and the police – and of course enough resources. After all, the Minister of Justice has just explained and described the efforts the government has made. They lay the foundations for progress. This is what it is about now: to take this on board and see that it is not just about the police. It is about the police and civil society, which together will build confidence, push back organised crime and thereby win this battle.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-545	Mr President, I would like to This debate is about appalling events that affect people and, by extension, threaten our common security – the very foundation of our legal society. Politicians have a responsibility to see what happens in society. But our task is not only to see what is happening but also to act quickly and clearly. We also have a responsibility to stay balanced, not to blame everything that is wrong with a particular group and, above all, to find sustainable solutions that protect people. Over the past few years, the reports have been rife with police and emergency personnel on duty who have been hit by stoning and sabotage of vehicles. That, according to the Center Party, is totally unacceptable. The Police Association recently conducted a member survey showing that seven out of ten police officers feel that the vulnerability to threats and violence has increased over the last two years. They feel that it is now part of the normal picture that young people collectively attack the police. Violence, threats and stones have normalized and become everyday. In addition, in recent months a number of police officers and their relatives have been subjected to serious crimes outside of their duties. A relative of a police officer was subjected to a kidnapping attempt. A police officer with a family in Västerås was shot at in the apartment in the middle of the night, and another police officer in Örebro was recently exposed to a stone's throw at the dwelling. Events like these are attacks not only on people – it's bad enough – but on the justice system itself, which creates the whole basis for our security and makes us put children into the world, start businesses and want to go to school and work. It's an attack on all of us! It is the dream of many children and young people to become police officers. Working with something that is the very basis for the stability of society, for our security and the maintenance of order should not be a fear of their own, their partners or the safety of their children. You have the right to feel safe and have the support of the rest of society. No one who has chosen to enter the profession of police, ambulance or rescue services should be concerned that the family may suffer from the professional choice they have made. There are many dedicated employees in the police, but more and more police officers find the work situation difficult and are thinking about leaving the profession. We have heard that this is already happening. If you add to this the fear of threats to yourself as a private individual and to the family, it is not difficult to imagine how the discussion goes at home in a family where someone has chosen the police profession. Combating organised crime is perhaps the most important legal policy task we have at the moment. The police have a central role to play in creating security and in limiting and solving crimes. Mr President, I would like to A new leadership for Sweden is needed. Heavy resource reinforcements to the police are necessary. The Center Party wants to invest nearly SEK 1 billion more than the government in the judiciary to create security. Most of the money is needed to raise the salaries of police officers. New legislation is needed with a stronger grip on weapons offences and serious violent crimes, and violence against civil servants must be taken more seriously – this in order to put an end to the crime that we see as wanting to take over Sweden. The new proposals that the government has finally put forward to tighten the penalties for weapons crimes are good, but they are not enough. A particularly serious gun crime must bring a particularly severe penalty – as when teenagers are out riding taxis with five kalashnikovs. It is good that the government is raising the penalties for the other weapons crimes, but leaving the upper bar for extremely serious crimes is not enough. Although heavy consultation bodies such as the Prosecutor's Office and Svea Court of Appeal highlight the importance of raising the maximum penalty even for the extremely serious crimes, the government chooses not to touch this, which the Center Party, together with the Alliance, wants to change. Cops shouldn't have to put up with being spit in the face or having rocks thrown at them. These are examples of violation not only of people but of the entire judicial system. Mr President, I would like to The Alliance has, through an announcement to the government, pushed for policemen's right to compensation in the event of serious violations to be investigated. For difficult reasons, the government parties voted against it. But now, in the end, the government has seen the importance of investigating this. It's good, but it's late. It's always the Alliance that takes precedence. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, police officers are used to being exposed to threatening or violent situations in the ministry, but we can never accept that they are subjected to violence or threats. The disrespect we see against police officers is worrying because it is contagious. Violence against officials should always lead to at least six months in prison. When committing crimes such as stoning of police or rescue services and attacks on other essential functions of society, this must lead to increased penalties. The government is dragging its legs while the Center Party and the Alliance are firing. When those who are supposed to protect our democracy and our judicial system are threatened, then we are all threatened. We have a government and a Minister of Justice who is piling up and thinks that they have taken on the challenges we have. But if the Alliance hadn't pushed, we wonder how much of what had actually happened. Increased possibilities for violation compensation for police officers, sharper arms laws and increased protection for all kinds of bluelight personnel are some issues where the Alliance wants to push on while the government is dragging its legs. The government has developed a behavior in which they first say no to proposals from the Center Party and the Alliance and then fish them on the other side of the water and present them as freshly caught fish. We must give greater rights to compensation for violations and give the police more resources to access the ugliest fish.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-564	Mr President, I would like to Over the past few months, we have seen several very brutal attacks on police officers and other blue-light personnel. It has been about stoning, cut-up tires, fires and other sabotages, but also about pure violence, threats and shootings with weapons. The explosion of the entrance to the police house in Helsingborg has been mentioned, as well as the terrible shooting at the policeman's and his family's house in Västerås. This is totally unacceptable. Any attack on the police and other practitioners of what we are deciding on in this House is totally unacceptable and one too many. We cannot waltze with those who carry out these acts. The perpetrators must be sought, captured and brought to justice. Where offenders are minors, social services, schools and families must be immediately involved. Major criminals are to be watched on a point-by-point basis. Arms laws should be tightened up, and I am very pleased that we now agree on this across party boundaries. More priority must be given to economic crime, because it breeds other forms of crime. Drug trafficking, too, must be given even greater priority. But we must also talk about the fact that the vast majority of the serious criminals in our country are men. Visibility and questioning of poor gender roles and sexist behaviour is therefore also a crime prevention act. These are examples of urgent issues that we need to address immediately. All police officers, ambulance drivers, firefighters and firewomen are the heroes of society. They're in the front line saving lives. They should be able to continue to do so without fear of being resisted in any way possible. But it's also about the residents in areas where there have sometimes been concerns. Of course, all residents of Sweden should be able to feel safe. Therefore, an assault on a police officer, an ambulance man or an ambulance woman is also an assault on those living in the area. That is why, in the budget that the Left Party is involved in supporting once again, I would like to emphasise, we are spending more money on the police. The police should be able to get more employees, be able to solve more crimes and generally get better working conditions. This is also why we are investing more in police training so that we can have more police officers, at the Forensic Centre so that we can clarify more crimes and strengthen the working environment and career opportunities for police officers. I note that the bourgeois parties also want to allocate increased resources to the police. It is good that we agree on this. But is more resources enough for the police? No, just as important is to build a society that is connected, a society that is safe and stable. Here I am not quite so sure that we have the bourgeois parties with us to the full. Throughout the Western world, we have seen a sharp increase in gaps in recent decades. The richest have become richer and the poorest have become poorer. Mass unemployment has stuck. In fact, Sweden is the OECD country where the gaps have increased fastest. At the same time, we have a society in which the public sector has become increasingly smaller. We have relatively less resources for schools, health care, care for the elderly and youth activities today than before. What do you think happens in a society where the super-rich draw away and live a life in luxury bubbles while big grups in society are left behind? I believe that we have a society of tensions – tensions between town and country, between rich and poor, between different residential areas and between different youth gangs. In short, we will have a society that no longer stands together. This is a development that frankly scares me. We cannot create a society that stays together by simply calling for more police officers. That is simply not enough. We must also have preventive measures. For example, all schools must be equally good. If we really mean what we say, it means that some schools with greater needs must be able to have more resources than other schools. This also means that some residential areas need to be fundamentally renovated. Then we must ensure that all the resources end up in those neighbourhoods. There must be meaningful activities for young people in every neighborhood. In the summer, young people should be offered summer jobs. Participation in the cultural school must be free of charge. Young people should be able to travel free of charge in public transport. Sport and cultural activities should be open and inclusive. There should be youth centres and rehearsal facilities for all young people who want to do such things. That is why I am pleased and proud that my party is supporting a budget that greatly increases investment in these activities. It is about reforms and investments of 40 billion and annual investments of 10 billion to municipalities and county councils. But it is also about us making earmarked investments in police and other blue-light personnel. We have to do this, because we want a Sweden where everyone has the same conditions – a Sweden that stays together.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-580	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals have asked for this special debate. This is not really a new issue that we are now dealing with. It sounds like it's only now that we realize how serious the situation is. When I stood here in June 2015, when we had asked for a special debate on the particularly vulnerable areas, the government chose to be represented by the Minister of State Ibrahim Baylan, who, admittedly, tried to participate in the debate constructively by talking about integration efforts at school. But the problem in the affected areas, two and a half years later, is that serious crime is on the increase. The lack of consideration in serious crimes is increasing and the number of particularly vulnerable areas is increasing. In parallel, we have fewer and fewer police officers in Sweden and fewer and fewer police officers in external service. There are fewer police officers in Sweden today than when the Alliance was in charge in 2010 and in the 2014 survey. Why, then, is this important? The Government of Johansson himself was concerned about the number of police officers. But let me touch that part. It is the police that are our main means of maintaining law and order, and the police presence should be closer to the citizens. Instead, however, we have come further from the citizens. We have allowed criminals, either indirectly or directly, to operate undisturbed in many of these areas. This is not a new problem, but the situation has exceeded all limits. In August 2015, a hand grenade was thrown at a police bus in Tumba. What was even more provocative was that when the sentence came in March 2016, the 18-year-old offender was convicted of other crimes but not for the hand grenade throwing against a bus where there were four policemen. There were 105 holes in the police bus, which stood on a street corner and guarded a place in the Stockholm area. In fact, the four policemen could have been killed by this shrapnel grenade. It is extremely serious that the whole judiciary does not look tougher on these incidents. Those who work as police officers and are our ultimate protection in this society must feel extra support. We also see that people in the affected areas do not dare to witness. People don't dare stand up and tip off. People dare not tell the school, and even the teachers dare not tell the police if they hear that someone has committed a crime. This culture of silence, this criminal development and the pressure used by criminals are very alarming and damaging to our democracy. We have mentioned Västerås. I myself live in Västerås, where a police officer was exposed in his own home, possibly as a way to shut him up and scare him because he is a police officer. I read an article by Åsa Wulff of the Skåne Police Department. She explains how she got protected identity and had to move to another municipality because she works as a police officer and because she has stood up to the bully and the criminals. It is remarkable that she then lost her protected identity. It's extremely serious. The government is talking about sharper penalties. Regardless of what we have proposed earlier this autumn and during the spring, the government has unfortunately seen it as a matter of prestige, as Mr T Tomas said. If we've talked about the Blue Light investigation, we've been turned down. If we have talked about compensation for violations, we have also received a 'no' vote. We in the Alliance have certainly been constructive in the Committee on Justice, but why should we accept a 'no' when we suddenly make a deal here? If the government had seen this development in good time, it could have taken its own initiative and not waited for a year to set up a blue light investigation. Throughout 2016, the government talked about setting up a blue light investigation. It finally came, but we're losing speed and ground. We cannot decide to tighten the penalty for violence and threats against officials over a day. It shall be investigated, referred to and treated in the ordinary order of the Swedish Parliament. We haven't seen a single measure to lure back the hundreds of police officers who have quit. We have not seen any effort on customs this year or last year to get at the illegal introduction of the weapons used. There is no proposal in our amendment to strengthen customs. We made a proposal of SEK 100 million, but we were not supported by the government. It's not until next year. There's a lot coming next year, but unfortunately it's too late.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-592	Mr President, I would like to We are debating today the serious attacks that have been directed at police stations and individual police officers and their families. It is about hand grenades that have been thrown at more police stations, about the blast against the police station in Helsingborg and about the attack on a policeman's home in Västerås. Last summer, a relative of a police chief was subjected to kidnapping attempts. These are serious attacks on the whole of the judiciary and, by extension, on our entire democratic system. The fact that this is a criminal tactic is becoming increasingly clear, and it must be met with strong measures. Mr President, I would like to Some of the measures that the Christian Democrats and the Alliance have driven us to do are about punitive measures. It is a question of punitive measures in the area of violence against officials and serious weapons offences. This is where the Alliance has been pushing. But more is needed. There is more to be done to strengthen the position of the police. The police who are subjected to threats and violence must of course be entitled to compensation for violations, because we value their work. We take seriously the threats they face. No professional group, I dare say, needs to endure as much as the police. It should therefore be a matter of course that they receive compensation for violations. In order for violations, threats and violence to be documented, the police need more opportunity to be equipped with body cameras of the latest technology. It will be a protection both for the police officers who have cameras on them and for the people who are met by police in the streets and squares. Police officers who are on sick leave as a result of threats or violence they have been subjected to in the service need to receive a sickness benefit equivalent to 100 percent of their salary. For those police officers who choose to work in vulnerable areas, we think there should be a higher risk premium. It also needs, as a police officer in Helsingborg was on, to be more than a sign at a protective object. A protective object cannot be characterised only by the presence of a sign stating that it is a protective object. A much better shell protection is needed for many of the police stations in Sweden. There is also a need for better camera surveillance in connection with the country's police stations. Roger Haddad was in on the letter that Åsa Wulff wrote. I was also very touched by that letter and her story that it was difficult to get protected identity and that the protected personal data she had received had been taken away from her. It must be easier for police officers to obtain protected personal data. The data should not be out for everyone to collect on the internet. When the threats are sharpened, the legislation has to keep up with them. The openness that has characterized Sweden when it comes to individual people's private tasks is a gold mine for criminals. A review is needed, especially for vulnerable groups, as the police are. Several members of the Alliance have noted that seven out of ten police officers believe that the vulnerability has only increased in the last two years. We have a topical debate today, which I welcome. But the question is whether we should not have a constant debate in this House on the police crisis. Mr President, I would like to I would like to broaden the debate a little. We are talking about the attacks on the judiciary, but we also need to talk about the attacks on other vital parts of government and municipal activities and about how the core functions of welfare are under attack. Let me give you an example: barely a year ago, Mönsterås social welfare office had to move its entire business. A decision they had made was not appreciated by one person. That person gathered together a group that behaved in this office so threateningly that the safety of the staff could not be guaranteed. Watchers had to be called in, but it didn't help. Later that day they had to organize a relocation of the 20 employees who were allowed to continue working in a secret place. We see examples of schools that have to close temporarily because of threats and violence. Even the union estimates that it is simply too dangerous for both students and teachers to go to school. Mr President, I would like to It can be repeated: Schools in Sweden are deemed to be such a dangerous work environment that they are closed down. What it looks like in libraries in several places, we know for a long time. When a limit is overcrowded, it is easy to take the next step. That is why the reactions must come early and quickly. Mr President, I would like to In order to combat threats and violence affecting police officers, more police officers are needed. Therefore, it is with rising frustration that I read Svenska Dagbladet today. It reveals that the number of police officers on duty today, excluding leave of absence and parental leave, is down to 18,361. Over 800 policemen have quit this year. The government is happy to talk widely about how much they invest in the police. We heard Morgan Johansson talking about it in the speaker's seat just now too. But everyone sees what happens. Every month the police are shaken by new information. There are more people who are victims of crime. It's cops who end prematurely. If this information is correct – none of the government representatives have responded to this – we can note that three years ago it was said: 19 000 or 20 000 police officers do not play a big role. Does the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs not realise that the government's disregard for the number of police officers has exacerbated the police crisis that we are seeing today?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-607	Mr President, I would like to It is easy for a discussion like this to concern precisely the number of police officers. I welcome such a discussion. When you discuss with the alliance parties about the number of police officers, one of my main questions is: Why did you train so few police officers if you wanted more police officers? Year after year during your reign, you trained 600 to 700 police officers per year. An ordinary year, between 400 and 500 police officers retire. You're telling me 800 people have quit this year. Then you forget to mention that half of them have retired. It's about there. It is 400 – 500 who retire each year. Then you cannot have an education rate of between 600 and 700 per year. That margin is far too small. It's got to go up. That is precisely why we have now doubled admission to police training. 1,300 have started their police training this year. The Moderates say they want to make the biggest effort on the police force in 20 years. Yeah, but we already do. We are going in with just over 7 billion over the next three years. That's 2 billion already from next year. You ruled for eight years. You increased police spending by about 5 billion, in eight years. At the same time, you reduced the tax by 140 billion. It shows a little what priorities you did. Roger Haddad says he hasn't seen a bet on customs. Read the budget! There's a bet on customs. But the basic problem in your years was that you had other priorities. That's it. When you in the Alliance choose between reduced tax and increased funding to the police, you always choose reduced tax. The problem for you in the Alliance is and has been that it is very easy for you to stand and talk in opposition but that you never deliver once you end up in government. You complain about us and say, "It's going too slow. You should do more. From the Ministry of Justice, we have so far submitted 115 proposals to this House. They've all been through in Parliament. I drew some of them in the past when it comes to penalties, but that also applies to a lot of other things. What we are now investing in is precisely more police officers, punitive measures aimed at organised crime, increased camera surveillance and secret coercive measures. In this way, with such measures, we are sure that the gangs can be broken. It has also been demonstrated. I thought that Mats Pertoft showed it very clearly when it comes to Södertälje. It is possible to break these gangs if one gathers around a common task. But don't forget, we're not just talking about the police. It has to be wider. I've been working on these issues for almost 20 years. The professional group I meet most and have talked to most is the police. Only this autumn have I been in Malmö, Gothenburg, Helsingborg, V Ästernorrland and Södertälje. Yesterday, I met the police at Södermalm, at the Civic Square. When you talk to policemen in the field, they often say two things. One is: Yes, we need to be more. Yes, we need better tools. The second is, remember, it's not just about us. There must be a school that works in these areas. There must be a leisure activity that works for the children who are about to get into trouble. There must be a social service that can intervene and, for example, make LVU transfers or other open social contributions. We must also be able to finance this with tax revenue. Then, at one end, we cannot always give priority to tax cuts while at the other end we cut this kind of welfare effort. Then there must be enthusiasts in Organisationssverige – in sport and in culture – who can contribute in their own way. We must fight both the crimes and the causes of the crimes.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-619	Mr President, I would like to We are currently in a situation in Sweden where the rule of law is being challenged. We have a police crisis, and we have a Minister of Justice who participates in the debate and wants to try to claim that the main problem is that the Alliance reduced the tax. That is correct – the Alliance lowered the tax, and we basically think it should pay off to work. But the Alliance also saw to it that the number of police officers increased to 20,000. Now the Minister of Justice is saying that the government also wants to invest in the police and that the government also wants the number of police officers to be increased. But is there anyone in this House who seriously believes that we should be able to attract more experienced police officers to remain in the profession and that we should get record numbers to go to the police profession without a targeted effort at massively increased police salaries? I seriously wonder if the Minister of Justice really means it. How can we cope with this great task if we are not prepared to invest in increased police salaries? I also think it is high time we thought about penalties. Here, too, the government beats its chest and says that it also wants to tighten the penalties. That is all well and good when we can agree and make a common cause in this House. But let me give another example of something that we must do: we need to abolish today's form of quantity rebate. It is not reasonable that we have lifestyle criteria that commit crimes after crimes, but that we judge by criminal value. This is even a health and safety issue for the country's police officers, who feel that it is hardly worth working to investigate some of the crimes, as they hardly get any penalty value. It is claimed that we are now going to break the criminal gangs, but what is the reality? The number of vulnerable areas is increasing. Organised crime is gaining control over an increasing number of areas. We are prepared to give all our support to any proposals that could push this back. Let me make a few suggestions: 中 In the face of a gang rule – give the gang criminals double punishment. Make sure to get the leaders out of these areas, so that they can't easily recruit young people every day into a life of crime. Give the police proper powers in the areas. Why, for example, does the government delay proposals to allow the police to set up cameras in vulnerable areas, and why does it not give the police proper opportunities to use zone bans? There are many suggestions. We Moderates will be willing to compromise, but the main point is that we have a government that talks but does not act. I believe that this is an issue that is so central to Swedish society that it is not good enough to try to stand and talk about that the main problem is that we have a slightly different view of economic policy. The basis is that we need to make record investments in the judiciary, regardless of government. It is time for the Minister of Justice to start taking responsibility for what is now happening in Sweden. We're having a police crisis. We have a security crisis. Now is the time to act.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-633	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I believe that we in this House can agree that it is organised crime and the criminal networks that are the main problem in terms of attacks on the rule of law. The solution is therefore found in the proposals that best break down criminal networks and punish their members so hard that they will not even dare go against red man if they are released again. For this, the Swedish Democrats have for a long time put forward quite comprehensive legislative proposals. To begin with, I can again present our DIKO laws – DIKO stands for participation in criminal organisations. We therefore want to criminalise the participation itself in a criminal organisation, so that, for example, leading people in criminal networks can be prosecuted and imprisoned even if they themselves have not committed any criminal act for their network. The inspiration comes from U.S. RICO laws, which in the U.S. is believed to have been crucial to breaking down mafia-like organizations. If prosecutors wish to launch a preliminary investigation into a criminal network, they should be able to apply for specific powers if it is a DIKO case. It is about making it easier to use wiretaps to collect evidence of crime. It is also important to relax the rules on how the evidence can be used as a basis for prosecution. In addition to the lack of criminalisation of organised crime, it is precisely the evidence of crime that is a problem. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats also want to introduce, among other things, a Crown Witness system, which allows the police to have room for manoeuvre to get criminals to testify against other criminals. No police officer will ever be able to sit on as much information about the criminals as the criminals themselves do. If we open up the possibility for the judiciary to start obtaining information from criminals in this way, we will receive invaluable information in the fight against criminal networks. Cops around the country testify to the fact that during the government's sabbatical in criminal policy, criminal networks have managed to build up a capital of violence that frightens all witnesses to silence. In order to resolve such problems, the Swedish Democrats have proposed that the police should be able to use camera surveillance more easily, even in residential areas. This can have several advantages: A criminal act can get caught on film, escape routes can be ensured and witnesses found nearby can be identified. Witnesses of crimes linked to criminal networks should be able to be offered the opportunity to testify anonymously. We know that an anonymous witness is not as valuable as an ordinary witness, but we believe that an anonymous witness in these cases is better than no witness at all. Of course, we must also reconcile serious criminal acts with proper penalties. Today, we have a system in place where almost all life sentences are sentenced to their sentence of time. Having their sentence fixed in time, they serve in a true red - green spirit only two thirds of their sentence. Then they will be free, no matter how dangerous they are considered by the prison services. Prison services may even indicate that there is a real risk of recurrence of crime without society being able to take any further action. This allows dangerous terrorists, rapists and gross criminal gang members to be released when the fixed term sentence ends. In a new motion this year, the Swedish Democrats have proposed that people who have been sentenced to life sentences or for very serious crimes and who at the time of release are considered dangerous to the public should be able to have their fixed term sentence extended through detention. For us, it is not only important to ensure that dangerous individuals do not receive penalty discounts or conditional release – for us it is also important that there is the possibility of keeping them in prison if they are dangerous to the public.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-648	Mr President, I would like to I think this debate is too important to be wasted in lineing up proposals for punishment. The punishment is important. It is very important that the police have the resources to strike at organised crime and against all crime at all, to ensure security and to regain power in vulnerable areas. But it has to go further than that. Two weeks ago we were on a committee trip to the United States and visited Chicago and other vulnerable areas. I asked the police there what is the most important thing to change the reality of these areas. What is the most important thing to prevent the criminal gangs from getting new members? What is the most important thing for the future and for building the future? I expected something about punishment, increased resources, or more police officers, but the answer I received was: education and school. Several times I asked the question, and the answer was the same each time. Baltimore and Chicago agreed on this point: The most important thing is education and school. It is the networks – the social opportunities to build a future and a life. And that is what we have to do at the same time. We must ensure that the police have the means and the means to strike. That's why the government is making the biggest effort on the police in the budget now. At the same time, however, we need to make a major effort in education and training in the vulnerable areas. That is why the government is putting forward proposals with specifically targeted funds for schools in the affected areas. This must be done jointly. I asked the police in Södertälje, who stressed how important the extra resources have been, what it is that makes it possible for those in Södertälje to succeed in this. Well, something as simple as the district police chief at each municipal board meeting getting 15 minutes to speak to the political representatives without an agenda. In the most important political decision-making assembly of the municipality, where the important decisions are made, the police chief has an initial quarter at each meeting to give his picture of the needs. The social services have employees who sit in the police station. The public society – school, social services and care for the elderly – and the police work together all the way. This cooperation will build trust in the area, because we will never get witnesses to stand up, regardless of witness protection, if they do not trust society. This trust in society is also based on the fact that children feel that they have a good school, that the elderly feel that they have good care for the elderly and that social services experience security. We have such great confidence in society in Sweden. We must build on this, both with the police and with the rest of society, in order to build a safer Sweden. That is what it is all about, and that is why the government's budget looks like it does. We'll bet on the police and on the school. If we continue to do so, I believe we can succeed in this fight, but it is not easy.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-656	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Liberals are today highlighting an issue that may be one of the most important that we have in Sweden now. If we fail, it will damage the foundations of our society so that it will be very difficult to repair them. When policemen and their relatives feel insecure because of their professional choices, it rings on the water that creates insecurity throughout the country. More severe penalties for violence against civil servants and serious violent crimes are important, police officers are given greater rights to compensation for violations and the police are given more resources to increase wages. Education is not the only answer to the question of how to persuade police officers to remain in office. The parties will of course determine wages, but when we see how the situation escalates, we must give the employer the opportunity to do what is necessary to retain staff and recruit those women and men who may have already trained and have the best conditions for this important profession. Mr President, I would like to The culture of silence spreads in the hardest-pressed areas. This means that organised crime in Sweden consolidates its position. Crime wants to transfer the culture of silence to the judiciary by scaring individual police officers into silence or making them leave the profession. I can't let that happen. And that is what we are discussing now, not historic budgetary efforts or all the Alliance's reforms for jobs, education and business. To stop the rise of organized crime, the Center Party wants to invest more in witness protection, so that people who have something to say dare to testify and criminals dare to leave the gangs behind. We also want responsibility to be transferred from social services to the police, who will then be responsible for both protection and support to witnesses. It is necessary for people to be able to leave a criminal life behind. Most important to remedy the serious crime and threats and violence against the police is that the police and the rest of the judiciary are locally based, and other speakers have taken note of this. We also know that serious organised crime can be stopped with local crime prevention work by municipalities and their politicians, property owners, police and local companies working together. That is why, among other things, we in the Center Party are investing in local crime prevention work in our budget. We want to give municipalities the opportunity to get financial help with security-building urban planning, and here I come as a spokesperson for housing policy. For this we have set aside SEK 70 million more than the government in Category 18. Not anywhere in Sweden should criminals be able to use a lack of planning of existing residential areas to prevent police, rescue services or health professionals from helping residents. They should not be able to hide and throw stones or in other ways cause fear and anxiety. Mr President, I would like to Camera monitoring is also something that needs to be used more to counteract the culture of silence. Simplifying police surveillance would be a major step towards obtaining evidence against those who commit crimes against police officers. The Center Party, together with the Alliance, wants an announcement on how the police will be allowed to use camera surveillance to a greater extent than today in areas where crime is greatest. Mr President, I would like to Again, the government is dragging its legs and the Alliance is pushing. It is clear that a new leadership for Sweden is needed.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-665	Mr President, I would like to There are several things that we agree on in this debate. We fully agree that serious crime must be combated much harder than it is now. We fully agree that the attacks on police, blue-light personnel and the judiciary are totally unacceptable and must have consequences. We also agree relatively that the police need more resources, although we do not fully agree on how to fund them. We in the Left Party support a budget which over the next three years will allocate more than 7 billion more, that is, new money, to the police. Then more will be able to be hired, we will be able to expand police training, we will be able to have more police officers who prevent and solve crimes, better career opportunities for police and so on. However, there are a number of issues concerning precisely the work of the police, where I feel that we may not be in full agreement. I simply have a number of questions after listening to the bourgeois representatives. I could go to Roger Haddad. It is you in the Liberals who have asked for this debate. When I hear you, Roger, there's a lot of talk about harsher punishment. You are also in your speeches on quite a few details which I am not quite sure we politicians here in Parliament can regulate. What I would like to hear more from the Liberals is the role of the police in prevention. Do the Liberals, like us in the Left Party, believe that there should be more local police officers, district police officers, can we call them, who know virtually all the young people who hang out in the square, in the youth yard and outside the school by name – that trust and respect are built for each other? I don't think any youth will go and cut up the car tires when you know that the police here are called Maria, Tobias, Roger or anything else. How do the Liberals view this? How do bourgeois parties view the possibility of developing preventive cooperation between police and social services, between police and schools, between police and youth centres and associations? When I hear the representatives of the bourgeois parties speaking, it sounds like serious crime, which is totally reprehensible, exists in a bubble of its own. I don't think so, Tomas Tobé. If a society has been dismantled for decades, if schools fail, if youth centres, libraries, rehearsal facilities and other leisure activities are closed, what does it leave our young people for? I am not saying in any way that they should go and cut up the tires of a police car, but I am afraid that young people who do not have meaningful leisure activities are a breeding ground for serious crime. I would like to hear the Moderates talk more about preventive work and about the need for resources to build a society that sees all citizens – a society where we redistribute from Danderyd to northern Järva and ensure that all schools, including those in northern Botkyrka and Rosengård, are as good as those in Bromma, Stockholm, for example. But that is the weak point of the bourgeoisie. You don't want to redistribute from rich to poor. You do not want to raise taxes to have more money to invest in welfare and prevention. Please answer this!
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-674	Mr President, I would like to I really appreciate Jens Holm's question. The Liberals and I personally are the ones who have asked the most questions in the Swedish parliament about the district police, i.e. the old local police or the district police. It is important to get back to the number of police officers and that it has decreased compared to 2010 and 2014. As we lose more and more police officers, there is no ability both to intervene against the serious crime, which is the focus today, and to carry out the important crime prevention work. Punishment or school- there are no contradictions. We invest in the school in our budget but also in the police. When I visit schools, when I visited Coop in Fagersta the other day, or when I visit other representatives, they say that they need investments in school, but also policemen who have time to visit the school, because that's where the recruitment for drug sales and young criminals take place. If we do not find the contact areas and can create trust and trust between police and young people, we get this development, just as Jens Holm said. Mr President, I would like to The police confirm that they are unable to carry out their mission with regard to the important crime prevention work. That is why the Alliance repeatedly reminds the government that during this government Sweden has received fewer police officers in the country and fewer police officers in external service and that the police have come further from the citizens. The situation is so serious that the Swedish police must also give priority to serious crimes, including reported rapes. Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Justice is a little dishonest in this debate. You can actually, like the Alliance, both lower taxes and invest in the police. The police's budget increased every year with the alliance government. In 2011, 2013 and 2014 we trained more police officers than in 2015 when you were in charge. In 2012, we trained more police officers than in 2016. The valet, i.e. those who quit and left the police profession, was also not as dramatic as it has been since 2015. These withdrawals are, of course, due to different things. Therefore, it is important to invest in the work environment, higher wages and so on. To the Green Party about the penalties: Yes, you attack a police station you have to get a higher penalty. If you attack a police officer in a car and commit violence against a civil servant, we must raise the minimum penalty to six months in prison. Is the Green Party against such an increase in punishment? If so, give the message! We need to increase the penalties for gun crimes because they are extremely serious weapons crimes. We cannot have a system in which five automatic carbines are not considered to be a particularly serious weapon offence. Liberals also have other proposals. We want to tighten the law against the smuggling of weapons. I mentioned earlier the reinforcement of customs. Since last spring we also have on the table that we want to make it easier for the police to set up cameras for crime prevention purposes. To sum up: the credibility of the police policy of the Social Democrats is zero. In the run-up to this year, you just wanted to spend $100 million on the police. Why didn't you come up with this historic venture already last autumn?
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-683	Mr President, I would like to I could continue where Roger Haddad left off. He asked: Why did you not come up with this historic venture last autumn? I ask: why didn't you come up with this historic venture three years ago, instead of, according to Svenska Dagbladet, glaring that it doesn't matter if it's 19 000 or 20 000 police officers? I asked the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs whether he does not believe that this casual attitude has actually affected and exacerbated the police crisis. I expect an answer. If you trample a social democrat on a sore toe in a debate, there will be an automatic answer in the line: tax cuts. They can always pull out that card. They have learned, perhaps in their education, that they can always tackle tax cuts. The problems for Morgan Johansson are three. Firstly, the major tax cuts have meant that more people have come to work and that tax revenues into the state have not been reduced, but we have been able to invest a lot in the police and other areas. Secondly, Morgan Johansson and the Social Democrats have largely accepted every single one of these tax cuts. Thirdly, these tax cuts, for example, have given a policeman about one month's salary more a year in pure money. We're not happy. We want to raise police salaries further. It is one of our most important efforts to increase the attractiveness of the police profession and attract more people to education. We want to review working conditions and improve the working environment. We would like to see the ob-reimbursement raised, and we want more police officers. This is an important part of our commitment to greater security. It is also an important part of what we are debating, namely how to deal with the attacks on the police. The most important answer is: more police are needed. The police are not the answer to all the problems that Jens Holm was dealing with. Of course, prevention is important. The need for district polices for prevention is something that we Christian Democrats often highlight. Schools need to know that there is a police presence if something should happen but also to be able to ask for advice and ball different things in tough situations so that teachers feel safe in their work. I talked to my old teacher only yesterday, and he told me how important it was that the district police were near Trollehöjdskolan in Mullsjö. However, due to resource problems, the police can no longer be in Mullsjö but must be in other priority areas. It's serious. We need to invest heavily in preventive work in order to strengthen the link with the school and for an active civil society to be able to spread and feel secure. I was in Vivalla six months ago and met those who wander there. Many were mothers, and they were confident that they had a direct number for the district police that was out that night. A prerequisite for active work in schools and civil society with social measures for business start-ups in exclusion areas is a police presence that guarantees security. Mr President, I would like to Let me return to the article in Svenska Dagbladet. The government is guilty of the answer. Do you think it does not matter if Sweden has 19 000 or 20 000 police officers, why do you stand in Parliament today and talk about making such an historic effort? The government must take responsibility for the casual attitude it has taken, which has actually exacerbated the police crisis we are now seeing.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-694	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with the police salaries, which Tomas Tobé brought up. Of course we need increased police salaries. Right now, the parties – the Police Federation and the Police Authority – are negotiating the salaries of the future, for the next three years. I am following this, and I think it will be fine. Now there's money in the cash register for the police to distribute. It will be a good wage development, much better than they were during the year of the Alliance, because then nothing was done in that direction. We are making this a matter for the parties. We do not want a situation in which it is Parliament that should sit and decide on salaries. If we do so – that we start talking about police salaries here and that it is the Riksdag that will decide on them – we will soon have nurse salaries here too, and fire officers' salaries and medical salaries and a lot of other salaries that we will be sitting and deciding on. It's not working. It is up to the parties to make these agreements, and then it is up to them to put money into it. Tomas Tobé and a couple of you were annoyed that I said you reduced the tax by 140 billion and spent only 5 billion on the police. It was my way of showing you how to prioritise. My assumption is that if you continue to make such priorities, if you come back to government power, you would do exactly the same distribution again. Then we would stand there with the same situation and the same low rate of education. Andreas Carlson asked: Why didn't you bet earlier? But we had to deal first with your deficits – the budget deficit of 60 billion that we inherited from you. It is clear that public finances must be fixed up before major efforts can be made, and we have done so now. There are things you can never handle. You'll never make it through public finances, you'll never get through the jobs, and you'll never be able to start a new police training. The new police training courses that have been started have been arranged, and now we start two more in Malmö and West Sweden.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-700	Mr President, I would like to I think it has become quite clear to everyone who has followed this debate that we have a government that is trying to reduce the actual problems in society – that we have fewer police officers and a very worrying development of crime – and would like to talk about other policy areas. I'd love to. We have a whole electoral movement ahead of us where we can discuss whether we should reduce taxes on labour or invest in subsidies. But here today we have a responsibility to tell you what is our way to ensure that we get a rule of law that works in Sweden. I want everyone to feel safe about what the Moderates will prioritize. We will give priority to the Swedish police. We are now putting forward proposals for the biggest efforts in over 20 years. This is about 10 billion to the Swedish police. We will make a targeted wage effort, because it will be necessary, and of course it will have to be negotiated with the social partners. But increased police salaries are required if you are serious about 10,000 more police officers. The second promise is that we will tighten the penalties for criminals in our society. We must ensure that they receive higher penalties and that we remove a number of people from the affected areas over a long period of time. The third is that we will take control of the affected areas. We will give the police the necessary powers. And yes, Jens Holm, it is of course about investing in schools and creating faith in the future, but the answer is not increased tax even if it might please the Left Party parliamentary group. I believe that a job and a rule of law present are the beginnings of good faith in the future.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-706	Mr President, I would like to It is a very high tone in the debate, not least from the Liberals, who have initiated it. There's a lot of aggressive talk about the fact that we don't have enough cops today. We are now in the second half of 2017. If you wanted more police today, you would have invested money in it in the autumn 2014 budget. If we look back at what happened in autumn 2014, we see that the Liberals invested SEK 0 more than the government in training more police officers in Sweden. In fact, the entire Alliance invested SEK 0 more in training more police officers. That is why we have the number of police officers that we have today: you agreed with the government in autumn 2014 that we should not train more police officers. Mr President, I would like to In the debate, I hope that I have succeeded in highlighting the main problem and how best we can face it. Everything that the respective parties want to do, for obvious reasons, we do not have time to address in this debate. For us, it is important and most urgent to increase police capacity, tighten penalties and make it easier for the judiciary to collect sufficient evidence that can lead to more convictions. That is why we will continue to push for increased resources for the police and justice system. We will promote our DIKO laws against organised crime, try to introduce a Crown Witness system, make it easier for the police to use camera surveillance, make it possible to testify anonymously and of course ensure that really dangerous terrorists, rapists and gang members are not released if there is a real risk of a relapse in crime. Thank you again for the initiative for this debate. If I could ask for approval, Mr President, that would be for everything I have said.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-712	Mr President, I would like to I should like to begin by responding to a few comments. To Mr Roger: I will not do you the service of living up to prejudice around the Green Party. We want to bet on a stronger cop. We are behind the government's budget, which we have been involved in, with strong efforts at both the police and the judiciary. That is what is needed today in Sweden; we do not need to disagree on this issue. The problem is that this has been established much earlier. In my first post I quoted events from 2005, the year before the Alliance took over. I did not see the investments in security that we had needed over the eight years. Now we are working hard to get them in place, and there are many laws in place. We are investing in the police and the judiciary, and this should provide us with the security that we need. We take responsibility for this, so that Sweden can be more secure. Let's do it together. I think everyone in this room wants to see security, and security is both a big investment in the police and a big investment in school and education to create a safer Sweden, especially in the vulnerable areas. That is what the people have chosen us for. Let's agree on that!
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-716	Mr President, I would like to In the debate that has taken place today, we have largely spoken past each other, as is customary, but it has nevertheless become clear that the government is dragging its legs and that the Center Party and the Alliance are pushing on. It is clear that a new leadership for Sweden is needed. One thing I want to say to Jens Holm is that preventive work is about getting more people into work, creating conditions for companies and opportunities for people to choose school for their children and that we get a functioning housing market that leads away from exclusion. But now we are not talking about this, we are talking about attacks on blue-light personnel. There's another picture in my cell phone. The EU summit in Gothenburg starts this weekend. Outside the town hall at home in Kungsbacka were about ten piket buses parked. The police monitoring the summit are spending the night at our city hotel. Let us thank them for what they are doing, for we can expect that what they will have to endure during this time is exactly what we are talking about. Let us hope and believe that it will not be as bad as we have feared. The police in Gothenburg have warned people to even get to work during these days. Let us thank the police for the efforts they make there and in other contexts around our society and throughout our country. I would like to thank the Liberals, who have initiated this debate.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-721	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank the Liberals, and in particular Roger Haddad, for initiating this important debate. This debate has made some things clear. It has made it clear that we agree on a number of things, namely that the attacks on the judiciary and blue-light personnel are totally unacceptable and that there are serious criminal gangs in our country that need to be monitored, sought out, captured and prosecuted. There is no doubt about this. We also agree that the police need more resources to do this important job. There's been some number bingo here and back. But at least we can agree that we need to invest a lot more in the police. I am also pleased to hear from the Liberals and the Christian Democrats, for example, that the police must be a natural part of preventive work. But I would like to hear it a little more naturally from you when you speak, because there will be much talk of harsher penalties and technicalities back and forth. Then there is the second part, and that is the overall preventive work. I don't think these attacks happen in a bubble, no matter how terrible they are. I think they are a reflection of a society that has become harder, a society with increased divides, a society where super-rich go and where large groups in our country are left out. Then I do not think it is credible to reduce taxes on high-income earners and large companies, because we need every penny to invest in our areas that so badly need a new youth farm, which needs more teachers in school and so on. Thank you for this debate.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-726	Mr President, I would like to In recent months, of course, I have followed the dramatic events that hit a police family in Västerås, because I live there. A few months ago I visited Hallstahammar in my constituency where the police station got its entrance blown away. A few days ago I also visited Helsingborg a few days after the horrendous attack on the police station, where the entire entrance was blown away, and there were major injuries all the way down to the garage and up to the roof. So powerful was that explosive device, where the criminals wanted to mark the ruthless way they are working to silence and intimidate our socially important functions. We asked for this debate to show that the situation is very worrying. Then things have happened in Stockholm suburbs, in Växjö, in Katrineholm and several areas, and the situation is worrying. An important message from the Liberals is to stop the police dropout and lure back the hundreds of police officers who have stopped. They are now trying to review the working environment to keep police officers. But nothing is being done to lure back the hundreds of police officers who left the agency in 2015, 2016 and 2017. Today, we have fewer police officers and fewer police officers in external service. That is why we cannot even face up to police presence in the affected areas. That is why you can live fairly as a criminal without legal intervention. That is what concerns people, and that is what should worry us in Parliament. We will tighten the penalties, and we will invest more in the police. But the government has not done so in the last three years; that is the message. That is the consequence of the policy we are seeing today.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-729	Mr President, I would like to I had in my closing speech intended to thank the Liberals for the initiative for this debate, I had intended to repeat some of the excellent proposals that we Christian Democrats have and I had intended to say how charged the Alliance is to take over government power to put a great deal right of what this government has late awakened and realised needs to be done. However, I will not do so, but I will be hanging on to an issue that I have actually touched on twice before in this debate. This is the result of the Rule which I have shown three times in this House this evening. These are things that the then Minister of the Interior allegedly said to the country's leading police chiefs, for example: 19 000 or 20 000 police officers do not matter. I have asked Morgan Johansson if this casual attitude has not exacerbated the police crisis that we are now seeing. I am absolutely convinced that 1 000 district police officers could have done an enormous amount of work to prevent crime, to relieve, help and support other good actors and forces in society that can work preventively. They would have been needed to ensure that we had not ended up in the situation we are now in with attacks on vital social functions, on police officers, on the homes of police families and on police stations. Mr President, I would like to So I repeat my question: Has not this casual attitude had an impact and exacerbated the police crisis that we are now seeing? The Minister of Justice has two minutes to answer this rather simple question, and I expect him to do so.
i-70665ae0cdc6bf77-733	Mr President, I would like to The government does not have a casual attitude regarding the number of police officers. The nonchalant is the one who trains 600 – 700 police officers per year when 400 – 500 retire at the same time. Then you're being casual. That is exactly what the bourgeois government did. That is why we are now living with a concern and a police shortage that we have to do something about, because it takes two and a half years to train new police officers. Mr President, I would like to Yesterday I was at Södermalm and met police officers there, among others the officers at Medborgarplatsen. I also met Ted Eriksson, the police officer who was stabbed at the National Square a few months ago. He has now been able to return to service. But things could have gone very badly for him. Ted and I had a good conversation, and he is an example of all the dedicated police officers who do a magnificent job every day for our security. We must keep this in mind all the time. This government's position is that these police officers should have the resources, tools and staffing they need to help uproot organised crime. There I am prepared to take all the measures needed to achieve this very thing. In fact, the claim that nothing is being done to recruit police officers is not true. I told you in my introductory statement that 150 police officers are on their way back just as a result of a recruitment campaign. We need to be prepared to deploy sufficient resources, and we are therefore expanding police training. There will be 10,000 more employees in the police organization by 2024. Then it is also a question of whether a government is actually prepared to give priority to this and not to give priority to other things. Mr President, I would like to We can crack these gangs. The state is always stronger than the gangs. But then it requires that we also be prepared to take the necessary measures.
