i-962b7263c844a818-20	Mr President, I would like to I suppose it's always been talked about matching problems in the labour market. Over the last 20 years we have talked about the need to be able to educate yourself throughout life – what is often called lifelong learning. The truth is that the needs have never been as great as now. It feels like we've been calling the wolf for decades, but now it's coming for real. The cashier in the grocery store is replaced by self-scanning. Apps are replaced with websites – not to mention all new technologies in modern cars! Not only is the labour market now changing faster and faster. The additional labour force we have received – or to be clear: all the refugees who have come to Sweden – can far too little to do well in our labour market. We would all have liked the development to have gone hand in hand. But now it's just the opposite. More and more training is needed to be in demand in the labour market and to get a job. The vast majority of new arrivals can far too little and do not have the necessary knowledge. Education is probably far from the whole solution to this rather big problem. It is even more important to reform the labour market, to reduce taxes on, above all, low incomes and to introduce a premium ceiling. Having said that, there is much that can be much better in the education system. Better content and better and more efficient systems are needed. We have all put forward proposals to increase the number of training places in most of the training courses. We've done it before, and we're doing it now. But we must not forget to also safeguard quality and ensure that you learn the right things. New arrivals need to study more courses at the same time. At the same time, they should be able to learn Swedish, take courses at primary school level and receive vocational training. Me and the Moderates think that you should read Swedish from day one in Sweden. The rest should be read when you have been granted a residence permit. This is to be done instead of all the labour market training that we know is not going anywhere. Today we are forced to spend two years studying short nursing courses that are so bad that they give nothing in general, especially for those who do not have primary education. The work agency's own evaluations show that these programmes take students further away from the labour market. This, if anything, must be the definition of a waste of tax money. It is simply expensive and bad. The requirement to learn Swedish should apply everywhere and in all municipalities, especially if you do not have a job to go to. As I mentioned earlier, we must not forget quality here either. We know that the quality unfortunately varies greatly in different municipalities. This applies not only to supply but also to content. Therefore, we want to develop a digital learning platform for SFI. This would make it easier to study at a distance, to study at the same time as working or at the same time as having an internship. It would also be easier to learn Swedish from day one even before you have received a residence permit. In order to improve quality and shorten the way to work, we also want the Swedish National Agency for Education to develop new SFI programmes. Only one third of the municipalities in Sweden offer SFIs that are adapted for those who have an academic background. Even fewer municipalities – every fifth municipality – offer SFI combined with professional skills for those with a professional background. Instead of first learning Swedish, then studying comprehensive school subjects and finally learning a profession, you could do all this at the same time. It is no wonder that it is taking a very long time for newcomers to enter the labour market today, and this is done unnecessarily. Let's do it all over again, let's have trainings that lead to jobs and let's set high standards. No one without a job should be able to sit still and wait, but you should study from morning to evening and do everything necessary to make a living. Of course, it should not only apply to those who have just been granted a residence permit, but should apply to everyone. This report and adult education in general are not just about education for newly arrived adults. It is also a very important second chance for those who drop out of high school, for example. Here the Alliance government began an important effort to increase training places in vocational adult education and training, in particular. If you have not completed your upper secondary school studies, you may regret it. Then you can regain your motivation for study and find it fun to study and then get into college or university. But it's far from everyone. Most people just want to be able to get a job. The truth is, most people want to study as little as possible. But they want to get a job to support themselves, be allowed to grow up and become independent. In that case, study programmes are not very good. On the contrary, more people are needed with classical vocational training. That is why we want these vocational training programmes to continue to be more and better and to exist throughout the country. We believe this in the Moderates and we in the Alliance are best done if companies and industry are allowed to participate in shaping the content of the education. This applies both to adult education and to the university of applied sciences. I will not raise much here today, because we have had a bill and a debate on it in the past. In short, university of applied sciences is perhaps the most important piece of the puzzle in all these educational efforts for the very life-long learning and transition of our labour market. Finally, I would like to commend the government. It doesn't happen very often, so listen carefully! We in the Alliance have put forward a proposal to remove all the obstacles that unnecessarily prevent secondary school students from continuing to study after high school. The government parties have agreed to this and have called for their approval. You should have a great credit for that – let it happen more often! With this in mind, I would like to endorse reservations 1 and 2.
i-962b7263c844a818-41	Mr President, I would like to As a center party, of course, I support all the reservations of the party, but for time winning I only ask for reservation 1. Just as Ida Drougge concluded, I would also like to start: It is a good day today! We have a motion report in which we also agree to a number of motions. It is precisely today that we need to raise the issue of all pupils' possibilities for post-secondary studies, and not least all those students who have attended secondary school. There is an announcement in the report that the government should review how access to post-secondary education for pupils with intellectual disabilities can be improved. Many ways forward are needed for everyone! There are many committed people around our country, and also in our committee, who have worked on this issue for a long time. My party colleague, Per Lodenius, will certainly get a little deeper into this issue a little later in the debate. It feels very good to be able to mention that, in terms of much of what has happened in project activities, it will now hopefully open up ways forward so that people have the opportunity to be equipped for the labour market in different ways and according to their needs. It is about studies of various kinds, and it is also about other forms of action, if I should put it that way, in order to get closer to the labour market. On a number of occasions in this House, we have mentioned SV Kulturcollege in Örebro. Many know that activity and how it also equips people to get closer to studying. There need to be different bridges and bridges between each stage of the education system. So this is a very good day, Mr President. In reservation 1 of this committee report, we are dealing with the profession and the university of applied sciences, and since I asked for approval of this reservation, I intend to dwell on it the most. I think there are many good thoughts from the government linked to adult education. For example, there is talk of regional vocational skills, where municipalities work in collaboration to arrange the forms of education that business and working life need. I'd still like to ring a warning bell. Local politicians and regional politicians have heard from them and in various ways raised the question of whether the number of seats has not been reduced. When they compare the number of places in the last five years with the regional professional experience, there are so many fewer places. I just want to point out that. There are no statistics yet, because it has just been implemented. But not least the government parties must keep an eye on this, something that we, too, will certainly do so that we do not grow out of work during this period when we need so much training for those who are a bit away from the labour market. Ida Drougge was into Sfi, an issue that we in the Center Party have raised in different ways. We have a motion in a motion for a sfi-peng precisely to give the individual the opportunity to choose the education provider and that it should not always be the municipalities that have the planning monopoly and is best at this. There are a number of performers who could do this in a very good way. Unfortunately, that proposal is rejected. The report mentions something that I would also like to highlight, and it is about the great effort made on the opportunities of peoples' education with so-called vendetta from day one and also v ardagssvenska. It is exciting when you see that we have ten study associations in Sweden that together have reached 75 000 people with different forms of introductory language education in different ways. It is a great opportunity, and so I think it will be so incredibly important to ensure that the skills you have built up during the years you have worked can remain and that you have the opportunity to continue in a good way. Back to reservation 1 which deals with vocational adult and university of applied sciences, where we point to the possibilities of the tourism industry to develop. I think we have received encouraging news from the Swedish National Agency for Natural Tourism. The Rural Committee mentioned the need for various training courses in the food chain, which we highlight here. We also see that education is not evenly distributed across the country, but many of the polytechnics are concentrated in our three major cities. It will probably always be the case that the search print is highest in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö, but it is also the case that competence is needed throughout the country, and therefore it will be important to continue the digitisation of the university of applied sciences. It is also important to review the skills platforms developed regionally and to give them a good opportunity to meet the polytechnics that are really needed. With these different points of view, I would like once again to ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-962b7263c844a818-58	Mr President, I would like to As has been mentioned earlier, we are debating the report of the Committee on Education and Training on adult education. We should remind ourselves that it is only about 40 years since all municipalities were obliged to organise the corresponding training. It is also a very important debate, as has also been mentioned by the previous speaker, on access to further training for those who have attended secondary school. We in the Left Party are pleased that we have a broad consensus on this. However, we believe that these courses are currently designed according to students who have attended the ordinary upper secondary school and that the system therefore needs to be modernised and adapted to the reality and the needs that exist. The Left Party and the rest of the committee therefore propose that the Riksdag address an announcement to the government to review and improve access to post-secondary education for pupils with intellectual disabilities. We should be very proud that we have been able to agree on this. I would like to support the Left Party's reservation 5 in paragraph 6 which deals, among other things, with the establishment and prospects for new arrivals to succeed in our country. Language, as most people know, is a key to entering society. Those born abroad who, despite many years in Sweden, have not had the opportunity to learn good enough Swedish also have much more difficulty in getting a job. Making sure that they get the opportunity to learn Swedish is a smart investment in several ways. It is therefore welcome that the Government, following agreements with the Left Party, has granted student associations, folk high schools and other actors the right to conduct Swedish education for asylum seekers. But more is needed. Although some of the asylum seekers will not stay in Sweden, increased knowledge of the language leads to a closer connection with Sweden and a better image of our country that also benefits Sweden. In order for new Swedes to be able to quickly enter society and participate in society, the Left Party wants to give them better opportunities to learn Swedish. Education in Swedish for immigrants, SFI, has several problems and shortcomings as it stands today. There are many interruptions in education, and there is a lack of qualified SFI teachers. There are also shortcomings in the SFI in terms of the design itself. Today, education does not compensate enough for the class differences that exist or the linguistic distance that may exist. The Left Party sees the need to improve the quality of education in order to ensure that everyone gets the right to good SFI and Swedish education. But we also need to make it easier to combine SFI with other start-up activities, such as practice, improved validation, etcetera. The current intake is also a factor. Another is that students are forced to interrupt their studies because they have to take a job and make a living, even for a short period of time, in order not to lose their livelihood. It is also a question of participating in various programmes. This system should be reviewed. This creates a contradiction, as the individual is faced with a need to acquire good knowledge of Swedish and, on the other hand, is faced with the other demands of working life and society. In view of the current lack of SFI teachers, we in the Left Party believe that we should invest in increased distance learning and the digitisation of teaching, as other parties have mentioned. I am pleased that the bourgeois parties have previously mentioned it from the pulpit, but the question that is being asked in my head is why this did not happen earlier, when the Alliance was in power for eight years. This could and will be a very good way of making the training available to asylum seekers and making the training more nationwide. The same applies to the question from which day to go on sfi. Today we have a system where we must not start from day one, which creates major problems. On the one hand, the demands on asylum seekers to get a job are increasing and thus be able to stay in the country, and on the other hand, we are not enabling asylum seekers to learn the language by joining the SFI. That's why the Left Party proposes that SFI education take place from day one. There too, the question is why the alliance government did nothing about it. Having said that, I would like to make my speech quite brief in this debate, as we have discussed adult education issues in other reports as well. As I said, I support our reservation No 5.
i-962b7263c844a818-69	Mr President, I would like to I had once, when I was in primary school, a student who said to me: "Everyone asks me what my little brother wants to be." No one ever asks me what I want to be. Is it because they think I'm already something, that I'm stupid and can't be anything? I want to be something too, Christina; I'm not just stupid, am I? Many times when we stand here in the speaker's chair, we want to explain and tell you about the differences that exist between us. We want to show what distinguishes the policy of the party from that of all other parties. We then miss out many times to say that we actually agree on things and not just lie in the hood of each other. But the reason we raise differences is because we want to show that there are different ways and that we want to push each other: This is what we think is important, and it would be good if you did too! That is why I am absolutely happy to be here today and to know that there is total agreement and agreement on the proposal that will give those who go to special high school the opportunity to study further. It's amazing! About a year ago, we were several Members from several parties who stood here in the speaker's chair and raised this particular problem, but there were not really many solutions in sight at that time. The fact that after just a year there is total attendance is incredibly fun. The committee proposes that the Riksdag agrees... that the government should specifically review how to improve access to post-secondary education for pupils with intellectual disabilities. The key word here is, "how" is, "not" if" This is not about an investigation that should look at whether it is possible and if it is needed, but about how it can be done. I was going to talk a little bit about the background to why this is important, even if we all agree. It is about the lock-in of secondary school today. In 2009, we signed the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Sweden. It means that everyone has the right to higher education on equal terms and to lifelong learning without discrimination. That is not how it works today. None of the programmes in upper secondary school leads to basic higher education qualifications. If you want to study further, it is peoples' education, universities of applied sciences or something like that. Upper secondary school's locking up students. I am always as happy when, like previous speakers here, I get to lift SV Kulturcollege at home in Örebro. They're doing a great job. At the same time, it shouldn't have to be that it's just public education that's taking on this. Today, we do not take the same responsibility for all young people. We say that some do not need to have a state or municipal education. Since municipalities took over responsibility for special school in the 1990s, the number of pupils has basically doubled. Why this is the case, we can probably divide it over, but that's what it looks like. We have never had so many children in upper secondary school or primary school. We like projects in Sweden. We think it's good. There are almost as many projects as there are. It's great when you want to try something new and see if it works. Then the idea is that the projects will also lead somewhere. If they're good, it'll be business, if they're bad, we'll put them down and try something else. The problem is when the project form instead replaces the long-term and permanent solutions. What is supposed to be test business that will then happen to something just goes down, and so we do a new project. This is the problem. There are projects on projects on projects for a group that absolutely should not have temporary solutions. There are today a number of projects aimed at this target group, intellectually disabled, but there is nothing permanent in principle. In theory, there are courses in both folk high school and university of applied sciences and vocational studies. In practice, however, very few people turn to the target group. Or rather: There are many folk high schools for people with intellectual disabilities, but few marked vocational training courses and very few that can actually be applied for. There are no specific vocational training courses for those with intellectual disabilities. There are no adapted educations, but everyone must keep an eye on each individual school. In addition, you have to live in the right place, because there is virtually nothing north of Gävle, but you are expected to move. This is about prejudice and expectations. It is about conducting the discussion about how people with intellectual disabilities should have the opportunity to make active choices, gain power over and in their everyday lives and of course gain more influence. That's why this is so important. Of course, this expectation and influence over one's own everyday life is something that applies to all of us. As has been mentioned earlier, there is much that needs to be done in, for example, SFI, not least to secure the skills of teachers. Something else that needs to be done is to quickly ensure that people who come to Sweden have the opportunity to feel involved and feel that they become part of society. One way there is to quickly get an opportunity to learn Swedish and learn about society. Unfortunately, the asylum process is often very long. We can also say a great deal about that. However, it should not just be on the adult education and study associations to go into asylum homes in order to provide this education. Equivalence, of course, suffers. Through SFI training directly at asylum accommodations, we can shorten the start-up period and at the same time avoid passivity, which we know leads to mental illness. I support the Alliance's reservation No 1. My colleagues in the alliance have told me well in the past about the importance of breadth in vocational education and training, and that it is necessary and why there is a need for investment in regional education, so I will not go further into it. Instead, I'll just be very happy. I am pleased that the motion that I have raised, the alliance motion that has been launched and the centre party motion that has been launched have been approved and that we are in agreement. I'm glad we're going to find out how more people are going to get more opportunities. My ex-student's grown up now. I really don't know what he became. I haven't come across him since. What I know is that he should have had more opportunities to choose from more options. I will end with a quote: A person with a disability is not really a person with special needs but a person with very common needs who must be satisfied with special efforts.
i-QMqQ9MvfbYrNJwkjtrkxj6	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing the Education Committee's report No 16 for this parliamentary year concerning adult education. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1. It is an alliance-wide reservation which deals, among other things, with vocational adult education at upper secondary level, what is commonly referred to as vocational adult education. We want to further expand professional adult life. Why? you can ask yourself. Vocational training is a form of training aimed at combating labour shortages with vocational training. If more people can attend vocational training, we believe that the whole of society would work better, as important shortages can be filled with skilled and trained staff. But an even more important reason is that vocational adult education is one of the most important tools we have to deal with and overcome the increasing division of skills in the Swedish labour market. The phenomenon we are seeing today is that, despite a strong economy and high employment, we have a large and growing group of people who are far from the labour market. We know the background to this. The Swedish economy is advanced, and we have relatively high entry wages or minimum wages for most jobs in the Swedish labour market. This is not a problem for people who are well educated and highly qualified – quite the contrary. But it is a major problem for those people who do not have a high level of education or, in quite a few cases, no education at all. In these cases, the high standards mean that it is simply tough to compete in the Swedish labour market. It is also a growing group, as it consists largely of foreign born or non-European born people who have come to Sweden from countries where education and training systems are in many cases not very well developed. Statistics on new arrivals enrolled in the Employment Service's establishment assignment in March show that good 48 per cent had at most a pre-secondary education of nine years. In addition, more than 20 per cent of them have a high school education with them from their home country but, as we know, are not always viable in Sweden. At this point, Mr President, there are essentially two things that can be done to get more of the people who are far removed from the labour market to actually get into work. One is to enable employers to hire people at a lower salary and cost, and we need to do so. The second is to raise the level of education, human capital, for those who do not have sufficient training in their luggage. We know that professional adult education is an effective way of reaching precisely those groups that lack upper secondary education. For example, the Swedish National Agency for Education's evaluations show that three out of four of those who have completed vocational studies have been linked to the labour market one year after the end of vocational studies. This is why, in the budget exercise that we submitted to Parliament last autumn, we in the KD side allocated more than half a billion SEK more than the government to professional adult in 2017 and a further escalation in the years following. It is a good thing that we have in the report a collective alliance in order to further expand the role of the professional adult. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to say a few words about reservation 3, which is also an alliance reservation. It is about introducing a requirement for asylum seekers to participate in teaching both Swedish for immigrants and in social orientation. The background to this proposal is that we want to bring about a faster and better establishment, both on the Swedish labour market and in Swedish society, for those people who come and come to Sweden to seek protection. In the situation that we have today with long waiting periods from the time you submit your asylum application to the time when you are told whether you receive a residence permit or not, we think it is important that you get started with both Swedish studies and learning how Swedish society works during the asylum period. In order to achieve this, we have a proposal from the KD that we call asylum programmes, where an important part is precisely studies in SFI and social orientation. Another important element is a working requirement for asylum seekers. For example, demands are made to help with the management of your own asylum accommodation. I am very pleased that we now have a collective alliance also around the educational part of this. To conclude, Mr President, we have a special opinion in the KD motion for a motion for a resolution, which has been rejected by the committee through a simplified procedure, since they have been dealt with earlier in the parliamentary term. As far as these are concerned, we maintain what has been said by our representatives when the report of the Committee on Education and Training was debated last year and report 13 was discussed two years ago.
i-962b7263c844a818-95	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are dealing with the report by the Committee on Education and Training, which includes motions submitted in the field of adult education. I shall begin by calling for the proposals contained in the report to be approved. My colleague Caroline Helmersson Olsson will raise the question of how post-secondary education for students with intellectual disabilities can be improved, so I will skip this issue in this speech and leave it to her. I always say that a good preschool is the most important start in life you can get. Then, of course, school is important, but after that, adult education probably comes. Adult education can be a basis for getting a job and actually being an active citizen of society. It can be a platform for further studies and be the bridge between unemployment and new jobs or higher education. It is above all about freedom – freedom for us as people to have enough on our feet to be able to make our own choices in life. It's so important. Adult education is so many different things. It is a place where you meet other people, where in conversation with others you may even change your world view and no longer become so categorical in your opinion and thinking. You can even change your mind because you simply encounter new knowledge but also because you get a chance to take in the knowledge of others. Mr President, I would like to This isn't a first-May speech. But I still can't help talking about what I mentioned the other day in my speeches, namely how important the Swedish model is. It is about a society in which we all contribute to increasing the freedom of the many, precisely what adult education is all about. Then it is important that we have good teachers who have spent many years of their lives training and then passionate about their participants' development, that we have a system of study funding that enables studies, no matter what you have with you in your backpack, where you come from and how much you have in your wallet, and that we have good study counselors who show different ways for those who are inconvenient or for those who need help to choose. The best thing about adult education is that it opens doors. It is a bridge between unemployment and employment or between unemployment and higher education, and everyone is entitled to it. That is why it is so wonderful that we have a government that is now investing in more training places, that has introduced the right to komvux and that so that those who are the furthest away from a completed upper secondary education are the ones that need support, and who have therefore introduced a start-up grant that will make it easier to further educate themselves. Our knowledge boost will fully expand in 2019 to include 70 000 new places for adults. This means an investment of SEK 8 billion – well-invested money, I would say. I was going to finish by telling you about Peter in Årjäng. He's the father of my friend Kenny. Peter trained as a mechanic at a young age. At the end of his life, however, he decided after a while that the time was ripe to take that step and realize his, and perhaps some Kennys's, dream of becoming a nurse. He had no easy task. All he had with him was mathematics. Everything else he had to go to Komvux. He worked during the day and read the subjects needed in the evenings and weekends. Then he took the college exam, and it went great. It made him realize that the goal of entering a higher education course was actually within reach. Thanks to adult education and his own strong will, his family's support and all the hours he gave up other activities to study, he is today there and is a nurse. He's working like that today. And yes, I have asked him to have him here today in the speech. He lives in a small municipality, in my municipality of residence Årjäng. He took the step and trained to be one of the professions where there is a constant shortage. When I think of Peter and other men and women like him, I become so proud of our community building and even more convinced of the importance of continuing to invest in common paths to greater freedom for the individual. I would like to end by repeating that the best thing about adult education is that it opens doors.
i-962b7263c844a818-108	Mr President, I would like to It is good that Gunilla Svantorp thinks adult education is good. It is of course great that we agree on the whole that we need more places in professional practice, and that adult education is there for you to be able to change jobs, get a job and catch up on things you have missed. Quite rightly, but I thought, Mr President, that a representative of the Social Democrats, who has only been in government a relatively short time, would not be so happy with everything. It usually sounds the opposite: that everything is quite bad and that it is the fault of the alliance government. I therefore have to ask a question, because I think we have major challenges in adult education as well. I think a lot needs to be improved. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to ask Gunilla Svantorp what she and the government are doing to make it easier, among other things, to combine science and professional skills and to read this at the same time. And what do you do to make it possible to do this not only here in Stockholm but also in other places in Sweden?
i-962b7263c844a818-111	Mr President, I would like to I could start by saying this, Ida Drougge: At the time you were not in Parliament, in 2006, the first decision taken by the government of Reinfeldt was to cut adult education by one third. 600 million went missing. I think that shows very well how important you think it is that you can change your life and that you have educational places. You began your speech today by saying: The need for adult education has never been as great as it is now. Then you say: The most important thing for the Moderates is tax cuts and that we introduce a premium ceiling. Our common welfare, Mr President, is based on our contribution. If we are going to have training places, it is based on collecting money to enable these training places. It is clear that in opposition you can stand and talk about the need for more places. We're adding more seats. But then when you run this country yourself, you do something completely different. In answer to your question, I can say that we will have more seats. I will also say something about your second question, which is about how to enable sfi and practice at the same time. We have sfi even in small places where it may not really work in the same way as here in Stockholm, where it is easier to do other things. I am absolutely convinced that those who work with SFI and with the new arrivals who will do their very best no matter where they live. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Ida Drougge how she intends to finance all these training places when she is at the same time going to reduce taxes.
i-962b7263c844a818-116	Mr President, I would like to I am more than happy to have a tax debate, but here and now perhaps not the right forum. It can be said briefly, however, that if we are more people who are working and more people who are contributing, we will have exactly the effects that the job tax deductions previously gave us: we will get more money. Then we can spend more money – even more money per person in the country – on our welfare. Taxing jobs away is not the answer to growth, to more places and to higher quality adult education. Mr President, I would like to Although I was not in Parliament in 2006, I know very well, just as well as Gunilla Svantorp, that the number of adult education places has always followed the business cycle. It is natural to increase the number of places when there is a greater need and to reduce it when the need is less. In addition, it is ultimately the municipalities that are responsible for the number of places and we who are responsible for the framework, for quality and for monitoring. Although I asked my question and gave Gunilla an excellent opportunity to talk about how she and the government want to take responsibility for doing exactly what is ultimately our task and ensuring the quality and developing the content of the education, she did not take this opportunity. She did not develop this, but stated that all the talented employees we have in adult education are left to fend for themselves.
i-962b7263c844a818-119	Mr President, I would like to Yes, they do, Ida Drougge, and perhaps also with the help of the 10 billion that we have chosen to set aside and send out to the municipal community to decide for themselves how they want to use the money. When it comes to school, in addition to this 10 billion, we have sent out about 11 billion. Of course, it's about how to enable what you think is important. For us, it is much more important to invest in common welfare than to reduce taxes. For us, it is much more important to strengthen the Swedish model, which is about our security solutions and about efforts in welfare, than to reduce taxes. We have two completely different world views. I could list as much as we do in adult education to reinforce, but the most important thing is that we provide resources.
i-962b7263c844a818-122	Mr President, I would like to I do not have any motions for approval on this issue because our motions have been dealt with in the past, in other debates in the same area. But I still have some things to say about this. Adult education is so much more than the points we are raising here today. The points we are raising today are largely about the influx of asylum seekers Sweden had in 2015. It is the huge amount of people who came then that has now made the system have been plugged again at different levels. Mr President, I would like to With the policy of the Swedish Democrats, we would not be standing here today. If we had had to rule, these panic solutions would not have had to be developed, because then we would not have had the greatest failure in the 21st century to try to deal with. Now that the harsh reality is caught up, all possible plaster solutions are presented. Unfortunately, many of these are pure copies. Some of the proposals would have had to be presented earlier and more thought-out. Right now, there is competition over who has the toughest refugee policy among certain parties. But, as I said, they are pale copies of what we have been saying for a long time. Unfortunately, reality has to land in the lap of some people in order for them to understand what it is we are dealing with. A reception of 70 000 students in a year is now beginning to feel in the system. Earlier we heard that there was a lot of nuclear scientists and highly educated people, but they seem to shine with their absence. However, at the moment, Mr President, the system seems to be being rigged for those with low education or perhaps no training. Who said it first, I leave it to the Swedish people to decide about the level of education of these people. Among comprehensive school pupils, there have been more and more people who do not meet the basic requirements. Let us imagine how the system works: comprehensive school pupils who have not met the basic requirements are the ones who come in first. Then they get stuck in the individual programme in high school because they have not been able to get into the other programs. This also means, Mr President, that an increasing number of students are dropping out of high school. Folk high schools, for example, are now being used as a common dumping ground. The proportion of students on a general course would be under 20 per cent, 15 per cent or even under 13 per cent, if I remember correctly. Now it's almost 50%. There are many of these people who get stuck in the system because we are not rigged to receive so many people during the same time. Now you should try to get all this to be swallowed by komvux, vocational adult and university of applied sciences among other things. That's great, because these are people who actually live in this country and who have come here legally, most of them. Then let's get involved in trying to take care of these students. But there is one thing that we have forgotten to debate. No one has mentioned it before, Mr President, so I will take it up. Unfortunately, teachers are missing for all these adult students. Right now, the construction industry is experiencing a huge boom. A great deal is happening in the construction industry, and it is usually from where we take our teachers to the universities of applied sciences. But they are not prepared today, in this build boom, to come in to stand and educate. We're having a really hard time finding teachers in this area. Mr President, I would like to Adult education was originally intended as an education that would be complementary to those who wanted to change their profession or might have taken a course that was no longer relevant. Then you could read the subjects needed. Unfortunately, the other seven parties now have to bear the responsibility for a poorly conducted refugee policy. As I said, Mr President, many of the proposals that lie here are worthy of our hearts, but they would never have had to be tabled if the SD had been at the steering table during the last parliamentary term or before. This is something that may change in 2018. Like many other parties, we have carried out a reality analysis – I will say that many of the parties sitting in here have actually managed to analyse the problem now, and I want to give them a pat on the back for it – but I will not drop any concrete proposals here in the speaker's chair today, but rather I will do so at a press conference in the future. We do not want these loose ideas; we want an overall holistic approach in each area, Mr President. In fact, we have adult education, which is already one of the best in Europe today, but we have major problems with adult education that have a gap in terms of economic efficiency and adaptation to market needs, as some others have mentioned. I would like to comment on what some previous speakers have said here. The Moderates now admit that those who come are low-skilled, which is something we have been saying for a long time, and it is not quite the same tone that we heard under Reinfeldt's rule. We have talked in all parties about the importance of focusing on the Swedish language. We have talked about this all along. However, we choose to focus on solutions that reduce the pressure on asylum in Sweden. We do this best in the places from which these people are fleeing, Mr President. An interesting experiment was mentioned here about developing a digital platform. I think that is very wise. I have input on that. There is a scientist named Carl Hamilton who has already developed such a solution. It is a digital solution, an app, where you when you learn either read or listen in the Swedish language, and the other language is the language that you have as your basis. This is a very good example. I myself have seen this being done in reality, and this is something I would like to recommend that we take on board. This solution has been implemented, analysed and based on fundamental research, Mr President. It's many times that it's not like that. As far as special school pupils are concerned, I agree with all the previous speakers.
i-962b7263c844a818-141	Mr President, I would like to The question I would like to ask the Swedish Democrats is: is there an area under debate in this House where the Swedish Democrats do not intend to blame their bad or non-existent policies in the area of immigration or refugees? Regardless of what issue we deal with in this committee or other committees, Stefan Jakobsson and other costume-dressed people representing a racist party are very careful to constantly blame everything on immigration. You partially answered the question before you even got it, Stefan Jakobsson, and that was when you said you don't have a policy and that therefore you can't present it here and don't have suggestions in this area today. It may be about time that the Swedish Democrats and their representatives stopped speaking about and blaming things that they themselves have been involved in debilitating on refugees and asylum seekers. Of course, there are major challenges that we need to address. It is mainly about resources that we, together with the government, have put forward proposals to expand while the Swedish Democrats, among other things, want to reduce the resources for municipalities by several billions. You are right in one thing, and that is that we would not have stood here if the Swedish Democrats had ruled, and the reason for that is not that you have such a good policy but that you probably would have had so little money for the welfare and adult education that we would not have had an adult education to discuss.
i-962b7263c844a818-145	Mr President, I would like to It is always as interesting to discuss with Daniel Riazat, who is good at putting the epithet on other people and at telling other people what to talk about. Thankfully, I cannot speak for myself, because perhaps Daniel Riazat would have won this debate. But he will not, and it is for the simple reason that we are talking about this every time because the cost of the extremely irresponsible immigration policy that has been taken over in all areas falls. At the moment, we have many people in our education system who we must try to take care of in the best possible way. We agree on that, because they're here now. But there are a number of people staying here illegally who also cost the system a lot of money. I believe that the most important thing in this case is to sit down and discuss concrete solutions. Unfortunately, Mr President, Daniel Riazat does not want to sit in the same room as me and discuss solutions. Here's a problem. Finland did this many decades ago, and they have a well-functioning system for the Finnish school model. This is something we should do too. I am prepared to sit in the same room as Daniel Riazat and discuss future solutions. Is Daniel Riazat?
i-962b7263c844a818-147	Mr President, I would like to One minute and 15 seconds was spent not answering my question about what the Swedish Democrats have for politics in this area and why they constantly blame all the problems in all areas including adult education for people with foreign background. As I said, I did not get an answer to this, which shows once again that Stefan Jakobsson and the Swedish Democrats do not have a complete policy on adult education, as in many other parts of the education field. First of all, I would like to say that no human being is illegal. That is a very important principle for me. Although the Swedish Democrats want large parts of this society to be described as illegal, it is a very important principle for me to follow, and I do not accept that any person in this room or outside it calls children, young people and young adults illegal. However, it is a separate discussion because they are not affected by the adult education system. What we are talking about here today is that the Swedish Democrats are standing in the speaker's seat and are having a debate on adult education without talking about adult education itself. You talk about something completely different. It's not serious and it's not worthy. I know that Stefan Jakobsson has previously mentioned that teachers should be tested to see if they are suitable for their profession, and I have also mentioned earlier that it might be useful to test whether certain Members and parties are appropriate for what we are doing in this House. What we are doing in this House is discussing as serious legislators on the basis of the policy we have in a serious and serious way because it affects people's lives. The Swedish Democrats do not. The only thing that the Swedish Democrats are doing to remove the focus from the fact that they have supported the right for years and the tax reductions that have taken place for the richest at the expense of welfare is to talk shit about immigrants. That is what Stefan Jakobsson repeats here: flosskeler.
i-962b7263c844a818-152	Mr President, I would like to It was two minutes that Daniel Riazat used well to engage in as many jumps as possible. He began his speech by saying that he does not accept that we call people illegal. But it is obviously possible to call people elected to the Swedish Parliament racists. In this way it is possible to choose the epithet. Herein, Mr President, are strange values, and I cannot go along with what is happening there. What is our policy on adult education? is the question asked. Above all, we want to ensure that it works well for the people who are in adult education – that they pass into the system and are adopted in a complete way. We have talked about many of these proposals before, and I do not feel that it makes any sense for me to stand here and repeat myself. However, in this particular area that we are debating today, we do not have many proposals, because with our policy we would not have had to stand here and discuss these things. For this reason, we do not make any proposals either. There are certainly parts of other areas where the Left Party has no policy because you have a different solution to things and which are used before the problems arise. Mr President, I would like to I don't know how to speak against these things, but Daniel Riazat has a fondness to stand and talk about who is what, how and why in our party. I can only speak for myself, Mr President. I am standing here right now in front of Daniel Riazat, and he would like to draw my attention to the fact that I have suggested that you look at the teaching profession and see if those who are teachers are appropriate, and Daniel Riazat would like to see whether Members of Parliament are appropriate to be. I, Mr President, have a clinically clean section of my record. I'm afraid Daniel Riazat doesn't have it.
i-962b7263c844a818-157	Mr President, I would like to I have never met anyone who is deeply satisfied with being unemployed. There may be an incredible number of reasons why people are out of work, and one of these may be lack of education. The fact that society provides opportunities for education regardless of where you are in life gives many a chance to get out of unemployment, change their careers or educate themselves. Komvux is a path where adults should be supported and stimulated in their learning. You should have the opportunity to develop your knowledge and skills in order to have a better opportunity to get into work and society, gain more self-confidence and develop as a person. The education is based on the knowledge you already have, and that is how you build on it. If you have not completed comprehensive school, you start with basic adult to obtain comprehensive school qualifications and then continue to study to gain upper secondary school competence. Mr President, I would like to Finding a profession that motivates studies is not always easy. The municipality of Smedjebacken has labour market knowledge in grade 8. There, students are asked how many different jobs they know, and most often they know 25 to 30. This shows that it can be difficult to know what suits you just when you know only a few jobs. An estimated 8 000 professions, more or less, have shifted over the years. Today, young people do not know what a raider, a rafter or a switchboard operator is. And those who left earth in the 80s had no idea that game developers would become a hotly sought after profession, because it was not on the list at all. Lifelong learning is becoming more important and important. Staying in a profession is not the obvious for today's labor force. This requires education providers to live up to a constantly changing labour market. Comprehensive school competence opens doors to a number of different choices. One of these is professional adult, which the government has made a strong effort to give students the opportunity to train in the shortage professions to get a chance to get to work quickly. It feels good with new rules on extended right to read in komvux. The requirement for a degree from a vocational programme in upper secondary school to be entitled to komvux in upper secondary school is removed. Instead, it introduces an increased right to participate in order to obtain higher education qualifications, even if this starts at the first level and is intended for beginners or for university of applied sciences. The emphasis on everyone's right to komvux is important because it opens doors in the education system and strengthens individuals' right to education. The possibility to issue final grades under older rules for upper secondary adult education is extended until 1 July 2020. In addition, the 525 hour benchmark for teaching in municipal adult education in Swedish is removed for immigrants. Education and training in universities of applied sciences must respond to the needs of skilled labour in working life, for the jobs that really exist, or at least contribute to developing or maintaining qualified professional skills in narrow areas of work that are important for the individual and society. Becoming a silversmith, for example, is one of these courses. Art and culture education and certain other education activities shall, inter alia, contribute to the development of qualified professional skills in the artistic or cultural field. University of Applied Sciences is a form of education that combines theoretical studies and practice, so-called LIA – learning in work, in collaboration with potential employers. At a LIA workplace, students are trained in a strong position. Under supervision, they can further develop their knowledge from school in a real environment. They get work experience and feel their future professional role already during their studies. They have contacts in working life that can very well lead to jobs right after education. Elise, who is doing LIA at the UN in New York, says: My education as an international cultural project leader has taken me on a surprising journey from working with the marketing of Swedish art and cultural life to working with digital diplomacy and marketing of Sweden. Each year, it is decided again which courses to start within the university of applied sciences. Once the labour market needs for a certain qualification have been filled, no more training courses will be started in that profession. One effect of this is that there are always many new and exciting professions within the university of applied sciences. In some sectors, skills requirements have changed a lot. The University of Applied Sciences provides further training and/ or specialisation – another ingredient in lifelong learning. Adult education is in many ways what gives hope that we will be able to offer people the training they need to find a job that will make them grow, while the labour market will have access to well-trained employees. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-962b7263c844a818-172	Mr President, I would like to Lifelong learning, the possibility of further education also after high school, is important. Even those who have an intellectual disability and have therefore been in special education should have that opportunity. But if you have attended a special school, you do not have the same opportunity, but it depends on what the municipality wants to offer you. You don't really have a choice of your own. This is unnecessary. We know that there is much you can do even if you have an intellectual disability, as long as you get the chance to continue to learn more after high school. Just as important as it is that those who have it easily have the opportunity to develop according to their ability and interest, it is that those who have an intellectual disability also have the opportunity to develop according to their ability and interest. I want a college, too, for someone who's been in special school. Everyone is needed in our society. Everyone has a place in our society. It is a question of democracy. Mr President, I would like to These are some sentences I have used in parliamentary movements, debate articles and here in Parliament's pulpit during my years as a Member of Parliament. Today we will adopt an announcement that the government will specifically review how to improve access to post-secondary education for pupils with intellectual disabilities. This is a decision that I have longed for ever since I entered the Swedish Parliament in 2006, not least for my pupils from my time as a teacher in upper secondary school and for all the special school students that I have been able to meet since I became a Member of Parliament. I have the privilege of following many projects and other work that is about opening up the possibility of post-secondary education to those who have attended special school. Many have also come to the Riksdag for various seminars. Thank you, all colleagues from different parties sitting here, who have stood up for them and taken on board the message! A special thank you to Caroline Helmersson Olsson from the Social Democrats: Thank you for your cooperation! It is a unanimous decision we are making today, and that is how it should be, because this is not and should not be a partisan position. The great heroes and role models are, however, all of you who are fighting around the country, such as SV Kulturcollege, with Maria Östby at the head, mentioned earlier here, the Health Inspirator project at the University of Gävle, with Tomas Boman together with Kennet Fröjd and Elin Lund Jonsson, the project Adapted IT at Mora Folkhögskola, led by Kerstin Gatu, as well as the vocational education of cultural communicator in Bollnäs and Anders Skogh, who are no longer present with us but whose work continues through others, including through Culture and Quality, where Kjell Stjernholm, Malin Lucchesi and Camilla Lucchesi are active. And then we have Jessica Arvidsson at Halmstad University, whose thesis on employment and social justice has become an eye-opener for many and has certainly contributed to today's decision. I could continue to list all the heroes I've met around our country. You're all incredibly important. I'm sorry if I haven't mentioned all of you here and now, but you know who you are and you're all worth gold. Last Wednesday, King Saga High School had a manifestation at Coins Square here outside the Riksdag. It was noted both here in the Riksdag House and by the media. This decision is also for you. But we should be aware that we are not in the goal of today's decision. It is a first step, an important step, to break the municipal arrest of those who have attended special school. There are a lot of decisions left to make, but now we're finally on our way. I promise that I will continue to fight for the possibility of post-secondary education for those in special education. For, Mr President, this is a small decision for Parliament to take today but a big decision for everyone's opportunity for lifelong learning.
i-962b7263c844a818-183	Mr President, I would like to As promised, I, too, will say a few words about the announcement that a united committee is behind today about continuing learning after upper secondary school years. It will be a little difficult after the very fine speech that Per Lodenius just gave. Actually, I was a little touched. I would also like to thank Per Lodenius for contributing at least to my knowledge development and commitment. He has brought his party, the alliance parties and now the entire Parliament on these important issues. I know Christina Örnebjär has contributed to this. I would like to start by saying that it is good that in February the government set up an inquiry, with Roger Mörtvik as investigator, into a well-adapted adult education. The government has taken an important step there. The Directives require the investigator to identify, inter alia, the possibilities for post-secondary and special education and to analyse whether these meet the needs of the target group. If the training opportunities do not meet the target group's need for further training, the investigator shall propose measures to meet the need. There is a lack of university of applied sciences and higher education. We are correcting this today, jointly across party boundaries. I and several Members have been involved for a long time. This did not go for a year, and we have many steps to take. But several of us stood there at Coins Square with the students from King Saga and demonstrated for their right to higher education. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to say that every child and youth, regardless of gender, background and disability, should be given a good basis to stand on. Adults should have good access to education throughout their lives, regardless of where they live in the country. This is an ambition of the government, and it applies to all children, young people and adults, regardless of age, gender and disability. This is important to establish. The right to education is also enshrined in several international conventions. Article 24 of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities states that the right to education shall be granted without discrimination and on equal terms. Education is also a target area in Agenda 2030, and people with disabilities are specifically mentioned. This is to be ensured by States: equal quality education for all by 2030. Sweden must and can go ahead here. I believe in a society that exploits every individual's ability to contribute to the construction of society in the best way possible. Jobs give freedom. The way to a job is often through education. If you have education, you have more opportunities and more freedom to choose and opt out. The possibility of opt-out should not be underestimated in this context. I would like to ask for firm support for the committee's proposal.
i-962b7263c844a818-195	Mr President, I would like to It is not often started by referring to previous reports, but for us who are here in the room this is fantastic. What if we could have that kind of mood when we take exercise reports in general – that would be fantastic! Mr President, I would like to Today we are going to discuss the reports of the Committee on Education and Training on the school system: UbU17, UbU18 and Ubu19. This is a comprehensive motion report which, for practical reasons, has been divided into three, but is thus dealt with in a general debate. I would like to start by calling for the committee's proposals to be approved in all the reports, including a joint declaration on study and career guidance. I would also like to say that the committee's positions and the work of the government are aimed at raising the results of knowledge, strengthening the attractiveness of the teaching profession and increasing equality in school. However, Mr President, the reason why I am not in favour of any of the two reservations that we support is that both announcements by the opposition are opening doors. The announcement that teaching should not be gender-divided strikes a wide-open door. The Government already decided on 2 February 2017 on a mission to the Swedish National Agency for Education: to propose changes to the curricula to clarify the school's mission to counteract traditional gender patterns, to shape and convey values such as equality between women and men, and to actively and consciously promote their equal rights and opportunities. In particular, the changes shall make it clear that the core values set out in the curriculum include the organisation of education by the school, so that girls and boys meet and work together in teaching. The assignment shall be presented no later than 29 May 2017. The government is therefore in the process of clarifying the regulations precisely to stop gender-disaggregated education. The truth is, moreover, that the changes already begun by the government will go faster than a school change. The second announcement, Mr President, is that the government should take action to introduce digital and centrally corrected national tests. Here the opposition strikes another open door. No one opposes the digitisation of national tests. The fact is that digitisation of the national tests is currently taking place. A special investigator has presented a series of proposals on the national tests, including their digitalisation during the period 2018– 2022. The Swedish National Agency for Education, one of many referrals, says: This gives a small indication of the complexity of the issue. In the autumn budget last year, we announced that the national tests would be digitised and increased external assessment. The Swedish National Agency for Education is now working on a preparatory mission to digitise the tests, and the government plans to present a proposal by the end of the summer. The disagreement that may exist is that we do not think that the national tests should be collected and sent to a central authority in Stockholm, which should correct them. We believe, just as the investigation concluded, that a major purpose of the national tests should be to support the grading. So we can strengthen an equal rating and the students' legal certainty. However, in order to assess the extent to which knowledge requirements are met, those responsible for students' knowledge development, teachers, also need to play a continuing important role in the use of national tests. In order for the teachers, who will ultimately be able to score the students' grades, to be able to do so in an equal and legally certain way, it is important that they have knowledge of the national tests and their correction. That is why we are in favour of external assessment but not necessarily centralised correction. Mr President, I would like to As this is a motion for a resolution, and therefore not based on government proposals, I would like to make a brief comment on some of the opposition's reservations. They, too, take their starting point in the fact that the government's work is obviously uninteresting even to understand: exercise should be written, either on the basis of a desire to show conflicts that do not exist or on the basis of a belief that school political victories are won by the writer of the most motions, reservations or announcements on the subject, no matter what the public opinion looks like. One proposal concerns programming at school. In September 2015, the Swedish National Agency for Education was commissioned by the Government to propose national IT strategies for the school system. The Swedish National Agency for Education believes that programming should not become a new subject in primary school, but should be included primarily in mathematics and technology, and technology is proposed to become a separate subject in connection with the proposal and established hourly plan. The Government decided on 9 March 2017 on clarifications and reinforcements in the school's policy paper to clarify the school's mission to strengthen students' digital skills. The changes include the introduction of programming as a clear feature of several subjects in primary school, especially in technology and mathematics. This shall apply from 1 July 2018. However, school leaders who want to can start the changes as early as 1 July 2017. When it comes to sports about an introductory year and relief of licence requirements, the government has appointed an investigator after a national collection for the teaching profession. Björn Åstrand will submit proposals aimed at providing better conditions for teachers, preschool teachers, vice-chancellors and preschool managers to carry out their assignments and, among other things, review the eligibility and identification rules. Among other things, he will assess whether there is a need to adjust the rules on identification and eligibility – without changing the basic principle of the reform – in order to facilitate the supply of skills. The investigation must be completed by 1 June at the latest. Introduction and further training for teachers presented the school commission in its interim report, and Björn Åstrand also has the task of looking at professional programmes within the framework of his study. Mr President, I would like to There is a reservation about increased teachers' salaries, which has already been implemented with SEK 3 billion from the state. There is a boost for teachers in national school development programmes in areas such as digitalisation, school and working life and systematic quality work, as the Swedish National Agency for Education has already reported. Collaboration for the best school means resources for those schools that have the toughest challenges and have received criticism from the Swedish School Inspectorate in several areas. Collaboration for the best school is a long-term and successful way of working to follow up, analyse and take measures to achieve increased student competence, strengthen leadership, achieve security and studyo, increase specialist knowledge depending on the school's different challenges. There are simply greater opportunities for those principals who want to invest further in the most vulnerable areas, in terms of wages, in staffing density and in the development of skills. I recommend everyone who has not yet visited any Collaboration for best school-school to do so. It is a systematic work, where school management and the profession first analyse and then develop methods, structures, forms of work and approaches in dialogue with our universities and with support from research and empirical research. It gives great hope that much is possible if tools and trust are given. My last example of reservations moving in the same line as the work the government is already doing is remote education. Last year we did a solid and complicated work in committee to go further than what we had the basis for. In other words, the committee wanted more than the previous political leadership. The investigation that Jan Björklund set up was not very ambitious – we wanted more when the bill came, and so we made a joint announcement to review the construction regulations in the school law regarding remote teaching. It is simply a question of buying, selling and cooperating between municipal authorities. The investigation is due by May 30th. Mr President, I would like to There is really only one area in the UbU19 report that I am thinking about. It is the wording of the opposition about a common queue system for municipal and independent schools. Without hastying, I would like to say that this is a sensible proposal. But if all students are to choose, it is up to the municipalities to set up a system where the elections can also be catered for. I still have my friend in Stockholm on my retina when I think about the question. She has two daughters who made four choices before high school, but nothing could be satisfied. They were given a completely different alternative, where neither geography, public transport nor expectations were true. I am still curious and genuinely interested in who should go only when the seats are not enough. It is not a big discussion in my municipality of residence or in my constituency, but it is a reasonable discussion, especially when the municipality is not in a position to dimension the range of schools, but is in fact dependent on independent schools establishing themselves where they are most needed and to such an extent that there is no under- or over-establishment, with overcrowding classrooms or empty, expensive school premises as a result. Long-term planning conditions are crucial for a municipality that is responsible for all children's rights to equal schooling. But it is also crucial for everyone who works in school. I am thinking of principals, teachers, parents and, of course, students. Mr President, I would like to Perhaps I have sounded a little pessimistic in the first 9 minutes and 40 seconds of my speech. However, I would like to say that we have rarely had a situation like this. Open doors – that the opposition writes motions on things that the government is already working on – can also be interpreted as a momentum, i.e. that we are not so far apart on all school issues. With a recent report from the School Commission, I would say that we have a situation in school policy that we have not had in a long time. Hopefully we can see a broken trend in falling knowledge results, but still at previously unacceptably low levels. We see an increasing school variation and a growing inequality. We have a large proportion of newly arrived students. There is a lack of teachers and a great need for education at the same time. At the same time, a Commission with researchers, school leaders and professional representatives has just agreed on a strategy for Swedish school development. Teachers' unions and school leaders speak with one voice. School policy is high on the Swedish people's agenda. After the consultation round and a little summer leave from the Riksdag, it is time for us to take responsibility. In fact, it is up to us – it is entirely up to us if we want to show that we can do what decades of school politicians have failed to do, namely to put the best interests of the school in focus and promote long-termism and confidence in the profession.
i-BL42getBBsr2qdKNe2SwtY	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 6 and 7 in the UbU17, reservations 2 and 6 in the UbU18 and reservations 2 and 16 in the UbU19. I would also like to wish my honourable colleague, Lena Hallengren, early improvement. It sounded hard to be so depressed in a real cold. We've all been there. We know how tough it can be to have to be on top and debate at the same time. I would also like to agree with Lena Hallengren's own reflections that she may have been somewhat negative in much of her speech. It is important to note, however, that it is the task of the opposition to push for a government that may already be dealing with certain issues but is not working with them quickly enough, comprehensively enough or properly in the right way. We in the Alliance have higher demands on what will happen in Swedish education policy, and we also largely have ideas and proposals that could involve important reforms that would have to come into place much faster. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's Minister for School has now been responsible for the school for nearly 1 000 days. Despite something that for some time looked like a rescue plan, we can see that little has happened. The days have passed, and the government has screwed a bit here and was in the systems, but some significant reforms to strengthen and improve Swedish schools have unfortunately not been done. But it was in itself expected. All the eggs were laid in a basket and showed that all the school's challenges would be solved by the School Commission. Therefore, it was not surprising that not only the Alliance but also many with us had quite high expectations of what the School Commission would propose. The Commission has certainly made a number of interesting proposals, which I will come back to later. But with the facts in hand, we can nevertheless conclude that this government's term of office means four years lost for Swedish schools. Mr President, I would like to There were many of us who held their breath and were very happy when we received the important signs of strength last winter. There were very fun results in both PISA and Timss. We still have a lot to do, but it was still an important turn. The results confirmed that the Alliance's reforms for more knowledge in school – for which the Social Democrats have often criticised us and which they have also reserved for in this House – are now beginning to work and to strengthen students' knowledge. The seniors who participated in PISA and Timss in 2015 were the first students to attend school when the major alliance reforms came into force. Now Swedish school must continue to take much-needed steps forward. It must be an end for schools that year after year fail their mission. We therefore welcome the Commission's proposal to regionalise the school authorities in order to bring them closer to the teachers, closer to the principals and closer to the pupils. But we Moderates don't think that's enough. Mr President, I would like to All pupils – regardless of their surname, residence address or family background – have the right to a high-quality school with equal expectations for all pupils. I am very sorry to have to say that it does not look like that today. There are schools where not even half of the students are eligible for upper secondary school. It is as much a betrayal as a sorting out to unemployment, to exclusion and, in the worst cases, also to crime. This is not worthy of a Sweden that, firstly, should stick together and, secondly, should compete precisely with knowledge. In Moderate Sweden, all children and students in all our schools will be treated with the attitude: It matters less where you come from and a bigger role where you are going. That's why we're saying stop to schools that, year in and year out, don't do their job. It is therefore absolutely crucial that our school authorities, especially the School Inspectorate, get a completely different focus in their official mission. That is what we are proposing in today's report. The reviews must be based more on the work in the classroom and less on whether the right documents are in the right cover in the Vice-Chancellor's room. It also means quite different powers for the authority to intervene and put an end to schools that are not doing what they are supposed to: providing all pupils with a high quality education. We also want to see a change in the Swedish National Agency for Education. We want to see more of a school developing authority, which has muscles and resources to support school development when many students do not get the support they need. Mr President, I would like to Another, but not so happy, message that came last year was that there were schools where girls and boys separated for many years in education. There were many of us who reacted to it, including myself. I am pleased to say that the Minister for Education did so. I was very pleased. There was a consensus on the political side that the main rule should be that girls and boys should have education together in Swedish school. In retrospect, however, we can see that the government and the Minister for Education were not prepared to make the necessary change to the Education Act. I am therefore pleased that a majority in the Committee on Education and Training today states that such a change is directly necessary. It is now up to the government to follow Parliament's decisions and put an end to the interpretation of the School Act by the Swedish School Inspectorate, which means sanctioning a regular separation of girls and boys in education. Mr President, I would like to As we stand here today, our students are approaching the end of their semesters. These are essays to be written. It is project work to be completed. But it is also a time when knowledge should be measured, assessed and documented. Many are the students who are currently doing, who have done and who will be doing the national tests in the coming weeks. But unfortunately during the semester we have seen both TV programmes and news reports – it was not long ago – about something that threatens the entire legitimacy of the national tests. It is the widespread cheating, which seems to be difficult to stop. That the tests, which should be an instrument for measuring what students can and cannot, leak and spread, is a problem that we Moderates take very seriously. That the Swedish National Agency for Education has clarified its advice is a bit on the way but far from enough. What we need is digitalised and externally corrected national tests. Here we say from the Alliance: It is not enough to present that this should be done by 2022. It's too far away. Reforms should, of course, be launched with both reflection and respect for the profession, but every year we run the risk of lowering both the legal certainty and legitimacy of national tests. Digitised and centrally corrected tests also represent another major gain, namely a reduction in the administrative burden on teachers. This gives teachers the opportunity to focus less on administration and more on the knowledge assignment. I must honestly say that I very often meet teachers who ask: What are we waiting for? Why should we have to wait for a fully developed digitalised school by 2022? Here, the government will have to chew in itself that it is actually the case that we should and should have higher demands on when digitalisation is to be carried out. Politics is largely about priorities. Let us therefore play with the idea that the government had prioritised to find out how our Nordic neighbours work with digitised tests instead of spending time and effort on changing names for permission. My guess is that we would have had this in place much earlier than 2022. Mr President, I would like to At the beginning of my speech, I promised to return to the Moderates' view of the School Commission's proposal. On behalf of my party, I would like to extend warm thanks to the members of the School Commission, who I know have worked hard to turn and turn the problems, challenges and opportunities of Swedish schools around. The school commission has come up with several proposals that Swedish schools are in great need of. It is not least about better functioning and more present authorities, an active school choice and strengthened conditions for the competence development and career opportunities of teachers and school leaders. It will be exciting to see how the government chooses to manage and develop these proposals. I can promise that we Moderates will be a constructive interlocutor on these issues, with which we believe it is important to continue to work. But there are also parts where we believe that the School Commission should have gone further and be sharper in its proposals. A good school starts with what happens in the classroom. Therefore, teacher training needs to be improved, so that more people choose to complete it instead of dropping out or choosing another course. We want to double the teacher-led time in education to strengthen quality and modernise education, so that all teachers bring with them knowledge of methodology and pedagogy in a digital school environment, special pedagogy, second language learning and, not least, leadership – that is perhaps the most important thing. I also miss proposals that are seriously confronted with the lack of teachers that we have today – and it will worsen in the future. It is not least a question of removing the rules which today close far too many doors to the teaching profession. We can't afford that. My hope is therefore that the School Commission's work is the starting point for a new phase for Swedish school. Reforms for more knowledge in schools can reverse the trend and all schools can be good schools to choose from. However, it requires a courageous government that releases its prestige and dares to listen to the signals that we have sent from this House to the government for almost three years. It is about more first teachers, an early school start and increasing teaching time in important subjects, such as mathematics and sport. It's just a few suggestions. Mr President, I would like to It is now nearly 1 000 days since we received a new Minister of Education. The time for presenting some significant reforms for more knowledge in school is running out. I can see that the conclusion so far is, most of all, a continuation of the Alliance's school policy, which I am delighted about, but Swedish school needs more. We need more skilled teachers. We need more time between students and teachers. We need school start-up from the age of six, greater efforts to make newcomers succeed better in school and, above all, a stop for schools that year-on-year fail their mission. There was not much of this from this government, which is a sin. A growing and prosperous Sweden requires a school that gives all students the right conditions for learning and knowledge from day one in school. For this to become a reality, both a political will and a political courage are needed to change what does not work and to see what has a potential to build us stronger. Unfortunately, the government has not dared to show this courage, and the term of office risks going down in history as four lost years for Swedish school. There's something I'm really sorry about.
i-962b7263c844a818-243	Mr President, I would like to The order of Parliament is such that unless I ask for a reply on Camilla, there will be no change of line in this House, and surely we will have to do so when we debate the school system report. I'd like to correct one thing. I don't want to say I was negative. On the other hand, I would perhaps not interpret the fact that there are open doors and the imposition of government policy. It is not possible to get away from Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, that the digitization and programming mission to the Swedish National Agency for Education and a change in the curriculum is not something that is going on; it was presented in March 2016. A review of the identification and competence reform will take place on 1 June. There aren't many weeks left. With regard to remote education, to which many of us in the committee have a great deal of commitment, we have to wait until 30 May. Then the investigator will present a proposal. A systematic quality work to ensure that schools do not go through years and years with such poor results and many unauthorized students that it should not be possible can look in different ways. You could close down the school, which can be assumed to be an easy way. But working with systematic quality work through Collaboration for the best school proves to be successful so far. I don't know how Camilla Waltersson Grönvall thinks about Collaboration for the best school. However, this is an approach that the authorities have had in the past. I really think we could develop this much more. Moreover, regionalising the school authorities is not something the School Commission has waited to do, but an investigator has already been appointed. I would like to ask Camilla Waltersson Grönvall how she and the Moderates think about winnings and reservation 13 in the UbU19. Apparently, the Pollette has fallen down with the Moderates when it comes to the rightful questioning of the Swedish people. We pay together taxes and then pick out activities rather than profits. I wonder if I have understood the proposal correctly: stand-alone operators are allowed to run schools and make profits. They get to pick out profits, but when things go bad, the government should take over the headship. Then the school can come back and take out new profits.
i-962b7263c844a818-249	Mr President, I would like to There are a lot of things that are positive in what the School Commission says, but there are also a number of points where it returns with ten investigations. This means, in practice, that we will be dealing with the Government's findings after this term of office, which in many ways shows four lost years to Swedish school. Lena Hallengren now mentions a number of issues where we Moderates want to go further. We have better proposals, which is the difference. Remote education could be a fantastic suggestion. Technology and Swedish teachers have gone further than legislation, which cannot match them. This means, in concrete terms, that when we in this House are to have legislation in place, the Swedish Government, with Lena Hallengren's Social Democrats and Elisabet Knutsson's environmental partners at the forefront, is choosing to withdraw development. What technology enables and what Swedish teachers have developed through their expertise does not give them any opportunity to. It is not considered that all subjects should be available in remote education. This is an excellent example of when we in the Alliance are not satisfied with what the government is bringing. More needs to be done. What the government is doing today is to hold back developments in Sweden. We have great challenges. This applies not least to small schools in rural areas, which the Swedish government is now actually leaving to its fate despite the fact that there are solutions. We have such major flaws, as Lena Hallengren should know, that we need to find all kinds of solutions. That's our entrance.
i-962b7263c844a818-254	Mr President, I would like to Camilla Waltersson Grönvall and the whole opposition know very well that the possibility of remote teaching is not limited to certain subjects. There is an experimental activity going on until 2018 in which you can have remote education in all subjects. The question is about the possibility of doing this on a subcontracting basis with various municipal authorities. I can agree that this seems complicated, but all of us who sit in this House and are legislators know that legislation and, not least, municipal self-government are quite complex. I do not think we should fool each other in the discussion, but admit that the proposal is complex. How many subjects should a small student be able to have with a teacher remotely, for example? Do you have a primary responsibility for the students in your own municipality? What responsibility can be expected for pupils in other municipalities? These are questions that are raised at the forefront when talking about remote education. I stress, on behalf of the whole majority, that we very much want to do much more than Björklund's investigation gave us the basis for evaluation. On 30 May, I hope that we will have a good investigation into this. Programming and technology as a subject of its own, progress in remote learning, review of the licence and competence reform, regionalised school authorities – there is a lot going on. We don't have to wait for a school commission. I very much hope for Camilla Waltersson Grönvall's closing words about taking seriously the School Commission so that after the summer we can really think about how it can help us move forward. I also hope that I can get an answer to the question of Moderates' view of profit at school. Do I understand that correctly? One should first be able to run a school and take out profits. When things go bad enough, the state should take over the headship, and then you can't take out profits. When the school then goes well enough again, you can take back your school, and you can go back with profit. Have I understood the Moderates' attitude toward profit at school correctly?
i-962b7263c844a818-261	Mr President, I would like to Another thing from the School Commission that I think is absolutely most positive is that it unanimously establishes that we have an independent school system and that it should remain. The independent schools will continue to exist. This means that I have a hope, albeit small, that we will be able to put the profit debate aside and instead focus on what is important, namely to have quality in Swedish schools. That's exactly what it's all about. We're gonna have good schools. Unfortunately, the School Commission has chosen to focus too little on this, which has been part of our criticism. The choice should only be between good schools. When it comes to our knowledge contracts, we say that if an independent school is not of sufficient quality, it should not be possible for some time to make any profit either. So that is quite correct. Now we need to focus on the active school elections, which are also proposed by a united school commission. Not least, we Moderates have been doing this for a very long time. I think Lena Hallengren is aware of that. Removing the possibility of an active school election by adding a lottery proposal is something that we will actively and consistently work against, which I promise here and now. We will be constructive in all the parts that we see leading Swedish school forward, but the proposal for lots for schools is a proposal that we will not support. We do not believe that children should be part of a lottery. In that part, the message is clear. It is positive that there seems to be a majority in this House opposed to the proposal on drawing. When it comes to other parts about active school selection, competence development for Swedish teachers and other things, we will be very constructive collaboration and dialogue partners. I can promise Lena Hallengren that.
i-4J2JpqkMtBTCbtGTZun45C	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg, Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke and Minister of State Anna Ekström. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-962b7263c844a818-267	Mr President, I would like to The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise recently asked thousands of entrepreneurs how they view the conditions for starting and running companies in Sweden. Two out of three say it has become more difficult and complicated in the last two years. 1 percent, only one out of a hundred entrepreneurs, says it has become easier. It is a clear understatement to the government, a reasonable one in terms of many of the messages and decisions that have come. It has become more expensive to hire and less profitable to work. It is airline tax, truck tax and a lot of other reforms. In view of this, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs what he believes is the reason why the country's entrepreneurs are giving the government such a severe understatement in terms of enterprise policy.
i-528Rtm8Z6fEcSNVAMMNt2A	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Helmered, for the question! If you look at the development in the Swedish economy but also the entrepreneurship in Sweden you can see that there are incredibly good features in Swedish business right now. Since October 2014, 200 000 new jobs have been created, 114 000 of them in private companies. Perhaps the most gratifying thing is that unemployment has fallen from 8% to less than 7%. Most of the unemployment rate has fallen for young people. That was the focus we in the government had, so we're grateful for that. What we do is we work broadly with business policy from an investment perspective because we know that when housing is built, when the railway is renovated and maintained, when you expand the broadband and create better education opportunities, then more jobs are created in the economy. It is the nutrition policy that is delivering a good result right now.
i-962b7263c844a818-272	Mr President, I would like to The right thing is that the economy is going well and that many Swedish companies are doing well. It is also true that the outcome is clear when the country's entrepreneurs rate the government's industrial policy. Two out of three find it more complicated and difficult today than two years ago. One in one hundred thinks it's getting better. In a recent study, even eight out of ten have said that they have little or no confidence in the government's ability to fundamentally improve the conditions for starting and running companies in Sweden. My supplementary question is whether Minister Damberg is satisfied with the grades the entrepreneurs give him and the government.
i-962b7263c844a818-275	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Swedish economy is a job engine that produces good results. I am concerned that the Moderates' economic policy would be an investment brake for Sweden. You have substantial savings in housing policy and railway maintenance, and some training efforts would unfortunately be lost in a situation where Swedish industry really needs competent staff and matching is the biggest growth barrier for Sweden. We will continue to pursue a policy of investment, not major tax cuts.
i-962b7263c844a818-279	Mr President, I would like to As we all know, Swedish health care is in deep crisis. We have the longest waiting times throughout Europe, which means that patients in the surgical queues have waited longer than the 90 days of the health guarantee. One way to shorten the surgical queues would be to offer patients the right to choose inpatient care throughout the country. In order for everyone in here to understand how unreasonable today's system is, I will take a short example: As a patient in Skåne, you have to wait more than 13 weeks to change heart valves, while the county council next door, Blekinge, has a queue time of four weeks for the same operation with available capacity. My question to Minister Mikael Damberg is whether the Government considers it reasonable that patients should be in a long line of surgery in their own county council when there is spare capacity in another county council. If not, will the government introduce the right to choose inpatient care throughout the country?
i-962b7263c844a818-283	Mr President, I would like to Health care is a strong priority for the government. Generally speaking, Swedish health care is of high quality in international comparison. But we have challenges. Not least, waiting times are a problem. Therefore, since day one, the government has been working to ensure that they manage the skills supply in county councils, which is the big threshold for grazing queues. We have also provided municipalities and county councils with 10 welfare billions long-term in order to be able to work with skills supply but also to upgrade the profession so that more people can go back to it. We presented the other day the ambition of a patient billion more to shorten the time to healthcare and care in Sweden. This is a priority we will continue to work on. I note that the Swedish Democrats have not had a policy that has prioritised the finances of municipalities and county councils. It is rather one of your biggest savings items, at least in your previous budget. It must be recognised that high-quality healthcare costs money, and one must dare to prioritise it financially.
i-962b7263c844a818-288	Mr President, I would like to I note that I did not receive an answer to my question. I didn't expect that either. However, we are talking about more than 30 000 patients who have waited longer for surgery than is permitted. The government announced a few days ago that it would tighten up the health guarantee and introduce a patient contract. My question is this: in what way will guarantees and contracts shorten the surgical queues in the health care sector, when, in the very case, it is the lack of healthcare professionals that makes the queues grow?
i-962b7263c844a818-291	Mr President, I would like to The big change is the billion that comes into this. We give money to solve the skills gaps that exist by unburdening existing staff and working with making the profession attractive so that more people go back to it. Again, improving health care should concentrate on providing resources, not working on tax cuts as a means of improving health care.
i-962b7263c844a818-293	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to Minister Anna Ekström. It is precisely today that the Committee on Education and Training is debating adult education in this House. We have just produced an announcement that the government will specifically review how access to post-secondary education for pupils with intellectual disabilities can be improved in various ways. I know, of course, that the Government is well aware of the issue, and at the moment it feels relevant to ask how the Government intends to proceed with the announcement proposed by a united committee in the current debate.
i-962b7263c844a818-296	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ulrika Carlsson, for the question! It's really important. We have in Sweden a school system that should be for everyone and a school that should be inclusive. I am pleased that the Committee on Education and Training is showing the great concern and interest that Ulrika Carlsson has shown in the matter. Over the years, we have made a large number of efforts to ensure that the Swedish school is indeed an inclusive school. For example, I can mention the major efforts that have been made for student health, but also the major efforts made within the framework of Collaboration for best school and other large, general and broad competence development systems. Perhaps most important of all is the investment made in special education and teaching. I look forward to doing even more and am pleased with the support shown by Parliament on this issue.
i-962b7263c844a818-300	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anna Ekström, for your answer. Right now it concerns those students who have attended special upper secondary school, their possibilities for work and further studies and how the government intends to work on the question of how to meet this need. As far as we know, there have been many closed doors for this particular group of students over the years, and it feels important for a united parliament to point out that here you want to see improvements and results.
i-Lx71kdFobu3M1uihcimdBn	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Ulrika Carlsson! In the Swedish upper secondary school we have a general problem, which applies to all students, but it is perhaps most obvious to the pupils who are present in the special school sector. I am thinking of access to APL sites in professional programmes. The Swedish National Agency for Education has recently decided to allocate state grants to ensure that there can be work to ensure that special school pupils also have access to internships. It is extremely important for their entry into the labour market.
i-962b7263c844a818-305	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to continue on the same theme. We did not really get the answer to how students with an intellectual disability should have the opportunity for further studies, now that the lock-in that special high school entails should be removed. I am incredibly happy today about that announcement. It is acquiescence to a motion from, among others, me. I am fully aware that the decision has not yet been taken in this House. There's a couple of hours left. But it is not a new issue, and it is a united training committee that is behind it.
i-962b7263c844a818-308	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for following up on this important question, Christina Örnebjär! We have problems with lock-in, which is just as you describe, in the Swedish school. It takes several different forms. One of them is that the pupils who go out of special school have a tougher way into the labour market. I would like to stress that great efforts can be made, including for this group, to the extent that we can open up, through the upper secondary school's professional programme, to more practice and to the extent that we can use different forms of prao-solutions and the like. A few years ago, the Swedish National Agency for Education made a report on the work of municipalities to ensure workplace learning for this group as well. In fact, that report provides a basis for reflection. The Swedish school must be better at including all students in its activities. The target group that the committee and the House are apparently going to point out is important.
i-962b7263c844a818-313	Mr President, I would like to My anxiety really got a little bigger now. I am concerned that this matter of upper secondary school and further studies at higher education will disappear among other reforms, which of course are also important. My colleague Barbro Westerholm usually says that politics is like a marathon race. I had hoped that we would now be in the riot so that we would soon see something, get a decision and be on the finish line. When does the Government think that we will have something on the table that we can decide on and that leads to pupils in special school also being allowed to continue to study at college and universities?
i-962b7263c844a818-315	Mr President, I would like to The parable of a marathon is very good. I see this as an issue that is not very partisan. It is an area where it is difficult to come up with a result because it is a major challenge for many schools to fulfil that task. But it is an important challenge. As usual, there are no simple, quick solutions. It is about access to competent teachers, it is about ensuring the quality of teaching and it is about ensuring good interaction with the surrounding society.
i-962b7263c844a818-318	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to Mikael Damberg, who is responsible for general policy. I take my starting point in this weekend's Saturday interview in Ekot. There, Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll was asked, especially about health insurance, but also about parental insurance. As regards the latter, Annika Strandhäll made a number of suggestions on how insurance should be developed in the future, including that it should be shortened. I would like to ask Mikael Damberg how the government views one of the Christian Democrats' proposals. We want to see fully flexible parental insurance, where every day can be transferred from one parent to another. I know what the government's position is on that question. However, we also think that the possibility of transferring parental allowance days to other relatives should be increased. This could make life easier for many families, not least for single and same-sex parents. How does the government feel about that?
i-PgRQbnvTNadbQhGHyA9WZN	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Aron Courage! An investigation is now in progress. It will be a little bit to precede the outcome of that investigation, if we were to lock ourselves in exactly to the outcome of the investigation. It's going for a referral. Then there will be comments. And then the government makes decisions. It is clear that the Christian Democrats and the Social Democrats and the Green Party, which sit in the government, have different views on family policy. You do not have any ambitions for equality in family policy. You also want to reduce parental insurance from a gender perspective, as you just explained. And you are pushing the issue of a requirement for custody allowance that was demonstrably a women's trap – especially for the many women who have come to Sweden in recent years. There are differences of opinion. On one thing, however, we agree. It's looking at single people. Is it possible for them to transfer days to relatives? There's one thing the investigation should also look at.
i-962b7263c844a818-324	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I am well aware of the ongoing investigation. The government usually refers to it on these issues. What was special in the Saturday interview was that the responsible minister still began to discuss how to reformulate parental insurance in the future. Therefore, I thought it was worth asking whether the government has also taken a position on the issue of better opportunities to transfer parental allowance days to other close relatives as well.
i-962b7263c844a818-326	Mr President, I would like to I also listened to the Saturday interview and noticed that ideas and thoughts were presented about how parental insurance can develop in the future. This is not just about some kind of deterioration in insurance, as was described here, but rather about a development. For example, contact days could also be an opportunity in the future for many who have a little older children. There was also talk of how insurance should meet the modern family formations that exist today, such as star families and single people. It's definitely part of the investigation's mission to look at it. I hope they make good suggestions.
i-962b7263c844a818-328	Mr President, I would like to One of the cornerstones of the Swedish model is that the public takes responsibility for the education of the industry's skills supply across the country. People should be equipped with the training and skills they need to be able to develop the industries and industries where we have a possible economy. Rural and urban areas, suburbs and places of use – all parts of the country need to be developed on their own terms. An industry that grows so that it creaks is nature and ecotourism, which attracts people from all over the world to come to Sweden and experience all the different aspects of our nature.
i-3XVMShE16656Uqt6bYdn3Y	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Lena Hallengren! Natural Use Upper Secondary School is an important part of our Swedish upper secondary school. And the green industries are, as Lena Hallengren says, an important part of our strategy, for the whole of Sweden to live but also for the whole of Sweden to grow and for this growing industry to survive and develop. Natural tourism is constantly evolving. This applies not least to ecotourism. It is a growing industry throughout our country. In two reports, the Swedish National Agency for Education has made proposals on how to develop agricultural upper secondary schools in this respect. In addition, we have received the high school inquiry, which has been out for a referral. And the government's overall assessment is that the labour market needs will grow in the natural tourism sector. Therefore, we intend to go to the Swedish National Agency for Education and ask them to develop a new focus on nature tourism within the nature conservation programme.
i-962b7263c844a818-334	Mr President, I would like to I have a very brief supplementary question. Why does the government choose to announce these changes now and not wait until the Swedish National Agency for Education gets the assignment this autumn?
i-962b7263c844a818-336	Mr President, I would like to This is an issue that has really engaged. I have been asked about it at Question Time, interpellations and a lot of questions from both the industry and the press. It is obvious that this is an issue that is involved. Now that we had put our foot down and decided that we want a new focus on nature tourism, the government did not want to wait to give that message. We therefore chose to go out and say it now, even if the assignment to the Swedish National Agency for Education comes only this autumn.
i-962b7263c844a818-339	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to Minister of Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. Ceiling over your head is a human right. The right to housing should be a matter of course. But it's not today. More is being built in Sweden today than in 40 years. We have two major challenges: those outside the housing market must get into it. But what is being built must also be good for both people and the environment. Nevertheless, several groups are currently discriminated against and are not entering the housing market. One of these groups is the Roma. I know that the government has commissioned Boverket to review and combat discrimination against Roma in the housing market. I would like to hear how this mission is going.
i-962b7263c844a818-344	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. Antiziganism unfortunately has a long tradition and established history in Sweden. Roma still have a particularly vulnerable situation in the housing market. In addition, there is a large confidence gap between the Roma seeking housing and landlords. The mission we have given to Boverket is based on the Roma strategy developed by the previous government and Erik Ullenhag. We have broadened and deepened this strategy. Boverket is now doing a lot of work and producing an educational material, and there has been an interim report. This is done together with Roma actors, and these training courses will now be directed at landlords and property owners and Roma interest groups.
i-962b7263c844a818-347	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. You replied a little to my supplementary question, Alice Bah Kuhnke, which applies precisely if the Roma are also included in the work. That's what you said they are. But what is the timetable for this work? Is the work supposed to start now and is there some foresight in this?
i-962b7263c844a818-349	Mr President, I would like to This is an ongoing work, and Roma influence has been absolutely central. There are several studies that show that especially if you work with vulnerable groups it is extremely important that you do not do it from a top-down perspective. This is why the Roma who have worked in the project and the Roma organisations should have been very active. So you work in parallel. We will distribute the material and ensure that it has the effect that we want it to have.
i-962b7263c844a818-351	Mr President, I would like to My question also goes to Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. The government has chosen not to nominate any living Swedish traditions for UNESCO's list of intellectual cultural heritage. One can easily get the impression that the government lacks knowledge or, worse still, that the government believes that Swedish cultural heritage is not worth ending up on UNESCO's list.
i-962b7263c844a818-354	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for giving me the opportunity to talk about our Swedish cultural heritage for which I love and love and have spent a lot of time. Of course, the Swedish cultural heritage should be given space in many different ways. There are three different lists on which we work vis-à-vis UNESCO. Among other things, we have nominated Sago district in Kronoberg for one of them. However, with regard to the very one who has been involved in the debate, the expert authority in question, Isof, has said that we first need to work out methods to nominate correctly, so that it does not become arbitrary and where politicians catch up on trends and nominate. We should know that when we highlight the Swedish cultural heritage on UNESCO's lists, it should be something that the expertise and profession also means that we should spread and be proud of all over the world.
i-962b7263c844a818-357	Mr President, I would like to There are already traditions that have been identified as Swedish cultural heritage, including lucia trains, the Maypole in midsummer and so on. The concern is that the Ministry of Culture creates a feeling that it does not protect cultural heritage enough and is guided by temporary intellectual trends, such as the mission of the Museum of Far Eastern Asia and three other museums. What is the Minister doing to prevent this?
i-962b7263c844a818-358	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I think there are a number of misconceptions. As far as the list is concerned, Isof, the expert authority, has been given the task of drawing up a list. Isof makes assessments and gives the government recommendations. We will work out this list properly and work methods so that there will not be trends and whims. Above all, it should not be politicians who sit and think a little casually about what seems hot or good. It should be based on what the expertise and profession says.
i-962b7263c844a818-359	Mr President, I would like to My question concerns the same subject. I believe that as Minister of Culture, they have a mission to highlight our Swedish culture, and in this case our Swedish cultural heritage, when they are on international and national missions. Some examples – mentioned earlier – are lucia trains, coffee, eel fishing and more. It is precisely the cultural heritage that is in danger of disappearing that should be graduated so that they do not disappear. Instead, you get stuck in a recommendation that is completely incomprehensible to sensible people outside the department walls. My question is: why does the Minister choose not to nominate Swedish cultural heritage for UNESCO's lists of intellectual cultural heritage?
i-962b7263c844a818-363	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for giving me the opportunity to talk about this, because I believe that this is a crucial discussion in order for us not to have arbitrariness in this regard and for us as politicians not to nominate and highlight trends and to turn the cloak behind the wind in terms of what applies at the moment. There is a profession and expertise that works with the Swedish cultural heritage. That is something we should be extremely proud of. But then we will also take the steps in the right order. I maintain that we should avoid subjective hierarchies of value that are arbitrarily decided. We will do this on the basis of the profession. Then it is better that it takes time and gets right than that it gets wrong and trendy.
i-962b7263c844a818-365	Mr President, I would like to Once again, the Minister is showing a great ignorance. There are lists made by the public, and there is an expertise. Why aren't they used? If you let time pass, our cultural heritage will disappear. Right now, there are many who stand and fall apart. I ask again: why does the Minister not want to highlight the cultural heritage that we have on UNESCO's list? The feeling you get is that our cultural heritage is not worth anything, and it is extremely sad.
i-962b7263c844a818-368	Mr President, I would like to There is clearly a need for a high level of knowledge to be acquired here. There are three different lists. For one of these lists we nominated a few months ago the story district of Kronoberg – an intangible cultural heritage. With regard to the list that is up to date in the discussion, the expert authority, Isof, makes the assessment that we first need a method to nominate in order not to become arbitrary. Not only should we turn the coat after the wind so that there will be short-term trends, but we should have a method that will hold.
i-962b7263c844a818-372	Mr President, I would like to I am going to ask a question to the Minister for Culture and Democracy, Alice Bah Kuhnke, who I've been running around on some things, and it concerns a new film investigation. In view of the announcement that has come from Parliament on film policy and a new film investigation, I am interested in knowing when this film investigation will come. It is about getting a functioning film policy in the future. The question is simply when the investigation comes.
i-962b7263c844a818-374	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. I had the great pleasure of having a lot of debate on film policy last year. Now we have a new Swedish film policy in place that ensures that we will have many good and good films to see that are produced and made by Swedish artists. It is also a film policy that creates space for cinemas and films throughout our country. It feels very cool to be part of a government that brings this out. With regard to the announcement that Roland Utbolt is highlighting, and which we shall of course respond to, we are currently working on the new film policy. It must first rise and roll before we can grasp the announcement. I would like to remind you that during the last parliamentary term, the then government took an average of three years to comply with announcements.
i-962b7263c844a818-377	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. Nevertheless, I am concerned that time is running out and that it may eventually be that the announcement does not really have any effect. I would therefore like to be assured of that. After all, it is a constitutional question that one takes care of an announcement and not just deals with it or looks at it, so I would like a more concrete answer.
i-962b7263c844a818-378	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Government respects the order of the Riksdag, and of course we will accommodate and comply with announcements.
i-962b7263c844a818-380	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Morgan Johansson. Many are the tenants who ask for clearer rules and greater influence to increase the security of those who rent their accommodation. In the summer of 2015, the Government also appointed an investigation into a strengthened position for tenants. The commission for the investigation was to review, among other things, whether the tenants' influence needs to be strengthened and to review the possibilities to take action if a property owner mismanage their properties. The study has now presented its conclusions, and it has proposed increased requirements for information and that greater consideration should be given to the interests of tenants in renovations. In addition, opportunities are needed to act against property owners who are not doing well. My question is: Why does the Government think it is important to look at strengthened rights for tenants?
i-962b7263c844a818-383	Mr President, I would like to The short answer is that we saw that need in the tenants. That is why we appointed the investigation – to strengthen the position of tenants. These are, for example, renovation situations. We know that in many places there are some housing holdings with a rather neglected maintenance. You have to renovate and entertain. At the same time, we know that there is a risk that the rent will be raised every time it is done, and in some cases tenants may end up in very difficult situations where they simply cannot afford to stay any longer. That is the balance we must constantly take into account. The proposals I have now received are aimed, among other things, at increasing information in these situations. It is also about the possibility of being involved in making your voice heard in the decisions and increasing your influence. The investigation is on the table, and we will later decide exactly how to proceed with each individual proposal.
i-962b7263c844a818-386	Mr President, I would like to My question is also whether the Government believes that the proposals that have come from the investigation – quite recently, in and of itself – meet the need for strengthened rights for tenants and how the government will proceed with the matter.
i-962b7263c844a818-387	Mr President, I would like to I received this a few weeks ago by Agneta Börjesson, who was appointed special investigator. She had a wide range of proposals where perhaps the most important thing was precisely to increase the obligation to inform tenants in these situations, but it was also about looking at what the balance between tenants and property owners should look like in terms of influence. The investigation is open to consultation for a few more months, and when we receive the referral points, we will take a final position. The focus, however, is that we want to strengthen the tenants' position.
i-962b7263c844a818-390	Mr President, I would like to Aviation tax, financial tax, mileage tax, entrepreneurial tax, increased marginal tax – the list of government tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship is becoming increasingly worrying. Taxes affect people's behaviour. That is why we have a high tax on alcohol and tobacco; that is why we are restricting its use. Against this background, it is remarkable that the government so clearly chooses to tax those who create jobs. We know that four out of five jobs are being created in small businesses. In view of this, I would like to ask Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg: How many jobs will disappear as a result of the government's tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship?
i-962b7263c844a818-392	Mr President, I would like to I said in a previous speech that what concerns me is Moderate tax policy. It means strong tax cuts that would not only hit welfare jobs but also mean an investment brake in Sweden. The biggest problem entrepreneurs have around Sweden is to get the right skilled staff. There are a hundred thousand vacancies, but we are unable to match the education system with the job vacancies. This means that the growth rate in enterprises is limited while unemployment in Sweden remains too high. The biggest growth barrier for larger cities around Sweden and in many smaller cities is a historically inadequate housing policy. That is why we are making historically large investments in housing construction, because we know what it means for entrepreneurship and new jobs in Sweden. The policy of the Moderates was presented the other day. You've been running the first, second, third, fourth and fifth job tax deduction, and now it's a sixth. I hardly know how many tax deductions you've introduced. The problem is that it does not create jobs; instead, it reduces tax revenues to welfare.
i-962b7263c844a818-395	Mr President, I would like to I note that I did not receive an answer to my question. It is true that the Government says: The Moderates want to increase the drive for jobs and entrepreneurship, and we are pursuing a policy that we know works in that area. On the other hand, the government seems to do exactly the opposite. The government's own goal is for Sweden to have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. How does the government mean to achieve this goal when, at the same time, you raise taxes for those who create jobs?
i-962b7263c844a818-396	Mr President, I would like to You can look at differences in results. We had a bourgeois government led by the Moderates for eight years, and during that time you carried out these unfunded tax cuts. They led to an increased deficit, increased unemployment and a deficit in investment. Now we have turned that policy, and now the Swedish economy is going very well. If we do not invest in education, infrastructure, broadband expansion and housing policy, the risk is that growth will stop. It is therefore important to keep public finances in order so that the necessary investments can be made.
i-962b7263c844a818-398	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. Yesterday was Press Freedom Day. The fact that we have a free press is an important part of a democracy. Unfortunately, we see that the pressure in other parts of Europe is becoming increasingly difficult to act because it wants to be controlled and narrowed. In Sweden, we have seen in recent years how journalists have received threats and been subjected to serious harassment. My question to the Minister is: What is the government doing to improve the conditions for journalists in Sweden?
i-B4XZJLjaJKwfJ6DbjxxuVR	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for this urgent question, Gunilla Carlsson! Yes, yesterday was Press Freedom Day. I was with Eskilstuna Kuriren, who has done a fantastic journalistic job for many, many years, but not least during the last year. It is true that threats and hatreds against journalists are threats and hatreds that actually have consequences for our society as a whole. It affects us all and threatens our democracy. Journalists are one of three identified groups who are exposed to threats and who work with opinion-forming issues. That is why, over the past year, we have been working intensively on an action plan that we will be presenting in a few months' time. There we focus on the support and resources to ensure that those who work with the free speech, those who form opinion, those who are journalists, those who are elected – not least local politicians – and those who are artists should be able to carry out their activities, for our good and woe to all.
i-962b7263c844a818-402	Mr President, I would like to I think this is incredibly important if we are to protect democracy. We need to find the tools for people to be journalists. But another question is also how we act to actually ensure that this happens. What responsibility do we have as citizens? It is about supporting journalists who are exposed to threats and hatred, but how can we also get citizens to think about their responsibilities in the process?
i-962b7263c844a818-403	Mr President, I would like to There's a lot you can do. Among other things, the Government supports the work with MIK, i.e. media and information literacy. We all need to be better at checking sources so as not to spread false news and not undermine the important role of journalism. In addition, in the library strategy, we have not only a job to increase the knowledge of school children but also plans to deploy resources to increase the knowledge of adults.
i-962b7263c844a818-405	Mr President, I would like to My question also goes to Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. The question is about the cultural school inquiry. We all look forward to a bill eventually coming. I recently had the privilege to participate when Rum – Sweden's largest youth association for music – had its annual meeting, to talk about the cultural school inquiry. The investigation is good and interesting, but there are parts in it that at least we Moderates are not very fond of. It says that the cultural school should be accessible to everyone. However, not all activities are tax-funded, as cultural schools cannot offer this. I am thinking, for example, of dancing, which is very popular among many young people. There, parents can go in and pay, because it's not tax-funded.
i-42ytPpwQzEhXxfcC5tBm2M	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Eva Lohman, for the question! I've received the cultural school inquiry. We have gone through the referrals, and we work with some consultation bodies – not least with SKL and with moderate-led municipalities. This is a municipal operation and will remain so. But it is of national interest, and we see that the inequalities are very great. It is therefore crucial that we ensure that the efforts that the government is now making are done properly. For the first time, we invest SEK 100 million in giving all children the opportunity to stand on stage and learn an instrument, learn to dance or play theatre. We need to ensure that these resources are put right and that they really stimulate greater and equal participation throughout our country. I agree with what Eva Lohman says: there is a lot in the investigation that is good, but it also got some areas where we need to take stock. Above all, we need to have Sweden's municipalities with us. The government will not present anything that Sweden's municipalities also feel they want to carry and do.
i-962b7263c844a818-415	Mr President, I would like to That sounds positive, because it is important that this remains a municipal activity. Another thing came up about the Association of Music and Youth Rooms. The investigation states that group work should be the norm, which is a little worrying. How should those who want to develop their artistic and technological talent and who need individual teaching receive this? In the future, Sweden will need to be specially trained in the field of art music.
i-962b7263c844a818-418	Mr President, I would like to Width gives tip. For me and for the government, it is obvious that we should both create opportunities for breadth – for everyone – and be a country that can afford to invest at the head. We will have the best artists, culturalists, dancers, actors and musicians. This government will work clearly for this.
i-962b7263c844a818-421	Mr President, I would like to The last students I was class manager for before I became a member of Parliament this year will take the student. I am extremely proud of them, and I have gladly followed their years in high school. However, I know that according to the statistics, approximately one third of them will unfortunately not receive full grades when they leave high school. This is a great sorrow for me and a great problem for our society. That is why I am grateful that we live in a country where we have many other ways back to study and to work. A shining example of these roads is our folk high schools, which I now want to lift up.
i-C1gd1cMNztvLF4e9XELGsp	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anna Wallentheim, for the question. We have talked a lot about taxes during this Question Time. Here we have a national tax – our Swedish folk high schools – that can offer not only young people but also the rest of the population a rich flora of education. Folk high schools can also offer a vital ingredient in our education system, namely a proper portion of education. We live in a time when people's education is perhaps more important than ever – a time when alternative facts arise and the world, the problems and solutions are painted in black and white. At this time, folk high schools can help us to get a slightly greyer understanding of how big and difficult the problems in society are. I would like to see folk high schools that are based on folk education but which offer education to more groups than is the case today. I would like to see more groups with inadequate upper secondary education able to attend folk high schools.
i-962b7263c844a818-428	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. I am very happy to hear that Anna Ekström seems to have the same view of the folk high schools that I have, namely that they are a fantastic arena for people to get education and for people to be able to find their way back to society and to work when, for example, high school has not worked for them. But I must also ask the question, of course: Is there not a risk that the specific nature of folk high schools will disappear when we invest and make them very big?
i-962b7263c844a818-431	Mr President, I would like to Anna Wallentheim is absolutely right: this is a development that we must keep an eye on. I and the government want folk high schools to be able to reach more – I am thinking not least of the many young people who leave upper secondary school with incomplete grades and of the many newly arrived students who have come here, who can be offered a good start in Swedish society. We want to increase the number of places in folk high schools, but we want to do this in such a way that the speciality of folk high school, where education and a somewhat slower learning can be given place, remains.
i-962b7263c844a818-433	Mr President, I would like to I have a general political question for Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg. The question is in yes-or-no form, so it is not possible to wriggle. The Swedish Parliament has decided on an additional directive for the Labour Market Investigation, which was due to be introduced by 31 March. The Swedish Parliament considered that the investigation should develop proposals on how parts of Arbetsförmedlingen's assignments that do not involve the exercise of public authority can be laid out to other actors.
i-962b7263c844a818-435	Mr President, I would like to After all, the employment services are often debated – not least today, when the Minister for Labour himself has held a press conference where several new measures by the government have been presented. These measures mean tougher demands on the Public Employment Service to deliver better results and to be able to monitor activities better. The measures also involve a reversal and clarification of the regional mission of the Public Employment Service – to be able to interact with municipalities and regions for the provision of skills. This is one of the keys, not least for Sweden's growth. When it comes to alternative performers and complements to Arbetsförmedlingen's operations, the government has invested in matching actors. We now go in and stimulate other players who can match jobs. This project is run by Tillväxtverket in collaboration with Arbetsförmedlingen and is an example of work that goes in line with what Erik Andersson wants.
i-962b7263c844a818-438	Mr President, I would like to I also listened to the press conference. Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson was clear in his lack of clarity – the question of the directive was raised there too, and I could not interpret it in any other way than that it has not been added. As the Riksdag has decided on this, I think that the Government is showing disregard for the Riksdag by not yet adding the Additional Directive. I hope that the Minister for Economic Affairs will speak to the other government and ensure that this is done as soon as possible.
i-962b7263c844a818-440	Mr President, I would like to I can guarantee that we in the government often talk about treating announcements with respect and doing what the Constitution requires of us. On the other hand, one can say that the Arbetsförmedlingen was in very bad condition when we took over. We have had to turn the Arbetsförmedlingen's business around to become more of a matching actor, so that they also work to convey jobs and education to the shortage professions that we see around Sweden. Today, the Minister for Labour made further moves to strengthen the regional link of the Employment Service. I think this is a welcome development.
i-962b7263c844a818-444	Mr President, I would like to I will not repeat Roland Utbolt's trick to the Minister for Culture – my question is addressed to her. The Minister for Culture said in a previous reply that it is wrong and that trendy is bad, which I fully agree with. The new film policy is wrong and trendy, and in less than six months the consequences have begun to manifest themselves. For example, cinema visits have declined because the tax on cinema visits has gone up from 6 to 25 percent. The film production, which the Minister of Culture talked about so much, has received SEK 30 million less this year.
i-HiHwnbx1B4FSyNbR7QnwUX	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Cecilia Magnusson! I was about to put out an answer that touched on alternative facts, but that might not be appropriate. It's like this: There will be more money for Swedish film. The old film agreement included the money that SVT contributed. In the new film policy, SVT's efforts are on top of the already major investments made by this government. It is very important to keep track of the facts in the debate. That goes without saying. You like numbers, I see. If we have promised that there will be at least as much money, then there is at least as much money. I just want it to be clear before we stand and debate this issue in this House.
i-962b7263c844a818-451	Mr President, I would like to We don't usually address the Speaker with you. I'll answer the question. It is the Swedish Film Institute that reports these figures that it will be SEK 30 million less for Swedish film production. The big winner in this is the state that wins SEK 65 million, which could have gone to Swedish film. How will Swedish film get more money? I would like an answer to that.
i-962b7263c844a818-452	Mr President, I would like to There is more money for Swedish film. I call on the honourable Member to get into the figures in the books properly to ensure that the wrong things are not said in this House. In addition, Swedish films have gone so brilliantly well that the cinemas have earned more money than SFI calculated for. That is a positive thing.
i-962b7263c844a818-453	Mr President, I would like to During the week I was contacted by Karl-Axel-Axel, who has trained for his dream job. He also started a company with his dream job. He contacted an insurance company to take out insurance policies, including life insurance and accident insurance, which he felt he needed to have as an entrepreneur. It should be remembered in this context that Karl-Karl-Axel is undergoing a gender correction. He was turned down by taking out insurance policies because he went through the sex correction. I understand that individual cases cannot be commented on in this way. But the interesting thing in this case is that we have heard of insurance companies saying that one or the other does not get insurance for one reason or another.
i-962b7263c844a818-457	Mr President, I would like to As Börje Vestlund says, I cannot comment on individual cases. I will be very interested in the situation. The short answer, of course, is that insurance cannot be refused on inappropriate grounds. I would like to gather some more information on what this situation looks like. However, we should have no discrimination against those who are undergoing gender correction or for other reasons in this context. Let me return to the question later, when we have taken in more information.
i-962b7263c844a818-459	Mr President, I would like to I have to admit, I have no supplementary question. We'll have to get back to you when it's settled.
i-962b7263c844a818-461	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Minister Anna Ekström. Yesterday and today there are a lot of teachers, principals and other school-interesters who are out at Kistamässan. It is the SETT fair, which is a fair that focuses entirely on the use of IT in schools. IT at school has great opportunities in terms of both simplified administration and educational development. It is crucial for success that teachers have the right skills to manage the possibilities of technology. I'm afraid that's not exactly what it looks like. A survey from the Ministry of NarratorS shows that half of the country's teachers and students feel ill prepared to conduct digital education.
i-Lh1C9zNun7nXpcPQFJUo5H	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the question. It is quite true, when we discuss IT at school, that it is clear that equipment, content in software and the like matter. But the crucial thing is the competence of teachers. In all the evaluations carried out by the Swedish National Agency for Education and other evaluators, we see that the lack of competence is constantly cited as the biggest problem and the biggest obstacle to success, no matter who we ask. The teachers themselves also state that they have a very great need for skills. Within the framework of the national school development programmes on which the government has invested very large amounts during the term of office, various forms of support for teachers' skills development are also included in the IT field as a very crucial part. Of course, teacher training is also important. I hope to have an opportunity to come back in the next speech on this issue, because my speaking time is now up.
i-962b7263c844a818-470	Mr President, I would like to We have a situation right now in Sweden where many schools and municipalities are investing in getting to the IT infrastructure in a good way. They are also investing heavily in training teachers that they already have in their classrooms today. We Moderates have proposed to bring digital didactics and methodology when you come as a newly graduated teacher. My question is this: does the Government think it reasonable that we have a situation, as we have today, where the first thing we can do as a principal is to get started and further train new graduates because they do not have digital skills?
i-962b7263c844a818-472	Mr President, I would like to The prerequisite for being able to teach in a school where the digital environment already exists, and where, for example, topics such as programming will now be included in curricula and curricula, is that teacher education should provide such a good foundation. We are working on this issue in the Government Office. At the same time, a very large proportion of the teaching that exists is done by teachers who already exist in our school. Substantial efforts are also needed there.
i-962b7263c844a818-473	Mr President, I would like to I have a question about the establishment of computer halls in Sweden, which I would like to address to Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg. The background to my question is, in fact, the obvious. It is good for Sweden, work, growth and welfare if we are at the forefront when it comes to different parts of digitalisation. I myself have had the opportunity to visit for example Luleå and LTU, who work strategically with, for example, getting establishments as Facebook to their region. It is now gratifying that other international companies will establish themselves in Sweden. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation is: How does the government work to get more such investments to Sweden?
i-962b7263c844a818-476	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. That is an important issue. The ta has the opportunity to become a new basic industry in Sweden. It will drive the digitalisation of other Swedish industry if we get the investments made. Luleå was the first to open the way. We have a lot to thank them for in their work when they brought Facebook here. Yesterday I was at a conference where I welcomed Amazon Web Services, which is now building new services in Västerås, Katrineholm and Eskilstuna. Also in Avesta, a very large player has decided to make investments. The government has assigned a mission to Business Sweden. They are now working with investment promotion directly towards, for example, data server halls. But we're also working on the tax issue. Nowadays, data server halls are to be considered as other Swedish industry. A highly competitive energy taxation is a very important part of future developments.
i-962b7263c844a818-479	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to computer halls, I think that different regions in Sweden perhaps complement each other rather than compete. As a Member from Tyresö in the Stockholm region, I am naturally curious about what the Minister thinks about the reasons why Amazon is now establishing itself in the Stockholm and Mälardal regions and also what the Minister believes about the future competitiveness of the region.
i-962b7263c844a818-480	Mr President, I would like to Here, I'll be a little careful. We do not usually have any views on where private companies choose to invest, provided that they do so in Sweden, which is our interest. I met the Amazon Web Service's yesterday. Then they explained that it was their proximity to customers. These are cloud services. They want to work close to their customers, look at skills supply and have a very green and stable energy system. All those parameters were found here. I want to stress that Luleå was there, Avesta is there, and I think there will be more.
i-962b7263c844a818-483	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson. Last night, the ID checks were removed between Denmark and Sweden. The police found out at very short notice. I think it was the day before they found out. The police were called to an emergency meeting. They just don't know how to solve it. The ID controls have been removed, but border controls should in principle double. How does the government expect this to work out in practical terms? How do you get staff on such short notice? How can you get cameras in place, for example? What's missing? I am worried that many asylum seekers will go to Sweden in the way that happened in autumn 2015. What is the government's assessment? How many more people think the government will apply for asylum in Sweden now that the ID checks have been removed?
i-962b7263c844a818-487	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to get that question from a Moderate, because when it really went and we pushed through the ID controls, the Moderates did not vote in favour but abstained. You criticise us both when we introduce the ID checks and when we abolish the ID checks. It is also a form of opposition, but perhaps you should be a little more consistent. We said from the beginning that the ID controls are temporary. We will have them as long as we need them, and when we no longer need them, we will have to phase them out. What we said the other day is that we are also tightening up border controls. In fact, the intensity of border controls has already increased. Between 90 and 100 percent of all passers by Hyllie have been controlled by the police in recent weeks. The intensity has already been increased, and this will continue. I'm sure you need to hire more staff. I believe that this is mainly about more civilian staff. We are sending SEK 700 million to the Swedish police with the spring change budget.
i-962b7263c844a818-491	Mr President, I would like to There are already many asylum seekers in Sweden who have not come out into society. There is a shortage of housing and employment, and there are quite a lot of problems in schools and many other places. For example, Malmö has said that they want a refugee break to catch up. The government has said that it is prepared to reintroduce the ID controls if necessary. Where's the line? Is there 500 more per week, 1 000 more per week or 3 000 more per week that apply to reintroducing ID checks?
i-962b7263c844a818-493	Mr President, I would like to We have clearly said that Sweden should not return to the same situation as in 2015. That is why this government took responsibility through border controls, identity checks and amended legislation. What distinguishes the situation now from a year ago is that we have changed the legislation so that Sweden is at the EU minimum level but also that Germany has grazed its backlog, i.e. those who were not registered before. This means that we now have the courage to take this step. We follow this day by day and week by week, but after our overall assessment we believe it is possible to remove the ID checks.
i-962b7263c844a818-497	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Mikael Damberg. Yesterday I attended a very shocking seminar on China's transplant industry. It is a truly dark story in which illegal removal of organs from Chinese prisoners of conscience earns 9 - 10 billion dollars annually. Of course, the Chinese regime's crimes against humanity have been highlighted, and the international community has reacted strongly.
i-962b7263c844a818-501	Mr President, I would like to I will be honest and say that I am not as up-to-date on this issue as the honourable Member. I wasn't at the seminary last night. However, Sweden is clear about human rights and is monitoring them in all contexts. Sometimes we are criticised for making criticisms of other countries about human rights violations. We will continue to do so. I hope that the honourable Member will be able to put this question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs or other ministers who have better knowledge of the matter. I don't want to say anything I don't have a signal for.
i-962b7263c844a818-504	Mr President, I would like to I expected the Minister to react humanly. But the Minister wants evidence that already exists and points out that he is not familiar with the matter. I believe that, in view of the government's responsibility for foreign policy, there should be an answer. What is happening in China is a well-known fact.
i-962b7263c844a818-506	Mr President, I would like to I think it is human to not keep track of every single political issue, even when going to Parliament's Question Time. However, the government is determined to stand up for human rights in all countries all over the world. This is an important principle on which I hope and believe there is broad political agreement in the Swedish Parliament.
i-962b7263c844a818-509	Mr President, I would like to My question is also of a general political nature and goes to Minister Mikael Damberg. My question also applies to China, however the Democratic Republic of China, Taiwan, which, of course, Sweden has good business relations with but not fully diplomatic relations given the situation. In mainland China, that is, the Communist People's Republic of China, it is working hard to prevent Taiwan from participating in international assemblies. Most recently, it concerned the World Health Organisation, where for the first time in a long time it has not been invited. How will the government work to ensure that the Republic of China, Taiwan, can participate in international contexts, such as the UN and WHO?
i-962b7263c844a818-513	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has an important role in fighting for people in areas that are not even China but that China believes that it has the right to decide over should have the right to influence and decide over their own future and that they should, where appropriate, be able to have democratic elections and decide for themselves and not have leaders appointed for themselves. There are several such areas to which China claims. It is important for us in various international fora to suggest that we believe that people should have the right to decide their own future and that China should also respect international law.
i-962b7263c844a818-515	Mr President, I would like to Can I interpret Mikael Damberg's reply as meaning that the Swedish Government will push for representatives of democratic China, Taiwan, to participate in international forums? After all, the government is pushing for Palestine to participate in different ways. It is also a state of complicated relations. It is important for Taiwan to be involved.
i-962b7263c844a818-518	Mr President, I would like to There is a certain difference between Taiwan and Palestine because the Swedish Government has recognised Palestine as a state. This means that Palestine has some rights internationally that other areas do not have. However, this does not mean that Sweden should not be active in continuing to discuss that people and people in different parts of the world also have the right to decide and influence their own future.
i-962b7263c844a818-520	That concludes Question Time today. I would like to thank the ministers and Members who have participated.
i-UtwBG1gouP3ghm78fT6HXi	Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 8 in UbU17, reservation 13 in UbU18 and reservation 4 in UbU19. Let me give some cred to the Alliance. Reforms take time, Mr President. The Alliance must be ready for this. The Alliance carried out reforms in its eight years, which have recently yielded results. Above all, the knowledge of students and teachers has increased. That's the big difference. As teachers, both in this House and among those who listen to us, we know that the period from interpretation to workshop and to the fact that there is an actual result for students is 5 – 8 years, that is, much longer than a term of office. Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by addressing the UbU17 and what is essential. Here we have a proposal which would make a great deal easier. It's about the Bunkeflo model. Those of us who have debated these issues in the past know that the Bunkeflo model has produced fantastic results. Normally, 80 percent of the students enter upper secondary school. Of the first hill to complete comprehensive school on the basis of the Bunkef lo model, 96 per cent of the students entered upper secondary school. What is the Bunkeflo model? We have exercised that it should be called Bunkeflo 2.0. We want both association life and business in school. In this way, the school is linked to both the community and the business community. The business community was previously involved with the school, but unfortunately threads between them have been lost. When you take the association life into school, there is an extreme amount of time released for the teaching college. Then there is another adult in the room who can take care of the students while the teacher can focus on other things. This often creates a relationship with society. As a sports teacher, I have often used association life as a tool against those students who did not really do well in the classroom. I had close contact with the associations they were in. Then we had an agreement between the students, the parents and the associations, that if the students did not manage the school, they were not allowed to attend the matches either. There is also meaning in what you do. You know why you learn in school. The SYVs have unfortunately more or less disappeared in the Swedish school system or they have so many students to take care of that they may only have 1 1⁄2 – 2 minutes to devote to each child. There is a great flaw here. Previous speakers have talked a lot about digital national tests that should be corrected centrally – thank you! I know that both Camilla and Ulrika have been teachers. How many hours we have spent correcting these tests when that work could be done digitally and centrally! This ensures equality in the Swedish school system. If national tests are then introduced even in grade 8, which we have proposed together with the Alliance, one year as a teacher will have to take action. Now I go to UbU18 about teachers and students. I think there's a miswrite in the school law. If a teacher comes here from another country, you can teach on all subjects except in your own native language. If you come here from, for example, Canada and work as a teacher in Sweden, you get to teach and grade all other subjects except English, which is completely sick. We want to change that. We also have suggestions that school leaders – and we have taken this example from Finland – should carry out 5% of their working hours in the classroom as educators. Then we make sure that more and more principals have a teacher's background, which is of enormous benefit. As a teacher, I can speak about that. I've worked with the different types of principals. I know that this works very well in Finland, so we in Sweden do not need to take it to heart without research. The proposal is not just picked up. It already exists and works very well. It would also give school leaders an insight into how it is in the classroom. Congratulations to all teachers who listen to this and who are still able to do it! There's a show eight hours a day in the classroom, and you have to keep up with it. The secret to being a good teacher is to be able to do it. If you are able to be a good teacher, the students also feel it quite quickly. I have mentioned the SYVs before. We have suggestions to create a platform for SYVs. It's supposed to be a platform where you're digitally connected to other SUVs. A student can suddenly think that he wants to study intensification and wants to know what line to look for. Probably there's an SYV at that school who doesn't have a clue about this. But if there is a network, the issue can be put out there. It doesn't have to be more difficult than a Facebook network. We want the government to develop such a network so that the SYVs can communicate with each other in the country. This gives them another strength instead of a weakness. The next question is the working and school environment of pupils and educators. It is time to remove the municipal budget regulator. The municipality is unable to manage this money because it cuts down on school health care. Today, school health care is one of the most important legs in school. Why do so many students feel bad? Because there is no functioning school health care system. If a student is looking for a curator today, the student may have to wait for months before meeting a curator. The curators are heavily overloaded and the number is undersized. Local authorities have constantly cut back on this since 1991. We want to restore a real school environment for students in school health care. This is also essential for teachers to be able to be good teachers. They shouldn't have to be a janitor, not an IT consultant, not a school sister, not a school doctor. All these things need to be reinstated. In UbU19 there is an overall discussion on this. Above all, we want a level grouping with a general and special course. Everyone who's old enough recognizes it. In the past, one could choose between general and special courses. We want to reintroduce general and special courses in mathematics, Swedish and English. Not all children are the same. All children have different conditions for the different subjects. Then a tier grouping must be reinstated. There should be no wall between levels so that you cannot change. Of course you should be able to change. We could do that in our time, and then today's students should be able to do the same. Camilla from the Moderates talked about government takeovers, if I understand it correctly. We've both been to Academy Schools in England. There was a government takeover. It should not only apply to free schools as it is today, but also to public schools in the municipalities. At present, you can mismanage a municipal school in any way and show how bad results can be achieved without anything happening. You have to be able to go in here. A few years ago we could watch the TV series Class 9A. It was about a Greek mathematics teacher who went in and steered a class. We want a state principal who goes in and runs an entire school. I don't know if you can have attributes here in the speaker's chair. But I'd like to show you my Wanted Wins-in-the-Value Smurf. My group leader Mattias Karlsson has in long debates used Smurfs to try to explain this with profits in the welfare of other parties. I will now take this opportunity to speak clearly. Where do the Swedish Democrats stand on this issue? No, Lena Hallengren, it should not be that the permit for a free school is withdrawn by a state takeover and that the permit is reintroduced so that the free school can make new profits. We see that there are many levels where you can steer this up with the free schools and the municipal schools so that it becomes equal and fair. If you want to start a school, you have to ask for permission. This is already the case today, but the permit is not transferred to a new owner. Should there be strange takeovers in mainly free schools, you should apply for a new permit. That is the first clarity that I want to make. The second point is that we want a probationary right for municipal schools, not a veto right, but a probationary right. The right of veto puts the free schools on very slippery ice. Both bodies should be able to apply to the Swedish School Inspectorate for a review, which has a specialised unit that can decide on the whole country's preschools. In this way, there will also be a similarity throughout the country. What's the next step? Yes, it's oversight. The number of unannounced inspections must increase sharply. There are far too few people in the School Inspectorate who make unannounced visits. This is particularly true of secular schools. We would like to see a sharp increase there so that we can see that things are going right there. I'll exemplify quality very easily. Today there is a system at the Swedish National Agency for Education, Select a school. There you can search for levels and schools. We want a more public system than that, Mr President. We would like to have a simple system similar to that when we are going on vacation with our families. Then you can look at hotels and other accommodations and see where they are and how many gold stars they have. How many stars does this campsite have and how many do they have there? It is a public system in which schools are presented and where they are shown what quality they have. It would be quite easy to have national tests as a parameter, if we make them digital and thus ensure that it is not cheated. Then there are sanctions and penalties, and here I want to be very clear, Mr President: I do not want to punish the schools that misbehave by demanding them for money. I do not want us to put up a sum of money that they have to deposit with, because if we do, they will get even less money by next year to do the job and do the job and that is completely wrong. There are many other things, such as a ban on dividends if it is a free school. Withdrawal of permits is far more sharp and effective than imposing fines on schools. This applies to both municipal schools and free schools. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to make it very clear that taxes are paid in Sweden and nowhere else. I want to ensure that the tax stays in Sweden. Through EU entry, we have seen money disappear from Sweden all the time. In the past, Mr President, I gave SEK 100 to someone I wanted to do a job. They paid tax to the municipality, Mr President, and I got 30 kroner back. Then I took these 30 kroner and used them again, got back 10 kroner, then 3 kroner and so 1 kroner – more than 140 kroner to use instead of 100 kroner for some company that does not tax in Sweden and money that just disappears. We have talked about a buffer, something that we are very clear about in the exercise. I'll explain it to you: a school should not be able to close down. If I remember correctly, it was a free school that closed down some units, including in Eskilstuna, where there was a note with a thank you for this time. Then all the students had to race over to the municipal school. That's not how it's supposed to work. There must be a buffer before you can withdraw any profit at all in order to ensure that students can finish the semester. With this, I think my smurfing is done, so I can take him away. This is an attribute that I know Mattias Karlsson has used; I hope it has reached everyone in here where we stand. We also want to look very carefully at the secular schools. We have even raised a motion as a simple exercise, Mr President, because it is very topical right now to carry out an objective investigation into what it actually looks like. I know that many of the Christian preschools are on the top 50 ‐ list. They are doing very well and have a very good record. But we want a public and objective investigation. How does the policy of the Swedish Democrats work? We can imagine Jenga. Daniel Riazat was into this before and felt that we did not have politics in all areas. I have explained once why we do not have it, and that is because some things we ourselves are not guilty of having developed. Then we have no policy for it, but we would rather have a policy that solves the problems before they arise. If Mr Jenga is thinking of the three-piece wooden game, it is a question of picking out these pieces from below, putting them on top and getting as high a stack as possible, and then you have won. That is what the other seven parties have been doing all these years, and that is what the Swedish Democrats do not want to do. We don't want this shrill tower where the school system's barely on its feet anymore. We want to remove the proposals in this Jenga stack which are bad proposals, and we do so by removing some of the efforts made by the other parties, especially the government responsible for the budget. We are taking away some bets, and then it is easy to get this discussion about 10 billion here or there. But I think I've explained it quite clearly many times, so I hope I don't have to take it again. We want to take those bets that are not effective and throw them in the trash basket, and then we want to recreate this wooden stack into the bottom so that we get a Jenga stack that stands still. Only then can we develop the school forward. I think I have commented on most of it, but I have a little interesting thing that I would like to raise before I finish. It's just this about the School Commission. For once, they have been incredibly successful in doing a good analysis. A few proposals have been put into practice which were not all very successful. For example, when it comes to drawing lots, Mr President, we have failed completely. What happens now that we have finally set up a Commission made up of scientists and experienced people in this area, where all parties have actually been given input? So what do we do? Well, we're shutting down the School Commission. When we finally found a solution! This could be something left. Imagine using that experience in the future – not closing down areas of knowledge but maintaining them! Mr President, I would like to I had the privilege of visiting Singapore recently, and there is this body. They call it Ministry of Education, MOE, and it's still there. No matter which party takes over, no matter what happens around here, this body is still here. Here we have a problem in Sweden. Last time I counted, Mr President, I think I landed in 447 state institutions. In Sweden, we solve problems that arise with the appointment of another institution. We don't want that. The lack of clarity in the Swedish school system is already large enough today. We want to add a Ministry of Education in Sweden – we think that would have been the solution to many of the problems that exist in the Swedish school system.
i-962b7263c844a818-566	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry, Stefan Jakobsson, but the smurf didn't really make it easier for me. I thought it felt a little more smurfy than smurfing, as Smurfs say in Smurf language. When is a school's permission denied? That's my question.
i-962b7263c844a818-568	Mr President, I would like to That was a brief and intense question. A school is currently denied permission after the Swedish School Inspectorate has made its various visits. Unannounced visits are made, and the school does not behave according to the criteria that the School Inspectorate, which I think is the best authority to develop these criteria, has developed, you first get a warning and then the permit can smoke. I do not think that I, as a politician, should interfere in small details, but a school that has been mismanaged and under-priested for a number of years should perhaps not continue.
i-962b7263c844a818-571	Mr President, I would like to It's a shame I can't use the time I gave up in my last line, because I realize I kept it very short. My question, of course, was: When do the Swedish Democrats think that a school should not start? Somewhere I think that the problem needs to be understood, and it does not have to be a school with a secular foundation in the sense of religious free school. The Plymouth brothers run Labora School, for example, and it is not classified as a secular school at all. They got no as a secular school, but they got yes as a regular school. We Social Democrats were clear at our Party Congress and said that we should not have secular elements in school in the sense that students are not actually given the opportunity to shape their religious beliefs themselves. That was my question, based on the Smurf: What do the Swedish Democrats think should be a reason to refuse anyone to start? To be honest, it is extremely difficult to go around watching every school and see that they do everything they should do. It is clear that we should have supervision, it is clear that we should have evaluations, but one does not get away from having to think about whether there are factors that make the school actually not start. I therefore repeat my question: When will a school be granted permission? Any other questions I would like to add are: Where does the buffer that every school should have come from? Is it to be built with the help of tax revenue? What is the consequence, then, when we have distributed funds from the principal according to the needs of the students and hopefully with an even better socio-economic distribution? Where does the buffer to be built come from?
i-962b7263c844a818-578	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to Karlsson, Lena Hallengren can Mattias google or Those who are Swedish democrats have already seen it and know what I mean. What parameters should we look at? We can start as follows: At present, when a free school applies for a permit, the municipality has almost no say. They don't stand a chance. What we want to introduce is a special agency at the School Inspectorate where the municipality can appeal. It should be that the free school adds something that does not already exist in the municipality. A free school should not be able to open just to, but to add something educational or offer a direction that does not exist. Then let's go back to the foundation of why free schools should be able to open. It was for that reason. What different parameters may make it necessary to close down if you have obtained a permit? I believe that these parameters already exist today. The school inspectorate is already looking around today. Let us sum it up briefly and say that all the things for which fines are imposed today should be a basis for not actually being allowed to continue the business. Of course you have to get some kind of warning and a chance as principal to arrange it, but I think it's a foundation. As far as buffer is concerned, it is already the case that municipal schools in some municipalities get the right of the school board – called different things in different municipalities, but I think Lena Hallengren understands what I mean – to put away a buffer. For example, if you want to make a big effort to buy in digital screens for all classrooms but can't buy one after another, you often do so that you set aside a buffer from the public student money available today. If free schools want to make a profit, they must first obtain a buffer that is large enough. The alternative is that no buffer is required at all, and I do not believe that the Social Democrats want it either, Mr President. All of a sudden, we may end up in the position of free schools closing down and the municipalities having to take over the children. So this is an alternative solution between the two.
i-962b7263c844a818-584	Mr President, I would like to It can be a big gain to have been a teacher in his previous occupation. But it is certainly not a guarantee to always land right in education policy. Unlike some of my political colleagues, I believe that even without being a teacher, one can have a lot to contribute and to achieve when it comes to Swedish education policy. And it is surprising that one can have so much experience of being a teacher but still not assisting in a series of important reforms presented by the Alliance and the Moderates to increase knowledge at school. Therefore, I would like to ask Stefan Jakobsson among other things: How do the Swedish Democrats view reduced administration? When you have been a teacher, you are quite well aware of the administrative burden. The Alliance has put forward a series of proposals on how to reduce administration. But we do not see any proposals from the Swedish Democrats. If there is something missing and the government does not make proposals, there is an increase in teaching time. In Sweden, children go on average one year less in school than in other comparable countries. It is therefore interesting to hear what Stefan Jakobsson says about more teaching time. From a moderate point of view, we have proposed to spend an hour in primary school every day, which means five hours more a week. Here, too, I would like to know how the Swedish Democrats stand.
i-962b7263c844a818-587	Mr President, I would like to I think we're in agreement, because we've both worked in the profession: Being a good teacher is about being able to be a good teacher. We've done an analysis. No, we may not have had time to co-write everything proposed by the Alliance. Maybe we're not behind some things. Some of us are behind it, but we have different ways of looking at it. As far as the people around us are concerned, we have proposed a great deal of incentive aid until we can take these personnel back, perhaps for government employment. We see the reduction of SYVs, curators, school doctors and school nurses. The entire school health care system is almost on the verge of collapse in some schools. If we can sit down and discuss, I think a large part of the administration could disappear. Our proposals to include, for example, business and associations will also reduce the administrative burden very much. This will give teachers free time. I am not sure, Mr President, that Camilla and I agree on the matter of more hours. I don't think more hours is the solution. Finland is probably 20 places above us in the latest survey, but it is not more hours that make the children better there, but rather fewer hours and more effective lessons. We have a big aber in the Swedish school system, Mr President. It is that it unfortunately takes a very long time to get started with the lessons. There is a great deal of time spent on everything around us. I think the latest figure I read was that 16 minutes out of 40 are devoted to other things than school education in each class. It's a huge loss of time. I am not sure that the solution is to compensate it with a few extra hours, Mr President. But I'm pragmatic. I am prepared to sit down and discuss with all parties, including the Left Party, in order to arrive at a common school policy where the School Commission could remain as a basis to stand on. Now we have a part in it, and we will certainly work with that, all party r. The more we sit down and discuss, the more alternative and good solutions come for teachers and principals. I am absolutely convinced of that.
i-962b7263c844a818-591	Mr President, I would like to No, it is true that there are a number of points on which we definitely do not agree, including the period of teaching. It is clear that less teaching time will hardly lead to better results. Let's see what it looks like around the world. It is de facto the case that Swedish children have one year shorter teaching time and also considerably shorter days. Not least in the part of Asia that Stefan Jakobsson is so happy to refer to, you go to school much longer. Of course, our proposals do not go that far. I get a little wondering and worried about the strange reasoning in the previous line shift with my colleague Lena Hallengren. I didn't quite understand it. I would like Stefan Jakobsson to develop how to actually propose a municipal veto when it comes to the establishment of free schools. Free schools are something that we from the Alliance are very happy that we have. We are pleased that the School Commission states that this is a contribution that has been very important for the development of Swedish schools. We'd like to keep the free schools safe. I am very concerned about where this reform would lead further in the hands of Swedish democrats. Municipal veto we know would have meant that a series of free schools had never been established in this country. That is why I would like clarification. What does that mean most uncertain as Stefan Jakobsson said a moment ago? Is it the case that the free schools will still exist?
i-962b7263c844a818-593	Mr President, I would like to It is good that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall asks about this. We certainly do not want a municipal veto. Free schools have helped many municipalities. For example, Botkyrka, an extremely red municipality. There you are very happy that you have got open free schools, because otherwise you would never have got it together with premises and students at all. The free schools must remain in place. However, if you are going to open a new free school, that is exactly what I have read about permits, supervision and all such things. It is important that we look at the quality of free schools. But it is equally important – and I think we agree there – that we look at the municipal schools. There are many municipal schools that underperform heavily. It's supposed to be a trial right, not a veto right. The big difference with probation is that you have the right to appeal – as a municipality in this case – if you think that the opening of a free school adds nothing. This isn't really weird. We have looked at the letters, Mr President, which were available from 1990 to 1991, when these things were introduced. Then it was about the free schools adding things that the municipal school did not already have. I am absolutely convinced that there are lots of things that the free schools add. Peace and quiet may be one of those things– that's something some free school units really have as a canehorse. There we have had big problems in the Swedish school. So you do not have to worry at all that the Swedish Democrats are going to turn around on the issue of free schools. On the other hand, I think we should look at a trial right. I want to go back to the question of more of the same. If I have a mechanic who doesn't fix my car in a good way, I don't think the solution is that he gets more hours. I think he'll continue to do the same wrong then. What is needed, however, is education. For teachers, we need further training, which is also driven into teacher training, so that we do the right thing from the start. Here we have big problems. I've talked about Singapore, among other things. There you read less time and focus on good lessons. It has also digitised. The children get a completely different help after school with the help of the digital and everything. I will have a press conference in three or four weeks where I present much more suggestions about this.
i-962b7263c844a818-599	Mr President, I would like to The school is the starting point for everyone's way into adulthood and into working life and all the different structures of society, with everything that that entails. Not everyone is as easy to get right into the bottom line. Some do not get it at all and never really get over on the other side, despite several attempts. But it is the responsibility of the school to help and support each student on the way to the goal. The school should work in a compensatory way, so that the teaching is equal and equal and that everyone is given an honest chance. Investing in the youngest is well invested time to ensure good continued development. For a long time, support efforts have come far too late, causing much anxiety and grief for students, guardians and teachers. Taking in lost time and knowledge is not something you do on a tereast. Mr President, I would like to The Education Act says that education should be designed in accordance with fundamental democratic values and human rights, such as the inviolability of human life, the freedom and integrity of the individual, the equal value of all people, equality and solidarity between people. Furthermore, the Education Act says that those working in education should promote human rights and actively combat all forms of abusive treatment and that education should be based on scientific basis and proven experience. The government has therefore invested so that schools in socio-economically vulnerable areas give educators an increased opportunity to see each individual in the group and thus satisfy the needs of supporting students who need a little extra support to move on through comprehensive school. The PISA report points out that the increase in segregation provides an unequal school. The results speak for themselves. This is why the government has also presented a long-term reform programme to strengthen vulnerable areas and counteract segregation. Here it is important to get different actors in society to join forces to achieve a good result and be good role models in the art of collaboration. The work focuses on five parts to break the segregation mechanisms and lift vulnerable areas. It is about preventing crime, breaking long-term unemployment, raising school and pupils' performance, strengthening public services, combating overcrowding, supporting civil society and working for democratic values. It is a long-term work to be done in close cooperation between authorities, municipalities and civil society. My conviction is that students feel safe in schools where the classes are not too large – it applies to all stages – where there are many adults with varying skills and competent teachers but also leisure leaders and where there is a functioning pupil health where relevant support is provided when the need arises. Secure students can devote their energy to their education. They can develop skills such as cooperation and problem solving and see the benefits of their schooling. This is how I want to see all the students get it in our country. Primary school is the way to high school. Upper secondary school is for most people the way to work or further studies. In order to make informed choices, they need good study and career guidance. The Swedish National Agency for Education has been commissioned to train study and career advisors in gender equality, so that students are not restricted in their choice of education and jobs based on gender or social and cultural background. That is one of the issues that the Green Party has been pursuing for a long time. As I said, having a high school degree is, for the vast majority of young people, the door to the labour market. It is therefore of the utmost importance that young people be given the opportunity to make their degree a reality. Here the government has made major efforts that are now starting to produce results in the country. Upper secondary school should cater for all pupils who want to continue and continue to study at universities and colleges but also those who want to invest in upper secondary vocational education. In recent times, upper secondary school has been in focus through the high school inquiry that the government set up and which has now been out for a referral. There are many new proposals here that need to be looked at more closely, and it is important that both research and the profession have their say. For me as an environmentalist, it is incredibly important that everyone who wants to have the opportunity to continue studying at universities and colleges, regardless of which line they have chosen in high school. As in the entire school area, there are pupils who find it difficult to reach the final goal, and for them there must be help and support. Therefore, the government is now investing in collaboration for the best school even at upper secondary level. For some students, the step between upper secondary school and upper secondary school is large, and they have not been able to achieve full eligibility. Then there are a number of options, so-called introduction programs. The introduction programmes are for those who do not qualify for the national programme of upper secondary school. There are five introductory programmes, the aim of which is to prepare students either for national programmes, for the labour market or for some other education, for example at a folk high school. Each student who studies the introduction programs has an individual study plan and reads full-time. The introduction programs give students the opportunity to study on the basis of their individual conditions. Individual alternative and language introduction are not searchable courses. Pupils are admitted through curators, high school coordinators and follow-up managers in the municipality. The content of the two courses is designed jointly by pupils and schools. Giving every student a chance to move forward is the key to the harmonious development of our society and helping students to move on in life to work or further studies. It is important to give our young people different ways to go and that we do not let them get into a vacuum, that they sit at home and do nothing. The school will most likely undergo some changes in the future. What is important and absolutely necessary is that we do not rush forward any decisions, but that we give the time needed to produce sound evidence, many of which have been involved in saying their part, in order to have a change that lasts more than one term of office. The school, the teachers and the students need peace and quiet and not quick throws that twitch and tear the system. Profession and research have pointed out in a Commission of broad political scope what we can do to create equivalence in the allocation of resources between schools and achieve greater equality. We have a comprehensive proposal to strengthen and build an equal school in Sweden again. Representatives of students, teachers and school leaders in Swedish schools support the proposal, which is already being consulted. Now there are high expectations of us school politicians at different levels throughout the country and regardless of political color to reach consensus across party boundaries and turn the School Commission's work into national gatherings around the school. I therefore support the proposals contained in the three reports UbU17, 18 and 19.
i-962b7263c844a818-618	Mr President, I would like to To Elisabet Knutsson's credit, I will say that she talks very warmly about what her own government has achieved over these years, and that would be sad otherwise. But at the same time I have to say that I feel very little in the description that Elisabet Knutsson makes of Swedish school. Then I dare to say that every week I find myself out on study visits and also have good contacts from my professional background. A few of the things I'm thinking about today when I hear you are how your study visits, if you do any, have been and your experiences with introduction programs. When you listen to Elisabet Knutsson today you might think that these are the programs that work absolutely the most amazing. But if we study how they actually work and how they succeed in their mission, we know that language induction is one of the high school programmes with which we have the greatest concern. Does not Elisabet Knutsson see that we would have to make a number of improvements to these programs? If so, what improvements should we make? What tools does the government have in its toolbox to help these students who really need to get on and out in a professional life? They are in danger of being left in lifelong exclusion if they do not end up in upper secondary school. In the introduction programmes we have our absolute greatest concerns today.
i-962b7263c844a818-621	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall! Of course there are problems, and there are problems everywhere. That I wouldn't be out on a study visit to the business, I can dement at once. I'm just like you, teacher. I've been a professional for years. I have many colleagues who I can both greet and bounce ideas and thoughts with. Of course there are problems with the introduction programmes. As I said, there are things everywhere. These are things that we are dealing with, which are being discussed and which are being brought forward. Given the large number of people who have come into our country, it would be amazing if we had solved this without any problems. It is about the success of those who attend the introduction programme and will move on. Gradually and all the time, the business is being built up in a better way. In all the reforms, whether we or you are doing them, there are problems at the beginning.
i-962b7263c844a818-624	Mr President, I would like to Somehow I can feel that it is not good enough to answer that there are problems everywhere. I see that our task as a politician – and not as a teacher in this context – is to ensure that the conditions are set for solving the problems. I do not hear a single concrete proposal from Elisabet Knutsson on how to meet the concerns. It doesn't look any better now than it did a little while ago. We are not talking about the fact that it was the start of the programmes that was the major concern, but about their growing concern. What is the government's proposal to improve the programmes? We have just heard of a fantastic picture from the speaker's chair when Elisabet Knutsson gave her speech on the programmes. But we do not hear anything about what concrete proposals we could have. The next question I have is about the School Commission. I would like an honest answer. When you started your assignment this term of office, did you think it would have happened this little in Swedish school and that there would have been so few reforms from the government you represent? Shouldn't it have happened more? Does not the school commission whose proposal is now being referred put forward very few concrete proposals? It is really a question of setting up a great many new investigations. These are a dozen new investigations, which in practice will have no real impact during this government's term of office. Is it not time to name this what it really is – a rather monumental failure for the government and Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin with the thousand days that you have now had the opportunity to influence Swedish school?
i-962b7263c844a818-629	Mr President, I would like to There is a big difference between doing things and doing it well and doing things and being able to do them over again. What we do now is we investigate, look after, talk to the profession and base our recordings with good basis. What I think when I look back at the alliance government is that many proposals were made all the time – hugely many proposals. But a lot of them had to go back again. The teacher's ID, for example, was probably three times in the Riksdag. They introduced a lot of things that the teachers would do-- write reviews and so on. And now we are talking about the need to remove administrative tasks for teachers. These are the tasks that the Alliance has assigned to the school. Well, I don't think Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin has done a bad job. I think that by talking to the profession and to the trade unions, he has landed the whole thing and has done a good preparatory work to take long-term decisions that last more than one term of office.
i-962b7263c844a818-632	Mr President, I would like to I would like to explain to everyone who listens to the debate that we are currently debating three different reports, all of which are known as School. When we ask for reservations in various reports, it may sound a little special, and it may also raise some questions as to why we are discussing things a little about lots and in different ways. As a center party, of course, I support all our reservations, but for time-winning I only ask for the approval of some of them. It is paragraphs 1 and 6 of the UbU17 report, paragraphs 2 and 7 of the UbU18 report and paragraph 8 of the UbU19 report. Mr President, I would like to I would like to concentrate on a few issues contained in the various reports, starting with the UbU17. The school system as a whole contains an incredible number of different issues. This report is based on motions from the general period of exercise, which means that we may at times feel that the major issues do not fit properly because we have not written motions on them or because perhaps some new proposal has just been put forward. However, with regard to the school system and the first reservation that I supported, it is extremely important that we support democratic values and how they have an impact on their activities. This is why the Alliance has a common reservation about the school's values and the need for principals and teachers to ensure that the education works successfully to promote democratic values and challenge extremist values. We need skills development and the development of tools that can serve as inspiration and support in our work. It is also about the way the school works with civil society, with parents and so on. This was my first reservation, and we have clear proposals from the alliance parties. There is an announcement about gender-disaggregated teaching. It is a bit frustrating when the government parties speak at the beginning of the debate, and then you do not have the opportunity to ask for a reply and take a discussion. Lena Hallengren said that it is an open door that is kicked in and that there really is no need for any change in this regard. However, as we have seen, it is important that this clarification is made in the School Act because there is so much uncertainty about these issues in schools. Another issue that is considered an open door – and I can think that it is good, because if the government parties think it is an open door, there will be a change quite soon – it will be about programming. Programming in school exists and is good but in far too few schools. There are schools that work with this in different ways, but it is incredibly important that we get an impact so that all students get the chance. I discussed with a vice-chancellor of a technology program in Skövde a few years ago why there is so little interest in the technology program. They considered which study and career guidance was given and how it could be linked to programming. The question she sometimes asked was: Are you good at languages? Yes, one student replied. Then you should choose technique, because that includes programming, and it's a language, she said. If you have a sense of language and language skills, programming is a very important way into not least the technology program. Here, the political proposals we are now working on contribute to achieving better gender equality in the various programmes. Lena Hallengren mentioned the Swedish National Agency for Education and the development of digital strategies and IT strategies. We were some from the committee who visited SKL a few weeks ago. Their signal to us then was that the IT strategy that the government is now working on feels old-fashioned right from the start. That is gnawing, I think, and I am thinking about what you need to do so that you also create a strategy that is not too old from the beginning. But maybe it's a different debate from this one. Another issue that has already been in the debate is digital and centrally corrected tests. We were called teachers, some who have been working on the right exams, and of course it is a dear task to correct the central exams. There is a really good way to facilitate the work of teachers. It is a matter of adjusting and evaluating the tests centrally. Digital tests are of course available. They are not sent away as paper samples, but they are also available to teachers and students in the future. I would like to point out that the Center Party in the Committee motion for Category 16 proposed that an additional SEK 16 million be allocated to the area of externally corrected national tests. It's in our budget bill. Mr President, I would like to Let me move on to the next report, UbU18, which deals with teachers and students. This is a day of joy, we have noted in the Committee on Education. It is gratifying that there are a number of motions approved by Parliament's committees, namely those dealing with study and career guidance. There is, on the one hand, a moderate motion, and, on the other hand, a centre-party motion which the whole committee supports, and on which we support the development of a digital study and career guidance platform and the strengthening of the role of study and career guidance officers in school and, on the other hand, greater integration into school activities. It looks very different in different schools; we know that we meet guides and municipal representatives. It is clear that we need to ensure high quality. Not least many of our newly arrived young people have a great need for really good guidance, both to understand what opportunities they have for themselves and to understand how the Swedish education system is built and works. It is therefore a good thing that the government is now being strongly urged by the Riksdag to come back as soon as possible with a solution to this. I now turn to the UbU19, the last report on the school system. It's about overall school issues. Here I would like to raise the issue of remote education, where it has been squeezed into the possibility of having a trial on certain subjects. The Alliance parties and, above all, the Center Party have been very clear that there are many relevant topics where parts of the teaching could be used for remote learning. In order for skills to be available throughout the country – in big cities, small towns and rural areas – this needs to be resolved as soon as possible. We look forward to the investigation that Lena Hallengren mentioned and which will come on 30 May, if I remember correctly, to see how to solve this so that there will be no further proposals for investigations that we will be dealing with. It is an important part of how we gain access to the right teacher with the skills and qualifications needed around Sweden. The Center Party has raised a competence development guarantee. It can be partly likened to what the School Commission highlighted about professional development, professional programmes and so on. Ensuring skills development is a very important part. We need to focus on quality. Let me conclude by saying that in order for it to be a good school in Sweden, this school needs to look different to meet children with different needs. In the previous debate, there was talk of the need for education if one has some form of intellectual disability and that there are ways forward. Another group that has been discussed quite a lot in recent months are special children, who often experience school as extremely difficult because they are not understood. You know, sometimes you're a little prettier and you say that the good kids can do whatever the school is, but that's not the way it is. All children need to be seen from the individuals they are. It is therefore important that we have a good quality in all schools in Sweden. The other day the Free Schools Association celebrated 25 years after the free school reform. It is extremely important to see what the free schools have added to the Swedish school and what the free choice of school adds to all students. It is incredibly important to protect the free choice of schools and that you can choose between different, good schools. This is what we should focus on in different ways in the future work. Lena Hallengren mentioned that there seems to be a fairly large consensus on educational policy issues. I would also like to commend the School Commission, which has a lot of really good proposals. At the same time, we feel a little impatient when ten new investigations are proposed, because we know that the needs are great at the moment. There is good work on change, and we need to point this out and promote it in different ways. We need to base this on research and proven experience and ensure that we have a world-class school. We have the opportunity to do this relatively quickly. There are many examples of this. Another important part, in conclusion, is to focus on a really good quality in teacher education, to open up for independent teacher training so that it becomes competitive and that it becomes a good principal education worthy of the name, so that the school can be led in a good way.
i-8MjQEqWWdNWHSF8jFYVLj3	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3 in UbU17, reservation 21 in Ubu18 and reservation 18 in UbU19. I wanted to start by talking about the first reservation I raised, namely reservation 3 in UbU17. As the chairman of the Education Committee Lena Hallengren explained, the Social Democrats and the government have already announced that the issue of gender-separate teaching will be dealt with soon. That is why this reservation exists, from the point of view of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. The Left Party's reservation is that we believe that it should be clarified in terms of gender-separate teaching in, for example, feminist self-defense, as we have proposed in this House through motions and so on. I mention this in my particular opinion in the report. It's interesting when you talk about gender-disaggregated teaching. The argument from many quarters here is about breaking with the gender stereotype roles and ensuring that you can function in groups regardless of the gender you have and so on. At the same time, we know that this issue has come up with the fact that some free schools with secular elements have recently been brought to the attention of the media. It makes it impossible to separate these questions from each other right now, which is a pity. Gender-disaggregated education has been available in Swedish schools with both municipal and private principals for many years, including when it comes to sex education and sports education. In schools there has been separate teaching for guys when teaching feminist self-defense and a number of other subjects. It is sad that the focus has ended up on this issue in this way, due to some high-profile cases in non-confessional schools. For the Left Party, it is never okay for students to be separated in school for religious reasons. If the School Inspectorate discovers that it is a matter of religious reasons, one should of course get to grips with it. For us, however, it is important to ensure that it is the teachers who know what is needed to give the students the best education. If a teacher thinks it's better to separate the students when you have sex education, at least I'm not of the opinion that you should take that opportunity away from them. I therefore hope that the government, at least in the next step, will take this into account. I intend to move on to report UbU18, which is also a major report. The Left Party has a number of reservations there, but we will only lift reservation 21. I was going to talk to you about the study guide and the native language education. The fact that a student has not yet completely mastered Swedish must not cause him to slip behind in school. Therefore, the right to study guidance is incredibly important. As mentioned earlier from the speaker's chair, we know that it looks very different in different municipalities. If a student with another native language finds it difficult to assimilate teaching, he or she has the right to study guidance. But we must also ensure that this is followed. This means that the Swedish National Agency for Education needs to go out more clearly on how to recruit, among other things, new study supervisors or native speakers. According to the Swedish School Inspectorate's reviews, there were many schools that did not even know the student guidance as a form of support. I have noticed this myself when I have visited certain schools, where in some cases there is talk of mother tongue support. We know that this is not the term used in legislation when it comes to comprehensive school and upper secondary school, but the mother tongue allowance covers the children who attend preschool. Some municipalities are talking about the inability to recruit enough skilled staff, which also shows a narrow view as to who could fit in. With the reception of refugees we have had in recent years, there is a great opportunity, for example, to recruit study supervisors and native speakers in the Arabic language. I also know that the government has already started work and that there are some projects going on around the country to get to this, but of course more is needed. Today's study guidance is largely managed by native speakers, who do not always have the knowledge on the specific subject with which the student needs help, which reduces the quality of study guidance. The mother tongue as a subject has the important task of supporting students in their knowledge development. As everyone knows, good knowledge of the native language is also a tool that makes it easier for you to do better in the future in all subjects at school. I was going to move on to the question of student health, even there with a focus on new arrivals. For those children who come to Sweden on the run from war and oppression, the school is an extremely important place for rooting and being able to establish a working everyday life. The school also plays a central role in the well-being and health of these children. At school, the well-being of students is made visible, and signs of anxiety and stress become evident. Through effective pupil health, trauma and other ill health can be noticed and treated at an early stage. We all know that student health has had certain concerns in general; this is not just the case for new arrivals. It's about resources, access to staff and so on. In this case, the question is whether some students who have come here as refugees should be able to survive at all. Therefore, an up-to-date education in student health is needed to meet the needs of newly arrived students. The government should therefore come back with proposals on how the competence of the student health teams can be strengthened to meet the needs of these students, including in trauma treatment. There, of course, we also come to the issue of general care. But it is important that the school, which is the first to meet these students, signals early. In addition to this, the Left Party has a reservation, which I have raised, which is about pupil democracy and the influence of students. As you know, school and student relationships look in many different ways. Like other social groups, such as students or workers, pupils should therefore have a number of rights. Pupils' right to influence and opportunities to organise themselves is now regulated in Chapter 4 of the School Act. Unfortunately, regulation is outdated and should therefore be updated to provide better support to principals, principals and students in how to work with pupil influence. This should not really be a huge ideological issue for us to deal with in committee, but unfortunately we have not been given a hearing for the policy we have highlighted. One of the problems with the 4th chapter of the school law. is that students' individual rights to influence and student associations' advocacy work are mixed together and equated in legislation. In order for pupils' influence in school to develop, these two concepts must be distinguished. Each student shall have the individual right to exercise influence and influence by organising himself in student organisations, student councils, etc. This is therefore not a responsibility that can be placed on students through student unions, student councils or other student associations. In addition, individual influence should not be confused with pupils' right to join forces to influence. This difference needs to be clarified. At present, students organize themselves in different forms. It is important that the principal and principals do not try to control the student associations and that these associations are seen not as a way of ensuring that students gain influence, but as an independent association that protects the students' interests. However, the different forms of organisation are mixed together in the school law and in practice. This creates problems for students' rights and opportunities to organise freely. We want students' right to decide for themselves which forms of organisation should be used to gain influence to be clarified in the School Act. According to the Swedish Student Unions, 55 per cent of the pupils in upper secondary school attended a school with a student union in 2015. 27 per cent were members of a student corps, and at the schools where student corps were, about half were members of them. In addition, a report from the Swedish Student Unions shows that 75 per cent of the Vice-Chancellors have very high or high confidence in the student unions that exist. Despite this, student corps are not even mentioned in the school law, which is remarkable. This gives a false picture among the principals of the country's high school schools that student corps are not so common or not a legitimate form of organisation, such as student councils, which everyone here has talked about before. The possibility of organising in student corps should therefore also be clarified in the School Act. I shall then turn to the report of the Committee on Education and Training 19, which raised reservation 18, which deals with fees and a free school. This is a crucial issue for many working-class families and single people who cannot afford to pay for what the school should actually provide or for the activities that the school organises in connection with any educational activity. You all know and probably have, unlike me, children who have had comrades who may not have been able to bring such a fine lunch as you have sent with your children to outdoor day. Or you have otherwise seen that there are many children in this country whose parents are unable to pay for their schooling. That is why I think that Parliament's Committee on Education should consider changing the legislation so that the school is really free of charge. It is currently free of charge under the legislation, but at the same time schools can charge certain fees, which they do, including in connection with outdoor days. For this reason, I am in favour of reservation 18. In addition to this, the report and the reservations of the other parties mention the free choice of schools, the active choice of schools and the queue system for independent schools. We in the Left Party are, as we have always been, very clear on this issue. Whether it is about free school elections or free school reform and profits, it is obvious to us that we should not have a system based on better and worse schools, where people in a competitive situation need to choose as soon as possible to find the best school. Instead, we must ensure that an equivalent school system is built, where people do not have to be incited to choose. What is called active school elections should be called compulsory school choices, because that is what it is about: forcing people to choose schools. If you don't, you know you won't be able to go to that better school. On the winnings issue too, I think that Lena Hallengren was very clear about our position earlier, both in the line-up and from the speaker's chair. This is not about putting an end to all free schools. It is about putting an end to the rogue actors in the free school sector, but also to all those who are only there to make money out of our tax resources, our students and our staff. In this way, anyone, I think, should agree with what Lena and I have raised here. All the resources that come to our school should also go to students, teachers and staff.
i-962b7263c844a818-689	Mr President, I would like to In 1492– it is difficult to understand the feeling that Columbus and his associates must have had when they stepped ashore in what would then be called America and discovered animals that they had never seen before, plants that they didn't believe existed, people that they couldn't talk to and ways of living that they as Europeans hadn't experienced before. It must have shaken their lives, and it must also have shaken the lives of all other Europeans. Worse still, a few years later, Copernicus came up with ideas that showed that not everything was as thought: It was not the earth that was in the center, but the sun. Then the scientific revolution started, and it was because one started to think: What else have we missed? If all these years we have missed that the earth is not at the center, what else have we missed, and what else is there to discover? In this way, Mr President, I would like Swedish school to be for every student, so that every student gets the feeling: Wow, there are lots of things that I did not yet know about and that I can discover! There are those who think that the school should be an extension of the student's everyday life and based on the student's own interest. Then it's just good that a guy who knows everything about Barcelona's football team doesn't have to study about the Spanish Civil War. I think the opposite is true. The school should be a way out of the circumstances that you have been born into – a bridge on to another world. You're supposed to have interests that you didn't know you had. You're supposed to have dreams you didn't know you could have, and you're supposed to learn things you didn't think existed. Imagine a guy who lives in a village in Skåne. His life revolves around a moped. He hopes to be the last to be at the kiosk, for then he knows that he will get the mash left over for free when everyone else has shopped. He's thinking about which moped is the best and whether he's gonna buy an A-tractor. No one's telling him he's going to study. No one tells him to read the paper. No one tells him to read a book. No one asks if he's done his homework. No one expects him to go to school, and no one expects him to go to college afterwards. In him, the school should have extremely high expectations and clear knowledge requirements. For him, there should be the most skilled teacher. For a young person growing up in the suburbs and perhaps thinking that crime and membership of a criminal gang is the fastest way to wealth, success and career – a way out of poverty – school should be a place of order, order and law. For him, it is particularly important that the school continues to study. For him, it is particularly important that every small crime committed is actually reported and taken very seriously. For those whose everyday life is chaos, the school should not offer more trouble without order and study. For those who are not met with expectations at home, the school must have as high expectations as it is possible. For every guy and girl who thinks that you have to follow the paths that previous generations have plowed up – that you should follow expectations of how women and men should be and that you should choose the professions that women and men should have – the school will show that you can choose your own path and that you can break gender patterns. For those who have come to Sweden, the school should not be so interested in where you come from and which compartment you should be placed in, but the school should ask the question where you are going and where you want to go: Do you know that you can also go that way? For those who come from a home without books, the school will offer a huge library and a skilled and enthusiastic librarian. For the girl who suffers from honorary culture – you can see her in front of you: she sits in a corner, a little messy, tears on her cheeks and clothes are wrinkled because she has been on the run for a few days, and those who hunt her are the ones who should protect her most, namely her parents, her brothers and her family – the school must be an oasis of freedom. The school should not be an extension of the living room. It's not supposed to be a large recreation centre, it's supposed to be something else. It's supposed to show you a way to something else. That's why we liberals are so passionately in love with school. That's why we're so passionate about the school's main mission being knowledge. That is why we say that school is the most important tool of freedom. Mr President, I would like to That is also why this report proposes more teaching time. More people will learn more. We have too few hours in Swedish school today. The most important thing is that those who come to Sweden get a chance to more hours and thus learn more to catch up. But we also need more hours for everyone else. All other students must be given greater opportunities to learn more. In the international knowledge surveys that are being carried out, Sweden will be at the top. We're supposed to be among the top ten, which is why we need more teaching time. To break old habits, we actively suggest school elections, so that the segregation of homes does not break through as heavily as it does today. That's why we want to develop student health – not so that teachers can solve all the problems, but a teacher should be able to discover the problems that exist and find how to help students get out of them. That's why we say no to gender-disaggregated teaching, gender-disaggregated school buses and everything else of that nature. I am very pleased that the committee is meeting today for an announcement to tighten up the school law on this point. That is why we want the national tests to be increasingly digitised and corrected nationally. Then the school can use the resources you have for more teaching. That is why we propose stronger study and career guidance, because it is then that one can early get support to find a different path from the one one is expected to choose because one is born into a particular circumstance. Mr President, I would like to Not all people can experience the feeling that Columbus and his associates had in 1492, but I wish that every student at some point – yes, actually several times, perhaps every day – had a similar feeling. It's about getting that interest you didn't know you had, getting that knowledge you didn't know existed, getting those dreams you didn't know you could have and getting a feeling in everyday life: Wow, is that world also? That is why, Mr President, I am in favour of reservation 1 in the UbU17, reservation 20 in the UbU18 and reservation 8 in the UbU19.
i-962b7263c844a818-708	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating three reports from the Education Committee, UbU17, UbU18 and UbU19, all of which concern the school system in various respects and thus contain proposals and ideas on how Swedish schools can improve. In the three reports, the Christian Democrats have a total of 14 reservations, alone or together with the other alliance parties in the first place. I have not planned to go through them all but to make some impact on areas and proposals that we KD see as particularly important for improving school, so that Sweden can remain strong and our young people in the long term can be even better equipped for the future. First of all, I would like to emphasise reservation 2 in report 19, which sets out the objective of the Alliance to increase schooling time in the long term. International studies support the connection between increased teaching time and knowledge results, where increased teaching time has been shown to have positive effects on students' results in mathematics in both the lower and the higher grades, for example. Extending the general period of teaching is, of course, a major reform for the Swedish school system, and it is therefore justified to make an extension in several stages, at a rate that the economy allows and which can also be maintained without any deterioration in the quality of teaching. In a first step, the Alliance believes that primary school days should be extended by one hour per day. Linked to this, of course, is also what teachers have the opportunity to do with their working hours. I would therefore like to focus on reservation 2 in the UbU18 report, which concerns the Alliance's proposal to reduce the administration of teachers. Much suggests that a large part of the results of the past decades in the Swedish school can be explained by the fact that the actual teacher-led teaching has decreased. The time for subject education has been pushed aside by more and more tasks that have been assigned to teachers. It is about the increased role of the school as a tutor, about teachers as experts in numerous areas and about an increased administrative burden. This has meant that more and more will be accommodated within the guaranteed period of teaching. In order to increase teacher-led teaching, it is therefore necessary to review and, if necessary, eliminate the various tasks and responsibilities of teachers. But there is also a need for more adults at school who can unload in the classrooms and be in the corridor and in the school yard during breaks, so that teachers can devote themselves more to their core tasks: to prepare lessons, to improve further and to teach. For this reason, we in the Alliance want to introduce teachers' assistants, as a new profession in school. The idea is that teachers' assistants should be able to take over administrative and practical tasks from the teachers. For this reason, we also want to make it easier for civil society actors to contribute to and participate in school activities in terms of increasing safety at school, helping with homework and, in general, just relieving teachers. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to highlight reservation 8 in report 19, which concerns the Alliance's proposal to introduce an active school election. We believe that the public should offer parents and students the opportunity to freely choose the school that suits best or opt out of the school that does not work, whether the reason is the quality of the school, the educational orientation, the teacher's response or something else. A school system that allows freedom of choice and diversity can, under the right conditions, drive quality. But there are also strong arguments for a free choice of school. It is much easier for economically weaker families to choose a school than to buy a home in an area where the good school is located. Pupils' right to choose must therefore be strengthened. We see a need to further develop, simplify, ensure quality and strengthen freedom of choice so that it is made available to more people. To high school, many people are actively choosing schools today, regardless of their socio-economic background. However, when it comes to primary school, it is mainly pupils with well-behaved and well-informed parents who choose actively while those who do not make an active choice are placed in a school in accordance with the principle of proximity. This means that those who do not know about the free choice of school are also not given the opportunity to choose a school. From the Alliance's side, we protect the free choice of schools and the possibility of choosing between different schools. Freedom of choice is a right to be guaranteed to all students. To ensure that all pupils are given the opportunity to use that right, we want an active school election to be introduced in all Swedish municipalities, so that it is simply mandatory to choose. However, for this to be possible, both the information efforts and the possibilities of comparing different schools with each other, based on relevant criteria, must be stepped up. Mr President, I would like to More important than we may have thought historically for children and young people to succeed well in school is that they move regularly. Physically active students not only develop stronger physics and become healthier in general, but also improve memory, concentration and learning, enabling them to perform better in school and to achieve the goals of all subjects. According to the hourly plan, comprehensive school must contain sports education equivalent to approximately one and a half hours a week. However, schools have quite a chance to adjust this both upwards and downwards, which means that the differences today are quite large both between and within municipalities. From the KD's side, we believe that sports education at school must be given greater scope. In a first step, we want the total number of sports hours in primary school to be increased from 500 to 700 while the student's choice is reduced by the same number of hours. The long-term goal should be for students in Swedish schools to have sport with physical activity on the schedule every day. Finally, I would like to focus on reservation 6 in report 17, the meaning of which is that we in the Alliance want to see more programming in school. The background is, of course, that in the future, knowledge of programming will become increasingly important both in the labour market and for our economy and society as a whole. A basic knowledge of programming contributes to an important understanding of how all digital technology is built up and works. It is not least linked to logical thinking and mathematics. We can also be sure that a greater focus on programming in primary school would lead to an increased interest in technology among young people and in the next step get more people to apply for engineering training. That is something that must be done if we are to maintain the country's competitiveness in the future. From the Alliance we therefore mean that we must ensure that all children bring with them both knowledge and skills in programming from the Swedish school. More needs to be done here. Mr President, I would like to As I said at the outset, the Christian Democrats in the three reports have a total of 14 reservations. We are, of course, behind all of these. However, for time to come, we choose to vote in this House only for the following of them: the alliance reservation 6 in report 17, reservation 18 in report 18 and the alliance reservation 8 in report 19.
i-962b7263c844a818-727	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposals to be approved in all three reports. It is important that our children and young people get a good start in life. Then the opportunity to have a good teacher is what can make a difference. One of the first steps taken by the current government was to set up the national collection for the teaching profession, in which the government, together with the parties, discusses the challenges that exist and then makes proposals to make the working environment better and the teaching profession more attractive. We have seen in recent years a number of good proposals that have come from these meetings, proposals that make a difference in the classrooms, for the individual teacher and for the students, of course. These include competence development, teacher training, reduced administration, teacher assistants and the conditions for the school leader. The government also appointed the School Commission, which has just delivered its report. The Commission's mission was to present proposals with three overarching objectives: to raise knowledge outcomes, to improve the quality of teaching and to increase the equivalence of schools. It is a fantastic work done by researchers and by trade union representatives. They have turned and turned all the challenges and jointly agreed in which direction we in Sweden should go. Although they have not agreed on everything, they have agreed on this. Now it's time for a referral. I hope that we can eventually gather around important changes for school – changes that increase equivalence, improve quality and raise knowledge outcomes. We owe it to all children and young people. If other countries can agree on what is important in school, we should be able to do so here in Sweden too, for the sake of the future of all children. The government has invested in and will continue to invest in the schools that have the biggest challenges, because we should only have good schools. The teachers are a key factor in our success. However, at least as important are school leaders, who need time, mandate and support for their mission. They must be allowed to be the educational leaders as they actually are. Others need to be able to take over tasks that a school leader does not need to do. This morning I attended a breakfast meeting at Teach for Sweden – it is one of those other ways into the teaching profession, which is so important. There's a record number of people looking for their program. Not everyone will be able to participate there because they have a rather tough process when it comes to who should participate in their programmes. Then it is important that we do not have systems that exclude those who have another education but who feel that the school is the place they want to work and who have therefore sought one of the alternative ways that exists but did not come along. Then it is up to us to hook in these people, who want something, and make sure they come in through other ways. We have a government that has already done a lot to strengthen the school, the students and the teachers' important missions. Nevertheless, we still have some work to do. I look forward to being a part of that development work.
i-962b7263c844a818-734	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is certainly gratifying that there is a positive tone in the debate on education policy. After decades of falling results in Swedish school there are at last light sparks we can choose to focus on, and we can build Swedish school stronger for the future. Swedish school has continued to face major challenges. If there is no doubt. A point is not a trend, but the results from both PISA and Timss show what hopefully is the beginning of a trend. It is, to say the least, a much-needed and welcome feedback to hard-working teachers and school leaders. Reforms such as career positions, previous grades, competence development for teachers and clear control stations yield results. But what may bring the best results is the clear focus on the school that has come from politicians, the school itself, municipalities and other principals. However, we still have a long way to go before we can be satisfied. Swedish school students still perform under the results that our neighbouring countries deliver. We are still below the historical levels Sweden has previously been on. In other words, the focus remains on re-establishing the school of knowledge. Many problems and challenges need to be addressed by teachers around the classrooms but also at system level by us in this House. First of all, let us note that the ambitions of Swedish schools need to continue to be raised. Swedish school pupils receive hundreds of hours less teaching time than students in other comparable OECD countries. It doesn't make sense. We cannot expect as good results as countries that have more teaching time than Sweden has. Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to hear the voices of other debaters in this House. They believe that with less teaching, more knowledge could be gained and that Swedish school students would be better off if they spent less time with their teachers. If you think it is better for the students' results if they are not there, you show that you have a naive and, to be honest, a somewhat contemptible picture of Swedish school. We need more education, and that requires action and not just fine words, Mr President. In their budget, the Moderates have proposed an hour more per day to begin expanding teaching time. This corresponds to a total cost of SEK 5 billion. This requires significant investments and a significant number of SEK. As far as mathematics is concerned, the Alliance has already begun to expand teaching time. We have a great need to continue doing so to ensure that all students get the basic plate that you need in life. Sport and mobility is another subject where we need to raise our ambitions in Swedish schools to ensure the best possible results. Evidence is now quite clear. With more mobility and more sport, we also ensure that Swedish school pupils not only have a healthier life but also actually better school outcomes, which should be the focus of this House and the debate on education policy. Secondly, study and career guidance, Mr President, is another subject that we are discussing in all the reports we are dealing with today. This is in need of reform and reinforcement. Uncertainty about all the choices you're going to make when you're young is great. Unfortunately, there are also many mischoices. It creates anxiety among students, and it creates costs and stress for society and parents. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education, 21,000 pupils go an extra high school year unnecessarily in Sweden today. For some it is certainly necessary. Some even go on specially designed programs that require more teaching time. But the large amount is about students who have changed or dropped out of their education and are forced to start over. The total cost of this is SEK 2.3 billion. The total social cost of postponing entry into the labour market by at least a year is even greater. I am therefore pleased that we can agree in this House that we should make the necessary efforts to strengthen the skills of career advisers. It is not only necessary to get better results in study guidance but also to ensure that teachers are relieved of the burden so that they have an opportunity to focus on teaching. Mr President, I would like to Let me conclude by saying that in the report that has been submitted and which is now being referred, the School Commission has chosen to support the Alliance's call for active school elections. It is extremely gratifying for Swedish students. Active school selection is a powerful tool for breaking the residential segregation that we see spreading across Sweden. However, the government chooses to put the problem before it rather than act. The proposal is already on the table, and the government parties could already vote in favour of extending these powers and opportunities. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Moderates, but I would like to conclude by calling for reservation No 7 in the UbU17, reservation No 6 in the UbU18 and reservation No 16 in the UbU19.
i-962b7263c844a818-748	Mr President, I would like to My colleague, Mr Jakobsson, has already expressed his support for our reservations, so I shall be content with that. I wanted to talk about school in general and then the reports in order. First of all, I'd like to say that I'm a little wondering. I haven't heard anyone here say we're going to have less time at school. It made me a little confused. I attended the Swedish school in the 60s and 70s. That was before what came to be called the SIA School had an impact. The school then had problems of various kinds, perhaps even some major problems. There were problems with bullying, disorder and some other things. But the school must have been very good compared to school today. After a series of reforms and a lot of political proposals, often implemented with very broad political consensus, the Swedish school has bigger problems than the school I once attended. We have got it black and white in the international investigations we have participated in. It should be said that in recent studies we have turned the curve from a low level, which is in fact both gratifying and hopeful. We politicians often discuss individual proposals, small parts of a whole. We rarely discuss what has really fallen and what has become of real significance. The Swedish Democrats believe that it is ultimately due to a laissez-faire attitude in society that has infected itself at the school. It has had very negative consequences, for example in the case of studies, which are very important. I also believe that the customer system, where pupils and parents are considered customers, has undermined the authority of schools and teachers. A few years ago, we all talked a lot about the authority of teachers and schools. When I was in school, the teacher decided in the classroom and the school principal. Undemocratic? No, just as parents set the framework for eight-year-old Kalle in leisure time, the school and the teachers must be allowed to set the framework for Kalle- or, by the way, for eight-year-old Robert. I definitely needed frames at school when I was eight years old. Studying and the authority of the school are key words if we are to target the Swedish school. This in no way contradicts the fact that there is student democracy and, of course, increased it with increasing age. That's important, too. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the Swedish Democrats have experienced and received too many reports that teachers have not been party-politically neutral in their teaching. During teaching, they have pointed out a party that one should not sympathize with for various different fanciful reasons. Some parties here may need all the support with opinion formation they can get. But it should not and must not be done by current teachers, who teach young and malleable students. The teachers, who should traditionally be liberals, surely believe that they represent the ultimate goodness. So did the politicians of the former GDR. Teachers who cannot follow simple rules of impartiality and comprehensiveness may not be teachers at all. In any case, it should have consequences for teachers who violate impartiality. They should at worst, after warnings, be dismissed. Gender-disaggregated teaching has been highlighted in the media recently. The issue has been raised several times in this House. This was also not a topical issue in the school I attended. I'll admit it was nice to get rid of the girls in gymnasium and play football with tackles sometimes. Now we have a multicultural society, and gender segregation is suddenly a question again. Of course, teachers should sometimes be allowed to divide the class by sex on special occasions – just like when we had to rush off on the football field. But division for religious reasons and division between the sexes on school buses and so on brings to mind the American South in the first half of the last century and the division between blacks and whites. Religious free schools engaged in such things should, by extension, be closed. Serious violations should also be discovered by the School Inspectorate – not by the media, as I think was the last case. Keep it together, School Inspectorate! Mr President, I would like to Today, new arrivals are included in the grade statistics as soon as they receive an approved grade in a subject at school. The disadvantage is that other grades are automatically included in the credit assessment, which gives the individual student a low credit value and the school reduced grade statistics. The school with teachers who work hard and are good is disadvantaged – and of course vice versa. It leads completely wrong, as everyone understands. The schools that have received many new arrivals risk being discredited and end up far down the school ranking. For this reason, we therefore propose that all new arrivals be excluded from the statistics and reported separately. I shall also say something briefly, Mr President, about the preparatory school. There have been discussions in the House before, and it is best to clarify our position. Our purpose with the preparation school is that the new arrivals must be able to take advantage of the teaching, which takes place in Swedish, before they end up in an ordinary class. Putting a student who does not understand the language of an ordinary class seems irrational from my point of view. Should I as a newcomer in Finland be placed in a Finnish-speaking class, I would not understand either teachers or students at first. In addition, our teachers are busy teaching, especially as they are required to meet each student exactly where they are. How much of the teacher's time is spent helping and supporting students who do not understand the language? How much less time do the other students get if it comes new arrivals into the class? How does this affect school results in the long term? Mr President, I would like to I was a political secretary when the government proposed and the parliament decided to offer schooling to those in the country illegally. I was as surprised then as I am now at the decision. The very meaning of laws is that they are supposed to be followed. With a decision on schooling to permitless people, the basic concept of legislation is clouded. Anyone who is refused their asylum application must leave the country, not stay. Both Löfven and Kinberg Batra have said this, and even the Green Party has touched on the idea. One cannot say with credibility on prime time in the TV box that those who are refused should leave the country to offer that group schooling in the next breath. In order to create credibility and consistency: R iv up this strange decision.
i-962b7263c844a818-766	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that the speaker's seat in this House should be used primarily for hair-splitting and discussion of what is actually said or not. However, in view of what the person who was just in the speaker's seat said, Mr President, there is sometimes a need to clarify the position of the Swedish democrats. In a previous change of line during this debate, the Swedish Democrats defended the fact that they do not want to extend the period of education in Sweden and referred to Finland and so that more teaching time is not what Sweden needs. Rather, less teaching time may be needed to achieve good results. Then, Mr President, Robert Stenkvist goes up, and on the contrary, he argues that there is no one here who wants to propose less teaching time or is satisfied with the current teaching period. This contributes to a certain lack of clarity about what the Swedish Democrats really think in the field of education. Education is not a playhouse. Education is no place for populist rapid fluctuations. Education is perhaps the single most important investment we can make to strengthen Sweden in the future. The Alliance and the Moderates are clear. We want to invest more in education. We invest where necessary, and we educate teachers, we develop teachers and we give teachers and principals the powers they need. We also ensure that they are paid for more teaching time to convey more knowledge.
i-962b7263c844a818-772	Mr President, I would like to I also heard Stefan Jakobsson's line change. He said crystal clear that it shouldn't be less teaching time. He said that Finland has less teaching time, but he certainly did not suggest that Sweden should have less teaching time. That's two different things. The Swedish democrats have also proposed increased mathematics and gymnastics education, and this must be known. It is, in fact, an extension of time. I don't know if the Moderates are the right party to talk about fast fluctuations.
i-962b7263c844a818-775	Mr President, I would like to What I'm going to do with Robert Stenkvist's last passus in the line I don't really know. His general view of the Moderates is quite clear, and it will stand for himself. But the fact is that a moderate-led alliance government for eight years carried out perhaps the single largest school reforms the country has seen for a long time. We trained teachers. We carried out the biggest skills development efforts Sweden has seen. We extended the teaching time. We introduced earlier and clearer control stations. We introduced previous rating. We introduced career services. We carried out a number of reforms that, interestingly enough, despite criticism from both Swedish democrats and elsewhere, are still stuck in Sweden after that government period is over. Criticism is one thing, but pursuing some kind of policy in which alternatives are actually being put forward does not seem to be of interest. Mr President, I would like to I am grateful for the reply I received from Robert Stenkvist, although I can continue to note that what seems to be the speciality of the Swedish democrats in education matters is to give a lecture on how things can indeed be in different places in different countries. But to actually deliver any policy that makes a difference to the knowledge results for Swedish students still shines with their absence.
i-962b7263c844a818-779	Mr President, I would like to I'm a little surprised at what was last said. We have put forward a lot of suggestions on how the Swedish school can be made better. Then there may be differences of opinion on our proposals. We have many ideas and many visions, and we have put forward a lot of proposals. I have stood in the speaker's seat and commended a great deal of the proposals and reforms of the previous alliance government. This applies far from everyone, but some reforms were very good and I very much sympathised with them. It wasn't a problem. Some proposals delivered by Björklund were very good, and I have said that a number of times in the speaker's chair.
i-962b7263c844a818-781	Mr President, I would like to You can shrug your shoulders and think that maybe he didn't mean exactly what he said or that it wasn't so bad. But I still want Robert Stenkvist to think a little about his comments about the Swedish teaching staff. Stenkvist claims that he has received several reports on the impartiality of the teaching staff. He now has the opportunity to present these reports for two minutes. It is important that you have good feet if you throw out certain things. I would like to ask Stenkvist a question about the school's values. It says that at school you should work for democracy, everyone's equal rights, individual freedom, equality, solidarity and so on. Is it to be partial to stand up for these values?
i-962b7263c844a818-783	Mr President, I would like to The last question is very easy to answer: No, Christer Nylander, what you listed is absolutely not to be biased. I have no objection to teachers advocating the values you cited. It's okay. I think they should. As for the bias of the teaching staff, I remember the recent case of desperate Swedish-democratic parents calling. It was about a school in Tyresö, where the teacher had spoken about the Swedish Democrats during some social studies lesson. It's happened more times. I can't remember now; I have some list where I have written it down, but I can't explain it any further. If I'd known, I'd have brought the list. But it has happened a few times, and I find it totally unacceptable. I don't think teachers should go out and say anything about any party. This also applies to the Left Party, the Liberals and the Moderates. Pure party politics, teachers should simply stay away from, and that applies to all parties. I suppose it is also a foundation of values, which at least I stand for. I would also be upset if they spoke ill of any other party.
i-962b7263c844a818-786	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important to say that when you stand in the pulpit of the Parliament and speak of a biased faculty so generalizing and sweepingly, you must have something more on your feet than a single case from Tyresö. It is important that the school is not afraid to stand up for important values. That is why we have common values. I also think it is important for the school to tell us about the experiences, history and position of parties. When you tell about the history of the Swedish Democrats, you find that there are several cases that are in conflict with the values that the school should stand for, then it is clear that you also report that story. I think that Stenkvist and also other Swedish democrats are often well generalizing and ripping down a lot on the Swedish teaching staff. It is clear that there are individuals in the Swedish teaching staff who are not doing well, just as there are at all workplaces including this one. But to generalize and claim that the Swedish teaching profession is biased and stands up for individual political positions against the Swedish Democrats, I think that is a generalizing that does not belong here if you can not present better facts than Stenkvist just did.
i-962b7263c844a818-790	Mr President, I would like to Then I'll just have to get right. I mean only the teachers who are guilty of this, no others. I guess I've heard of a six-seven case in the last few years. Of course, six seven cases do not mean the whole faculty. It would be absurd to even think that thought. This is not a criticism of the teaching staff as such, but a criticism of the teachers who are guilty of this. I have heard of six seven cases in recent years, but we have thousands of teachers in Sweden who have not been guilty of this. I should have been clearer, and I'll have to put that on. I should have been clearer about that. When it comes to the history and values of the party, our party representatives Mattias Karlsson and Jimmie Åkesson have made it clear that we have stained our history. It hasn't been a secret. I have read a writing by Mattias, where he gives a very detailed account of what has happened and so on. It is clear that during a history lesson in high school, it would not be wrong for a teacher to treat what is written there. I don't think so. If you look at the General Elections Association – the predecessor of the Moderates – you might find some spots there too, Christer. Then it should be addressed in the same way. The older parties here – the Swedish Democrats are a young party – also have spots on their history. All parties have it. I do not know if the Liberals are the golden exception, but I know that the Sossians have certain spots. The Moderates and the Center Party have it absolutely.
i-962b7263c844a818-793	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by agreeing with Christer Nylander's previous pleas. There's a lot of things I could start by saying, but I think I'm gonna skip it and go straight into what I'm actually going to talk about. I'm going to go a little deeper on here with the school health care. One in ten children has experienced domestic violence. It is somewhere between two and three in each class or at least 150 000 children. I would like to use this expression, rather than witnessing violence, to experience violence, it also means that you can hear or see the traces of it. It is simply known that it occurs at home. There is much research that shows that experiencing violence can be at least as harmful as being directly exposed. Violence between parents is also by far the greatest risk factor for child abuse. Although this is known, the situation of children is far too rarely investigated when a parent has filed a new report of abuse or otherwise has been noticed. The Social Services Act points to the special responsibility of the Social Services Act to provide support and assistance to women who are or have been victims of violence and to be aware that children may need support and help. We Liberals believe that clearer and more stringent directives are needed here. It must be ensured that children are both heard and receive the right support when reporting violence in close relationships, but also that more attention is paid to this in school health care. It is easy to believe that we are more or less vaccinated when it comes to violence against children. We adopted a law at an early stage, and we have been a long way as a country in this regard. A rather high level of attention to violence against children in recent years has contributed to more police reports, but as in the case of sexual abuse, the number of darkness is enormous. The school and childcare facilities have a duty to report, but the knowledge of how to detect violence and abuse is quite low. For example, there are some traces in the neck and behind the ears that can be easily detected in a regular health check– if you know what to look for. Early detection leads to faster deployment of support measures. Another way is simply to ask the question – to ask the children if they have experienced violence, either against themselves or against someone else. According to the School Act, Students' Health is primarily intended to work preventively and health-promotingly. Each student must also be offered at least three health visits. Under them, routinely asking the question is a preventive measure. That is why we Liberals want clear guidelines for school health care to routinely ask questions about violence. When asked about this in school health care, a majority answered that they want specific guidelines because it becomes easier and more natural to raise the issue. There was a concern that the question would otherwise be asked: why are you asking the question? If all students are asked, it doesn't feel very specific to the person who is actually exposed. It may also be that even if you do not answer the question for the first time or even for the second time, at least you get the signal that this is something that we think is wrong and something that should not happen. Another extremely important issue for not only Student health, but the whole of society is suicide prevention. Since the 1980s, the number of suicides has fallen in all age groups, except for those between 15 and 24. Unfortunately, there is an increase – thankfully small but still – in the last decade. In 2014, which is by far the latest year I find figures for, 2,303 young people between 15 and 24 tried to kill themselves in Sweden. Of them, 170 died. There are sometimes also younger children. There are suicide attempts among children so young that they attend preschool. The school has a key role to play here. There are examples such as the Eleven Health Portal in Stockholm County Council, which is aimed at preschools and schools with methods to prevent and capture mental illness, and Yam, which is a health promotion and preventive effort to improve mental health and reduce suicide attempts between the ages of 14 and 16. It is also a matter of paying attention to and being aware of the risk groups that exist. Depression, psychosis, addiction and also the risk of alcohol and other things as well as suicide are more common among LGBTQ people. 25 percent of gay and bisexual women aged 16 - 29 report attempted suicide. This compares with 8% of heterosexual women of the same age. For transgender people, the numbers are even more alarming. Every other trans person has ever considered taking their own life. It is extremely important that school health care and school have the skills and knowledge to meet these particular students. Others who need extra support and assistance and who need special knowledge about are placed children in general and perhaps unaccompanied children in particular. When it came to meeting all the students, we talked about a previous report on the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It's clear. Persons with disabilities should receive an education of exactly the same quality on equal terms as everyone else. During the time that the Liberals, then the People's Party of Liberals, led the Ministry of Education, we pushed through several important reforms for pupils with disabilities. But there is still a great deal to be done. In practice, Swedish schools do not live up to the goals we have set ourselves, nor to the objectives of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. When the school lacks physical accessibility, it does not only affect students who cannot go with their friends and siblings. It also affects parents who do not enter school and, of course, teachers and other staff who cannot apply for a job at school. When play equipment is not available, we exclude children from play and socialization with other children. The place where young people spend much of the day must be accessible to everyone. For students to feel safe, teachers need to feel safe, in many ways, also in their knowledge and skills. I want them to know that they're allowed to do what they're actually trained for. It should not really be very controversial for teachers to teach and grade the subjects for which they have a licence. Nor should it be controversial that school leaders should have knowledge in order to meet all students. School is a place where you form and meet friends for life. A good school and preschool is the best way to create equal opportunities for the future. Therefore, it is important that the person who leads the school has knowledge of how students with, for example, a disability can meet and that it does not automatically mean that special pedagogy measures should be put in place. That requirement exists for teachers, but it does not exist for school leaders. Finally, on the basis of the discussion that took place in previous speeches and, above all, in the turn of the line, I would like to share a hopeful picture of today's young people and the generation that is about to conquer the world. It's about two 10-year-old boys. In their school they talked about democracy and conducted a school election. These boys started their own party, the Folkcenter. They required shorter breaks and longer lessons. It was their entire election program. I know about what you're thinking, maybe it wasn't that smart. We wouldn't have voted for that. But the reason I look positively at the new generation is because they crushed the resistance completely. They won on that election program.
i-Dr7vQ4jwKDuLb8reSVqMrn	Mr President, I would like to The Interparliamentary Union, the IPU, is the world's oldest multilateral organisation. It was founded in 1889 with the aim of working for peace and inter-ethnic cooperation. I would like to take this opportunity to inform the House that Swedish parliamentarians became active in the IPU in 1892. We are therefore turning 125 this year, which will be noticed with various activities during the autumn. Mr President, I would like to At the turn of the year, the organisation had 171 national parliaments as members. The tasks of the IPU include promoting personal contacts between MEPs in all countries and promoting the development of parliamentary institutions. Helping to build up democratic functions and functioning parliaments is an ever-growing part of IPU's activities. The IPU cannot take any decisions that are binding on the Member States or parliaments, but instead has chosen to make concrete proposals and adopt resolutions on the main subjects debated at each assembly. IPU conducts extensive aid activities on issues such as representative democracy, human rights, gender equality and women's participation in politics. It also defends the human rights of parliamentarians and promotes international security and sustainable development. Over the years, the IPU has been approaching the UN and has since 2002 been an observer at the UN General Assembly. Mr President, I would like to The annual report presents the delegation's activities in 2016 and the activities carried out during the year. In 2016, IPU has, among other things, worked to expand global cooperation to combat terrorism, prevent the destruction of cultural heritage sites and increase young people's participation in social, political and economic life. The IPU has also addressed issues relating to the humanitarian situation in Syria, the role of parliaments in serious human rights violations and the importance of women's participation in political processes. During the year, the IPU released a report on sexism against female parliamentarians and has presented several initiatives to promote gender equality reforms in parliaments. In connection with the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women, the IPU also released a major publication to disseminate information about this. Mr President, I would like to The Parliament's IPU delegation consists of five members. The President and two members, from the committees most concerned, are also invited to attend the spring assembly meeting. In 2016, delegation meetings were held on several occasions. The meetings were largely devoted to substantive issues and preparations for the two annual IPU meetings. Another example of activities carried out is the seminar organised in Parliament by the Swedish IPU delegation on 14 September last year. Among others Anders Compass and Inga-Britt-Britt Ahlenius were invited panelists. The theme was the UN's handling of sexual violence in the field and the handling of whistleblowers, and accountability within the world organisation was discussed. The seminar was well attended. About 100 participants came. They were members of parliament, officials from the Riksdag and the Government Office and representatives from invited organisations. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to call for the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to be approved.
i-962b7263c844a818-827	Mr President, I would like to I also support the committee's proposal in the report. I can mention a little more specifically what I think, from my own perspective, has been significant in the year that the report covers. IPU as an organization and what IPU does, Krister Örnfjäder has touched very well. I'll look a little more at what's happened chronologically and from my perspective. I have the privilege of chairing the Fourth Standing Committee of the IPU, the United Nations Committee. The work that I think is important for the IPU today, not least for the committee for which I am responsible, is to have an impact on the UN in the international community. The UN has some problems with its legitimacy in different parts of the world but also difficulties in getting through various proposals, not least binding Security Council resolutions. This is because the UN is an organisation for the governments of countries, because it is governments that represent the countries. Parliaments and people in different countries are not reached. And it's been perceived as a problem. There have been various initiatives to complement the UN in parliamentary terms. But the natural parliamentary complement to the UN is the IPU for several reasons. As late as 25 July 2016, the General Assembly decided in agreement on a resolution dealing with precisely the work to be done with the UN on the one hand and national parliaments and the Interparliamentary Union on the other. A variety of processes, not least the implementation of the Agenda 2030 objectives, require parliamentary involvement from many countries. In Sweden, it works quite naturally through the collaboration that we have between the Riksdag and the Government. But this is not the case in many other countries where conditions are different. The Interparliamentary Union, the IPU, did quite a lot of work to achieve Objective 16, Good Governance, which is about the basic premise that there must be a functioning democracy, a functioning parliamentarism and a functioning decision-making process in order to actually achieve sustainable development in many countries of the world. In addition, the objective also includes the judicial system, which is another basic foundation for the functioning of countries. If this does not work, decisions cannot be made and sustainable development cannot be achieved according to the intentions of the 2030 targets. In early 2016, the IPU, together with the General Assembly, organised a special conference for world parliamentarians in New York on the drugs issue. This issue would be dealt with at the UN General Assembly's special high-level session on drugs later in the spring. It was therefore a question of whether the UN drug conventions should be in the form they are in today's form or not. In fact, a variety of initiatives have been taken from different parts of the world to try to bring about something else. This was a very successful conference. What is pleasing is that it has been mentioned by many as perhaps the best conference of the whole Youth Process. It is gratifying that the IPU was able to make this impression in this context. It has also brought the IPU, also in accordance with the resolution I mentioned earlier, closer to the central processes of the UN and will continue to do so. This has also been addressed within the IPU, for example, in the latter part of spring 2016, during the spring session, when the question of the election of the UN Secretary-General was raised. A new appointment process was then discussed which would be more transparent than the one that has been before and which would also be better linked to the international community in other parts than those that the UN reaches directly, namely also to parliaments and thus to the populations of different countries. It would be a way for the UN to get closer to people and also have a greater impact on its decisions and activities. This probably also affected the UN to some extent, and special greetings were sent from several of the candidates who were then unable to attend this particular session. With regard to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, the IPU has contributed a model resolution for countries that have the kind of parliament that adopts resolutions. This is a very important piece of work. I will also mention the work against terrorism. There, a very extensive effort has been undertaken in 2017 to translate everything that the IPU has dealt with over a number of years in the field of terrorism, including a direct responsibility for Parliament to actually implement UN Security Council binding resolutions in the field of terrorism.
i-962b7263c844a818-840	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the annual report of Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, PA-UfM. It is an organisation originating from the Barcelona process on intercultural dialogue between the Mediterranean countries and on contributing to peace in the Middle East. This has now grown to become a cooperation between governments around the Mediterranean, and that organisation is called the Union for the Mediterranean. The parliaments of the countries of the European Union, as well as the parliaments of the southern countries surrounding the Mediterranean, form part of the PA-UfM parliamentary cooperation organisation, and I chair the Swedish delegation. The work of the Union for the Mediterranean in general, both on the government side and on the parliamentary side, is aimed at increasing North-South cooperation, contributing to increased prosperity, improving the marine environment, increasing intercultural dialogue and understanding, and strengthening democracy and respect for human rights throughout the region. The Union for the Mediterranean is one of the few organisations in the world where both Israel and Palestine are members and can meet. The aim is therefore very legitimate, and there are challenges to be addressed there. Unfortunately, the work of the Parliamentary Assembly is characterised by a great deal of concern. On the government side of the Union for the Mediterranean, there are mandates, executive powers and money to make things happen. Cooperation projects of various kinds are launched and become a workshop. On the other hand, the Parliamentary Assembly has neither any economic muscle to speak of nor any mandate to do anything other than hold meetings and discuss. The work of the Assembly takes place in five specialist committees. They are committees on culture, energy and the environment, the economy, politics and women. The committees shall meet four or five times a year and draw up draft conclusions which shall then be established at the annual session, which shall take place in the spring. The Presidency alternates between North and South each year, and there is a secretariat in Brussels to coordinate it. This year Italy holds the presidency, and last year it was Morocco. The Presidency is hosting the session. The problems that we in the Swedish delegation experience are, among other things, shortcomings in organisation and administration. The preoccupation with meetings is often poor. Some committees work worse than others and hardly had any meetings last year. Some committees work better, such as the Committee on Women's Affairs and the Committee on the Environment and Energy. Israel – The Palestinian issue is of course sensitive and often characterises the debates at the committee meetings that are held, regardless of which issue is on the agenda. This is also the case at the session meetings. We have also noted that Israel and Palestine have shown, in various phases of the organisation's history, a decreasing commitment to attending meetings. I have not noted so many recent meetings between Israel and Palestine. At the session in Morocco last year, where I and Amir Adan attended, there was a great deal else to be desired in terms of substance and decision-making. On the other hand, the meetings themselves were well organized. We had many bilateral meetings that were fruitful, not least with government representatives from Morocco, where we had the opportunity to raise issues of interest to Sweden. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, PA-UfM is an organisation that has a legitimate purpose and is a forum for dialogue between the Mediterranean countries and the rest of the EU that should be developed. We in the Swedish delegation will do our part, both in the committees and at the annual session, to improve the way of working and contribute to the development of the organisation. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the delegation, of course, but also the staff at the Riksdag International Office who helped us last year. It was Anette Nilsson, who has now left RIK, and Petra Sjöström, who has now taken over after her. I support the proposal to add the report to the file.
i-962b7263c844a818-853	Mr President, I would like to Today we are dealing with the UU17 Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean (PA-UfM). It is the National Day Board's report on the activities of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean and the work of the Swedish PA-UfM delegation in 2016. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be included in the report. The Union for the Mediterranean aims to promote peace, democracy and prosperity in the Mediterranean region by strengthening regional cooperation and integration between preferably EU countries and a number of countries in the Middle East and North Africa. Since 2003, the PA-UfM Parliamentary Assembly has been a meeting place for parliamentarians from EU countries and the so-called partner countries Algeria, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, the Palestinian Authority, Syria, Tunisia and Turkey. It is also one of the few forums in the world where the meeting between Israel and large parts of the Arab world takes place. The Assembly includes 280 parliamentarians from the participating countries, from different national parliaments and from the European Parliament. The Presidency of the PA-UfM will be rotated on an annual basis, and this year's meeting will take place next week – on 12 and 13 May – in Rome. The aim is to strengthen peace and stability in the world, not least in the Mediterranean region, by working together on social and cultural issues, but also by creating a forum for meetings between, for example, Israel and the rest of the Arab world. However, this has not happened to the extent that one could have wished. The five standing committees in the Assembly are of great importance because they address issues such as human rights, women's rights, quality of life, energy, the environment and water in addition to the other specific areas of the respective committees. The region of the Middle East and North Africa has been characterised by authoritarian and totalitarian governance. The lack of functioning democratic mechanisms and respect for fundamental human rights is often cited as a reason for the region's underdevelopment, particularly as regards the weak position of women in the field of society. Women in the region are formally and genuinely deprived of many of their rights. Unfortunately, the southern Mediterranean region faces major challenges. In several countries, the democratisation process has not developed as it had hoped since 2011. The situation in Syria is extremely serious and also affects Europe. Mr President, I would like to Migration and asylum issues have been the focus of PA-UfM's activities in 2016. The assembly sessions took place in Morocco last May, and I participated in the political committee. However, no recommendations were adopted in the Political Committee, as consensus could not be reached. The distinctions between the northern and southern member countries of the organisation also became clear. The Union for the Mediterranean provides a good platform for strengthening trust and cooperation between the EU and the partner countries, for the benefit of all parties, through interparliamentary relations. We have taken an ever greater place there, and we will continue to do so. With these words, I would like to thank the Parliament for giving me an account of the work done by PA-UfM.
i-962b7263c844a818-863	Mr President, I would like to We move on to a motion for a resolution from the Committee on Social Affairs which deals with public health issues. There are about 120 different requests for motion in this report, and they concern a wide range of issues which all have in common that they are linked to public health. It is about antibiotic resistance, the impact of animals on health, disease protection and suicide prevention, to name a few of the issues raised. In my speech, I am going to concentrate on a few things that are of great importance to us Christian Democrats. I think that the first point I should make is something that is of great importance to everyone in the committee, and it is the growing health differences that exist in our country. Although we should basically be in a position to reduce health gaps – we have a strong economy and live in a country with good well-being – our health is worse. For many, too, conditions have not improved as much as we might wish they did. For us Christian Democrats, this is so urgent that many of the efforts we have in this particular area are not included in the report, because they are already dealt with because there are funds allocated to them in our budget. This is the subject of our budget, but I would like to take this opportunity to mention some of the initiatives. This is about health throughout life. That is why we have investments in our budget that are about support for children and families, because we know that we have to start from the beginning if we are to be able to provide good conditions for a healthy and long life. Our efforts are about support for parents – support to be a parent – but also about support for children in families where you can no longer live with your parents. It's about student health and every day in school should be able to get in touch with student health and get the help you need. It is also about the latter part of life, where food, in particular, is an area that is important for good well-being and good health. There we also have funds set aside in our budget. Another small but important part, where there is a big difference between us and the government, is that it is important for children to be able to be active and be present on equal terms. There we had introduced a leisure money, which this government decided to abolish. For those who do not know what the extracurricular allowance meant, it was about children in families who depend on subsistence support being given funds in particular to be able to participate in leisure activities. This was money that the child did not need to feel taken from the family's common cash register, which might go to other things. We know that children take on a great responsibility if they live in a family with poor finances. They say they don't want to play football anymore, even though they definitely want to. The fact that the government has removed the leisure money has led to worse conditions. In this report we have a number of requests, and I intend to touch on them as well. One of them is about asthma and allergy. I am one of the lucky ones who do not fear the arrival of the spring, but we know that there are many who at the moment, when the spring is in its full splendor, find it really hard. They find it difficult to breathe and difficult to be as alert and alert as they would like. We know that more and more people are suffering from various asthma and allergy symptoms, and that is why we believe it would be important to introduce a national strategy for asthma and allergy. Since we made sure that this work was started, we know well that there is a strategy with a focus on chronic diseases, where asthma and allergy are included. It is an initiative that is ongoing between 2014 and 2017, but we believe that this is an area where you need to invest even more. I would also like to mention an important area that is addressed in the report, and that is sexual and reproductive health – another part of flowers and bees, so to speak. There we see that some things are done that are good. For example, the exception for abortions previously contained in the regulation governing the register of pyte nt has now been removed. It was removed on 1 October 2016, and this means that now, from a patient safety perspective, one will be able to monitor the effect of, for example, medical abortions. How does this affect reproduction in the future? What are the side effects? It has been a problem for women's health that they have not been able to follow this, and we are very positive that it has now been removed. However, we are sceptical about part of the government's efforts. We know that contraception is important, and the government budget provided funds to make contraceptives free of charge for persons up to 21 years of age. Our alternative is to use these funds instead to reduce the cost of contraception for people up to 24 years old. We know that there are many unwanted pregnancies in the 21 - 24 age group. These often lead to abortion, which could be avoided by avoiding unwanted pregnancies. Mr President, I would like to We are, of course, behind all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 3.
i-962b7263c844a818-879	Mr President, I would like to The absence of a uniform definition of public health demonstrates the breadth and complexity of the issue. It is about a variety of things, such as diet, exercise, work environment, educational level, upbringing and noise. It is clear, however, that public health has evolved in line with our increased welfare. The life expectancy of both women and men is increasing, more diseases are detected on time and can be cured and our tobacco and alcohol consumption is decreasing. This is linked to increased financial resources, increased levels of education, better health care and improved knowledge of how we can promote health and prevent ill health. But at the same time as we get healthier and live longer, we face several health policy challenges. Health policy should be forward-looking, stimulating and inspiring. People themselves have a great responsibility for their health. It's about what you drink and how much; it's about what you eat and how much; it's about whether you smoke and how much you move. All of this can be influenced as an individual, but also as a parent. We know that diet, exercise, alcohol and smoking affect our health. Yet the awareness of the impact of these factors on our health is so different. The programs on healthy food on television, the diets presented and the knowledge that exercise and sport are very important for the body and the psyche to feel better can not have escaped anyone. Yet, there are worrying few who move enough every day. Approximately 50 per cent of Sweden's population moves at least 30 minutes per day, which is the lowest recommendation for physical activity. It is therefore a good thing that we in the Alliance have proposed more sport in school and the right to physical activity in workplaces. Then you can start with something that you can then continue with for the rest of your life. If you start at an early age, you have the habit with you up in your age. As disturbing as lack of exercise is the fact that many people eat far too much and wrong. Parents have a great responsibility to lay a good foundation for their children through the diet they give them. In addition to diet, this responsibility applies to dental care and pleasure in movement and activities. Cardiovascular diseases increase and are among the lifestyle diseases that can be prevented with healthier lifestyles. We can influence and avoid most of these factors ourselves. The single most important measure to improve public health in Sweden is to reduce tobacco consumption. Every year smoking causes 6,500 cancer cases and 4,000 cancer deaths. This means that almost a fifth of all cancer deaths can be related to smoking. Taking responsibility for and influencing one's own health should feel engaging and urgent. Society's responsibility is to provide tools to the individual and conditions to support the individual's responsibility through effective interaction between public, private and civil society actors. Here, maternal health centres, child health centres and school health care are very important actors to help and advise both parents and pupils. Mr President, I would like to Research clearly shows that the basis for good health is laid early in life and that public health and higher education go hand in hand. Several measurements confirm that people with short education have less health than those with longer education. The level of education is also closely linked to the socio-economic situation. Research shows that the risk of mortality among children is approximately 30% higher in socio-economically weak groups than in socio-economically strong groups. Here, too, the risk of depression and anxiety is considerably higher. A good school that gives all students individual skills to acquire knowledge is crucial both in the short and long term for society as a whole. This applies both to growth and prosperity and to better public health. Employment and work are crucial for the same factors. The fact that we can work, support ourselves and make our own priorities and choices is of great importance to how we feel. In these words, Mr President, I support our reservation 2.
i-962b7263c844a818-894	Mr President, I would like to Public health is an area that is incredibly important for several reasons. It is important for our country's citizens to feel good and have a prosperous and good life. The proposals we are debating today and the political decisions we are taking on public health will have repercussions for a long time to come. I will only touch a few of them here today. I would like to start with the issue of suicide prevention and talking about our elderly's mental ill health. It is an issue that is incredibly important, both at individual level and for society as a whole. In Sweden, some 150,000 elderly people suffer from depression. Every tenth person over 65 years of age suffers from anxiety disorder. It is the life situation that old age carries that causes depression in so many — not old age itself. In health care, elderly mental illness is a forgotten group, and care varies between different parts of the country – this despite the fact that depression is more common than dementia among the elderly and leads to many severe consequences. All professions in the health care center see them, but don't really know what to do with them. In elderly care, all professionals who meet older people need to gain increased knowledge about what is mental illness and what can lead to mental illness. Mr President, I would like to In several places in the country, including Norrtälje, a method known as reminiscence, which is also used in dementia care, has been used for preventive purposes. It means that you in a group invite each other to their memories. Participants are given the opportunity to talk about and discuss important events in life. It can be positive and happy memories, but also things that have been difficult should take place. The method has been successful, as there has been good response, high presence and happy faces. People with mental illness – regardless of age and gender, as well as the nature and degree of ill health – must be able to count on access to the right actions at the right time. We Swedish democrats believe that more suicides could be prevented in all age groups with the right efforts and extended them. Preventive work is important. One measure is that suicidal patients in contact with authorities are always given the opportunity to meet staff who are properly trained to deal with the type of risky situations they are in. We believe that county councils should introduce care programmes for suicide prevention. The aim is to provide all staff who meet suicidal patients in their work with sufficient knowledge of how best to work to prevent suicide. If, after all, suicide occurs, it is important to provide support to the survivors. We believe that an investigation should be set up to review what efforts are needed, to meet the needs of the survivors and to support and guide these people. Mr President, I would like to The other area I was going to talk about is hepatitis C. Approximately 2,000 patients with newly detected hepatitis C virus infection are reported annually in Sweden under the Disease Control Act. Some 180 people die as a result of the disease each year, almost as many as die in traffic. Today, hepatitis C is spread mainly among people who inject drugs. There has been a breakthrough in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C in recent years. Since 2014, several new medicines have been authorised, which has resulted in shorter treatment periods, fewer and milder side effects and better treatment results. Successful treatment not only reduces or eliminates the risk of severe liver disease or other diseases, but also ensures that the patient is uninfected. This reduces the risk of infection between mother and child during pregnancy and childbirth, for sexual infection and for infection if injection tools are shared. We can see that there is a great need for knowledge about the issue of hepatitis C and the possibilities offered by new treatments. In order to increase knowledge of hepatitis C, we believe that the government should take action and return to Parliament with a proposal on this. Finally, we support all our reservations. But I only ask for reservation 10.
i-962b7263c844a818-912	Mr President, I would like to The area we are now debating in this House is at the very top of the agenda in most countries. Almost everyone has the challenge of coping with the future financing of welfare. This is to ensure that one of the most important instruments is prevented. It's about chronic diseases. That is often where we end up in the discussion. But we must not forget all the infectious diseases either. In both areas, we risk a rapid increase in the cost of increasing the burden of disease in society. We have had a very boring polarisation in the debate before. It has been said that it depends only on individual factors. It is the individual who is fully responsible for his or her own health, whether it is communicable diseases or chronic diseases. On the other side it has been said that the individual has nothing to do with this. It's just the social factors it depends on. That is where we can achieve stronger public health. These pages have now been met, and I think that is positive in the discussion. We see the need for action at the social level and at the same time action at the individual level. As far as chronic diseases are concerned, we know that there is a great deal that can be prevented. As far as cardiovascular disease is concerned, it is as much as 80%, and as far as cancer is concerned, it is 30%. One of the most important things is to tackle the classical public health factors. It's tobacco, alcohol and exercise. It is also about eating a good diet. But it is also a question of ensuring that the gaps in society are reduced. There, considerable research has been done by sir Michael Marmot. He has been here in Parliament on at least two occasions and had lectures, invited by the Center Party. What he could show in his research, which then became a major WHO report, was that the smaller the gaps in a society, the better the public health of all the groups involved. We were therefore very happy from the Center Party when the government appointed the Public Health Commission to look at what we in Sweden can do to reduce the gaps. Although we are the OECD country with the smallest gaps in health – and we should be proud of this – they are still unacceptable. We were rather critical when the Commission was appointed of not having chosen to address one of the important factors. These are regional differences. We see that today in Sweden public health does not only vary depending on whether people have jobs or not, whether they have a good place to live or not, and what education they have. It also varies with where people live in the country. It is regrettable that the government did not choose to include it in the directives in a situation where we see that Sweden is being split not least regionally. We look forward to the Commission coming forward with its final report shortly. I am absolutely convinced that it will see that one important factor is that we must ensure that more people get into work and not least those who are far from the labour market. I am absolutely convinced that it will focus on the lack of housing and, of course, the differences in the form of education that people have. We will be able to take part in that work and then see what can be done further. Unfortunately, there are concerns that there will not be much of concrete proposals coming from the Commission. But we only know that when the Commission has put forward its proposal. The second part, which we must not forget, concerns infectious diseases. There are several interesting areas in the committee's report. It is about ensuring that we do not have increased problems with antibiotic resistance. It has been an important part in the past when we in the Center Party have discussed the issues in this House. There we see that a number of initiatives have been taken by the government, and we welcome that. A second area is vaccination. V i in committee has received many e-mails on this subject. It is mainly based on the discussions whether we should make vaccination compulsory in Sweden or not. There is nothing to suggest that we go that way. We have a very high vaccination rate in Sweden. There's no law for that. However, more information is needed. It is self-evident to me that you should vaccinate your children. I find it hard to understand the parents who take the risk of not doing so. The second discussion has concerned the introduction of additional vaccination programmes, where a number of proposals have been made. During the time of the alliance government, we introduced an orderly approach to how it should be done in Sweden when we collect new good vaccines. It's an investigation by an authority, and then it becomes a decision by the government. It is as we see it that nothing should be decided in Parliament because we do not have the competence there. I have one more point. It is one of the infectious diseases in which we are now beginning to have the opportunity to eradicate it completely. It's about hepatitis C. There are clear proposals here. It is there very important that the government goes on to develop a strategy for how we can achieve it. Here we have the historic opportunity to eradicate a disease that kills a number of people every year. Then we need to take that opportunity. Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party, but I only ask for the approval of reservation No 9.
i-962b7263c844a818-926	Mr President, I would like to It feels like it's time to equalize the difference in health between Djursholm and Rågsved. That is exactly what public health is about: everyone's right to good health. The Commission on Equal Health will soon make its proposals, which will help to reduce health gaps. We hope that these are rather concrete proposals, because they are long awaited. The health gaps are very large, and it is definitely also a matter of class. There are even some in the former Alliance who have mentioned it, which I am glad to hear. The Public Health Agency's Annual Report Public Health in Sweden 2016 shows different trends. We live longer, and we generally have better health. However, when the population is divided according to the level of education, it is generally the case that those with a short education fall into all types of risks and diseases. It is simply about class and health. It can also be seen that the differences have increased in recent decades. When you look at all the research on inequality and health, it is very clear that income gaps impair people's health. The economic divides simply make people sick in different ranks. Rich and healthy, poor and sick, sounds quite familiar. We need a clearer policy that works according to the principle of income distribution in order to create a more equal society. If we look in the Care Analysis Report Preventing to Bridge? Equality in health care preventive work against unhealthy lifestyles, a very long title, from 2016 it is very clear that we can do so much more specifically in county councils. It is clear that county councils' management of care does not focus on equality, although all county councils think it is very important. We can also see that there are not many specifically earmarked compensations going out to county councils for the prevention work with the aim of reducing health gaps. We can do so much more. In its interim report, the Commission on Equal Health states that it wishes to see a preparation on the need for a Public Health Act. The Left Party welcomes this and believes that it is time for a public health law, which already exists in Norway. We want the conditions to be investigated. Working to reduce health gaps cannot be freely chosen work for county councils. The starting point should be that each municipality and county council should of course be part of that work. Mr President, I would like to Too many kids get hurt. How children are doing says a lot about a country's prosperity. Sweden is a very rich country. We are top in terms of children's health and children's conditions when looking at OECD measurements. But the alarm still goes off. Children's health is largely determined by parents' socio-economic factors. It's about the parents' level of education, and so on. We all know that what you bring from childhood you carry with you as an adult. Children of parents with high income and education are up to 40-45 percent less likely to be hospitalized than children of parents with shorter education. Children of parents who receive financial assistance are particularly affected by health problems, and they are more than twice as likely to die in childhood as other children. These are clear figures. The gaps in the Western world have grown rapidly, and Sweden is one of the countries where the differences have increased most. We know that early intervention means a lot. The Left wants the appropriate authority to develop a proposal for an action plan to reduce health gaps among children and young people. We can no longer hold off on that. Mr President, I would like to Taking your own life will happen. A life disappears, and relatives, friends, and workmates cannot get rid of the sense of needlessness, pain, and guilt.
i-962b7263c844a818-939	In 2015, more than 1,500 people died of suicide in Sweden, which means four suicides a day. Among those who kill themselves are older people with mental health problems but also young people. Each year, 40 to 50 youths take their lives. In Sweden, this group has increased considerably more than in other EU countries. Mental ill-health is extensive among LGBTQ people. Every third trans person has considered taking their own life. We need to have a greater awareness of what constitutes risk factors and which are at risk of suicide. It is possible to rig such a system. Even people who are in contact with care take their lives. In 2014, 106 suicide cases had been in contact with care. 70 percent of these patients were not offered treatment with greater relief and supervision when they asked for help. It makes me cry. This shows a number of shortcomings in the area of suicide in health care, which we need to do something about. Many children and young people lose a parent or sibling by suicide. When someone has taken his own life, it is important that the survivors receive support. It should be mandatory as long as you do not decline. A national support programme for these survivors should therefore be developed because it is so distressing and it is carried with it. Mr President, I would like to There was a time when politicians wanted to intern HIV infected. Jonas Gardell has portrayed this in Dry never tears without gloves. Then HIV meant death in AIDS. We must thank all researchers internationally and nationally for the fact that today there are medicines that make the HIV virus barely measurable in an HIV infected person. It is an extreme success for Sweden and the whole world. Measures to limit the spread of HIV are that more people need to use condoms and that more people need to test themselves. It's the main thing. It is also necessary to reduce the stigmatisation of HIV-positive people and to provide people living with HIV with medical treatment. It is important that the law and the rules of conduct reflect the change that has taken place, but we do not see that now. New knowledge has emerged in the area of HIV, and there is no longer evidence that information obligations have a positive effect. Sweden is also being severely criticised internationally for its legislation, and it is time for us to review it. Another fear is that you are put into a false sense of security: If no one says it is HIV positive, no one is. In an international context, Sweden is high in terms of the number of convictions against HIV-positive people. We believe that the Anti-Contagion Act should be reviewed with a view to removing inappropriate rules of conduct and coercive measures for people living with HIV. Mr President, I would like to My final point concerns vaccinations. The general vaccination programme has good coverage, and most children are currently protected against measles and polio, for example. There is, however, a somewhat perverse discussion, including online, about the benefits of vaccines. It builds up a scepticism against vaccines. It is of social interest that as many people as possible receive vaccines against these childhood diseases, infections and so on. That is why we want to develop an information and targeted effort on the benefits and necessity of the child vaccination programme. Of course, I support all our motions and reservations, but I only support reservation 5.
i-962b7263c844a818-954	Mr President, I would like to As many have said, it is very important that the work for better public health and for reducing inequalities in this area is top priority, both for the sake of individuals and to economicise with the money we have in health care. Working on this issue is a responsibility not only for health care but also for society as a whole. This is evident in our reservation about increased health in older days. We are in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of this reservation. The number of years-rich people in society is increasing. Being able to fend for yourself in the years and not become dependent on others is important. This is where prevention comes in. However, they do not start when you turn 65 or 75 but early in life by trying to prevent young people from starting to smoke and abuse alcohol and so on. So this follows throughout the journey of life. With regard to the oldest generation, it is important that the whole community works because, for example, it is sanded during icy periods of the year, that homes are easily accessible, that there is elevator and that it is good lighting. This generation must also be informed of what to think about. Primary care and pharmacies play an important role here, but also the non-profit organisations. It is about balancing exercises, about the importance of eating regularly, about being involved in a social network and so on. There is a need for a broad approach, and that is why we have been nagging in Parliament that the health of year-rich people should have their own goal. I believe, however, that this objective will be different in the proposals made by the Health Commission, but it is important that the broad approach is highlighted and that the need for public health intervention of this growing generation should not be ignored. So to the divides. I was actually in Michael Marmot's investigation number two, and there we discussed why the gaps have increased so in Sweden. The response we received was: you have been so good at working on the tobacco issue and a number of other issues, but you have only reached the well-educated and well-established. You must try to reach the other groups as well. Then we got into role models and what role models are for young people in different parts of the country. Who do they look up to? Can we find role models that they want to be like in their lifestyles? I believe that we have a great deal to do there, not least in the multicultural society in which we now live. There are other issues to raise. The issue of suicide comes back not only in the case of young people, but also among LGBTQ people and year-long people. In fact, a quarter of registered suicides are committed by people aged 65 and over, but that is certainly not the right figure. For the suicide of years-long people is not recorded. What was responsible for cases where people have stopped eating and drinking or, according to the cause of death statistics, died unspecifiedly from old age? It is gratifying that a group of Gothenburg researchers have begun to delve into this. What is behind these undefined deaths? What could have been done to improve the quality of life for these people? We also have reservations. The obligation to inform is a matter; it has been lifted in the past. Hepatitis C was Anders W Jonsson inside. It is a matter of low-costness when a strategy to eradicate hepatitis C is not adopted in Swedish society. We have the drugs. They cost, yes, but TLV may be able to push the price further if you prescribe them to more infected people. We could eradicate this dangerous disease if we did the right things. The methodology exists – we have the drugs. So this is about clean and simple, I would say.
i-962b7263c844a818-966	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by commenting on the contributions we have heard a little. I will start with Emma Henriksson, who addressed asthma and allergy and the need for a national strategy. If I understood correctly, the government introduced a strategy for the period 2014-2017 and has now commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to develop national guidelines on this. This was not specifically about asthma and allergy, but about chronic diseases. This also means that the committee notes that Emmas's motion has been partially met, and that is not so common. Well, congratulations on that. The Moderates are talking about the importance of reducing tobacco consumption, and I very much welcome that. In the future, we hope to deal with proposals that lead in the direction that you, Amir Adan, raised. When it comes to Anders W Jonsson it is rarely I have felt that I might have been able to use his post straight off. He raised issues that are very similar to those I have included in my speech. It promises well for the future that there are parties with which we agree that it is important that we combat divisions. The Left Party spoke of the obligation to inform. Now the responsibility lies with doctors and the infected, but there is also a follow-up obligation that lies with the Public Health Agency, which received that assignment as late as March this year. Let us hope that what they come up with can form the basis for a further step. Liberals addressed the needs of year-rich people. Of course, I was grateful that you, Barbro Westerholm, also highlighted the need to reduce gaps. It feels like we have a majority in this House on that part. Mr President, I would like to Public health is a very comprehensive concept. How people feel is determined by many different factors. This is also demonstrated by the commitment shown by a number of Members of Parliament to this area. Exercises have been written with various suggestions for a total of 560 pages. That commitment is, of course, very positive. Even more positive is to note that work is under way in the Government Office and in many other sectors of society, such as the National Board of Health, Public Health and the Crime Prevention Council, to push these issues forward. These are work done in many cases on behalf of the current government but in some cases also the previous one. In most cases, the work leads in the direction that the exercisers want. Therefore, it is considered that there is no need for further assignments at this stage. For this reason, a majority in the committee proposes that all motions be rejected. I therefore also call for the motion to be rejected and for the committee's proposal to be approved. Mr President, I would like to If there was an instrument that could measure how the people are feeling and they placed it at the geographical centre of Sweden, Mount Flataklocken in Ånge kommun, it would in all likelihood show that the average public health in the country is very good. But it would not show that there are large groups who do not enjoy this good life at all. Because good public health is very unfairly distributed. Of course, we have relatively small gaps in society in an international perspective, which we also share with the other Nordic countries. What we in Sweden often talk about as the Swedish model is often broadened to be called the Nordic model. These are welfare societies where we pay relatively high taxes but also get a lot back. All children are given access to preschool and school. Medical care is given as needed and nothing else. Here it feels safe to age, and there is an economic safety net that receives during the time we need to rehabilitate us or find a new job if we have had the bad luck of getting sick or unemployed. A general welfare that works also holds a society together. Research reports also clearly show that the communities where the gaps between people are small are the communities where people are at their best – both among those who are at a low economic level and among those at the top. Mr President, I would like to But let us not forget that not everyone is well off, and we must constantly work to change that. For this reason, I believe that what Prime Minister Stefan Löfven stated in his first declaration of government as one of the main aims of the government, that the tangible health gaps should be closed within a generation, in the rear-view mirror will be seen as one of the most important political positions of this parliamentary term. The Commission on Equal Health, set up to start work on this objective, was asked to submit proposals to help reduce health gaps. Their main focus shall be on health differences between women and men and between different socio-economic groups. As far as the latter are concerned, the number of years of life varies widely between different parts of society in all major societies. Here in Stockholm it is usually taken as an example that there is a difference between five years in the estimated age of life between one end of a subway line and the other. The Commission has so far submitted two interim reports and will submit its final report to the Government before the end of May. I look forward to seeing this and to continuing to debate, on the basis of their proposals, how best we are working on the challenge of providing all parts of improved public health throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to If we take a closer look at the content of the report, we can see that the overall objective of public health work is to create conditions in society for good health on equal terms for the whole population. In order to facilitate the follow-up to the overall objective, 11 Objective Areas have been developed. There are a number of motions proposing the introduction of further such target areas. These include the elderly, violence in close relationships and mental health. In addition, there are exercises on disease prevention methods. I can very well sympathise with these urgent proposals, but the ongoing work and the fact that the Commission on Equal Health proposes a reduction in the number of areas is opposed to an increase at this stage. Antibiotic resistance is also addressed, and if you are to rank some health hazards in the world, that issue is very high. At the same time, more and more people are recognising the need for everything to be done to stop development and research new antibiotics. There is extensive work going on here both nationally and internationally. Under the heading "Equal health", different demands are made for investments for special groups. Here too, of course, we can expect proposals from the Commission. Mr President, I would like to Of course, every exercise reflects issues that the exercisers consider important to highlight, but there is no room to comment on all of them individually. But one area I still want to address is how we work to prevent people choosing to take their lives. It is of the utmost importance that we continue to work on the basis of the action programme adopted by a united parliament in 2008. Karin Rågsjö described in a very good way the consequences of a person coming into a situation where he feels compelled to take his own life. I don't need to go into that any further. But, and that's a very important but: We must constantly work on how we ensure that the support is always there when an individual needs it.
i-962b7263c844a818-989	Mr President, I would like to Listeners, viewers and listeners! As you all know, the red-green feminist government is working on welfare policy in the long term. The public health perspective has always been central to the Green Party. The Green Party was formed as a reaction to the 1970s where the awareness of toxins in food spread, not least among families with children. A demand for toys from manufacturers who developed alternatives in wood to the very toxic plastic toys of the time is just one example of how consumers reacted. Alternative grocery stores grew because many did not trust the food provided by the large chains. That is another example. The Green Party was also formed as a response to the danger to public health that nuclear power was then regarded as, and which, unfortunately, it still represents. The forest plantations, and the biologically increasingly impoverished landscape outside our cities, were also a reason why many were looking for a new political force – a party with a vision of a social development that did not pose a threat to health. As we all know in this room: Politics takes time, and social change is usually very slow. It has now been many years since the 1970s and the green wave. Unfortunately, health threats have not diminished since then, although smoking has decreased. Unfortunately, there are new threats to public health all the time. What we call development, for example, still means that new dangerous chemicals are developed on a daily basis. At global level, 23 new chemical substances are added per minute. In fact, you heard correctly: 23 new per minute. Today, more than 50 million known chemical substances exist in the world, of which 6.5 million are claimed to be available for purchase. Of all these chemicals, however, only 100,000 are considered useful, and in that group there are about 500 new ones every year, about ten a week, as we know. Of all these chemical substances, however, only about 50 000 are deliberately used by the authorities, mainly in industry. The data come from the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate. The impact on public health of the proliferation of increasingly complex chemicals, such as cosmetics and pharmaceuticals, on our watercourses is hardly transparent. The treatment plants manage to take care of many substances, but there are substances that completely unaffected pass out into our lakes and streams. Mr President, I would like to Today's report on public health is a motion report, which deals with 120 requests from general exercise periods in 2015 and 2016. For example, there are proposals on the problem of antibiotic resistance, which I think is a very clear example of how bad things can go when we in global society fail to manage substances we create and produce in a controlled and well-thought-out way. My small introduction to chemicals, nuclear power and public health, which could just as well have been about urban planning and public health or the transport sector and public health, was only one way for me to make it clear that public health is an issue which, in practice, concerns all policy areas and almost all the components of our common society. Researchers and public debaters are increasingly talking about how society suffers from growing inequalities between citizens. All political parties, I believe, do not want the exception, want all citizens to have the opportunity to develop their full potential, even if they might put it in different words in their party programmes. But sometimes we seem to forget that the same conditions are not always sufficient for everyone to develop their full potential and contribute to the common. Even the conditions for good health are not equally distributed. The committee recently received an interim report from the Commission on equal health which underlined this very point. Work on improving public health can also be described as work aimed at preventing ill health. It is probably the most profitable thing a society can do. Early efforts to prevent overweight in children, to support good habits such as physical activity, to arouse reading desire and curiosity – i.e. mental health – as well as efforts to reduce the risk of young people starting with alcohol and tobacco use are just a few examples of actions that have high priority for the Green Party and the feminist Red Green Government. But society must not forget that different individuals have different conditions and therefore need different levels and forms of support and action. The commercial market offers many pitfalls throughout life even for those who have got off to a good start. Keeping ill health away is a constant struggle for everyone. Unlike the 1970s, not all display windows and advertising columns are filled with unhealthy attractions. Today, there are also many commercial operators who actually make a lot of money from healthy lures. This is a positive development, which will certainly make it easier for many to maintain good health. Unfortunately, however, the range of sweetened drinks has completely exploded in our stores, and so-called junk food is probably a much larger sector in today's society than it was 45 years ago. The Public Health Agency in the first place, but also health care has as one of its tasks to support us all in our efforts to maintain good health throughout our lives. The government has recently appointed a special investigator for the work of men who expose their loved ones to violence. The background to this mission lies in the strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women. It is an area where there are also major public health benefits to be gained for society as a whole, apart from, of course, the individual suffering that can be avoided by action in this area. The use of antidepressants has increased for many years. Concerns about the future may lie behind this. It is not just a question of young people being well aware today of what a changed climate will mean already in their lifetime, but it is also a matter of many other things. It is a question of insecurity, of uncertainty, of the demands you have on yourself, of the demands of others, of dreams that do not seem to be realised and of the fact that it can simply be difficult to live. It is common for young people to tell about adults who have failed, about promises that have been broken, and about unanswered love and the like that hurt into the soul. Of course, the fact that life is cruel sometimes does not automatically lead to mental illness. On the contrary, it can be strengthening as an experience. But when the pain is eased with antidepressant drugs, with a little bad luck, the journey towards mental illness may have begun. The industry sometimes offers a quick fix, but the price for the individual can be very high. This was just one example of all the risks and pitfalls that life offers. Promoting mental health has become an increasingly important area. The Government has an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council on how this work should be continued. The Public Health Agency, the National Coordinator for Mental Health and the Commission for Equal Health are working together to build up knowledge in this area. The government has also added a lot of new resources in its budgets during these years for the work on mental illness, and more is coming. It is very good that Sweden is now at the forefront of international efforts to improve the management of antibiotics, so that resistance hopefully does not continue to develop at the rate it has done in recent years. It's been very fast. We hope that it will be made clear that animal health and human health are the same, i.e. one health, so that the use of antibiotics is severely tightened up, especially in animal husbandry, in many countries where this is not the case today. Mr President, I would like to Although I do not intend to endorse any of the reservations contained in the report, I would like to say that I think it is very valuable for Members to exercise about hepatitis and tuberculosis, for example, in order to keep the authorities and the government on their toes all the time. These are important issues that are raised. It is about asthma and allergy, about suicide prevention and not least about ANDT issues – smoking, tobacco and so on. These issues need to be constantly highlighted, I think. The government works for a smoke-free Sweden, for a reduced risk use of alcohol and so on. Of course, in a country that has high ambitions in the field of public health, these issues must always have a high priority and be high on the agenda. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
