i-a54ab830bbaaf279-4	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the Commission's work programme, UU4. First of all, I would like to mention that we Social Democrats, together with other parties, have a specific opinion under paragraph 8 and a motivational reservation, No 4, which I support. Mr President, I would like to In these times, the EU has a particular responsibility to act as a strong, disciplined and responsive global player. When the US acts impulsively and via Twitter and when Trump, as the first president since 1995, recognizes Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, there are challenges to deal with. Recognition risks having extremely serious consequences. The peace and reconciliation needed to achieve a two-state solution is seriously threatened. Therefore, the EU must act clearly in order to create the most reasonable form of dialogue so that the parties once again come together to discuss the two-state solution. Russia is committed with its strong support to As ad, which has lengthened the Syria conflict. We all know that. China is trying, through economic power, to be stronger than the United States. Then we need a Europe that acts wisely, rationally and with patience. The world picture has changed, and with a historic grant it is no wonder that changes are taking place. But who would have thought that Brexit would arise? Who would have thought Trump would be president or Mugabe would resign? He probably would have, but he did so relatively quickly once it did. Who would have thought Macron would be president? Or who would have thought that Sweden would knock out Italy in qualifying for the World Cup? These are important issues to deal with here in Parliament, I think. Mr President, I would like to There is ongoing pressure for change around the EU, and that journey is just beginning. Europe needs to be reformed and become a Europe for the people, as the government has repeatedly pointed out. A new social pillar should be created to guide EU countries towards more equality and equality. In this context, the EU will also develop Pesco, permanently structured c ooperation, within the common foreign and security policy. With the EU's increasingly active common foreign policy action, there are good opportunities to make changes in a number of ongoing conflicts, while the EU makes a big difference with humanitarian action in particularly vulnerable areas. The EU contributes to long-term equality and gender equality and to democratic development in the countries where these processes are taking place. Mr President, I would like to It is also good that the Commission intends to propose a strategy for strengthening relations between the EU and Asia, for a renewed partnership with Latin America and the Caribbean and for new forms of relations with India, Iran and Iraq. In the longer term, the Commission intends to present a strategy for EU membership to Serbia and Montenegro with a view to their being the forerunner in the Western Balkans. The latter is important. The countries involved in the FRY war have a common responsibility to strengthen their rapprochement with the EU, while of course the EU should be both ready and advisory in terms of welcoming further steps towards cooperation and community and, finally, in order for some countries to also join. Mr President, I would like to The need for cooperation at appropriate and relevant levels has not diminished. In our view, the social dimension is essential for the functioning of freedom of movement. European cooperation creates prosperity and cohesion between people. For growth and competitiveness to increase while keeping our societies together, social reforms are also needed. On 21 November 2017, the Labour Market Committee held a consultation with the Government on the announced proposal for a European Labour Market Authority. Our hope was that the committee would give the government support to carry out active advocacy work on behalf of Sweden regarding the design of a new authority. We Social Democrats share the government's assessment and support the government's willingness to work actively to participate and influence the design of the new authority. We regret that the committee does not want to see a constructive approach for Sweden to be able to influence fundamental questions about the agency's design and thus protect Swedish interests. Against this background, we believe that the Committee on Foreign Affairs should highlight the importance for Sweden of influencing a proposal for a possible European Labour Market Authority at a much earlier stage. If Sweden is to influence the drafting of such a proposal, we must be active in the process. We can't stand by and watch. Once a proposal is on the table, we will of course take a position on it, but we still want to be involved in shaping it. We also believe that the Committee on Foreign Affairs should state that the new authority in this area should have a clear added value in order for us to be able to endorse it. Mr President, I would like to The Authority's powers should focus on cross-border aspects related to labour market mobility issues. The Authority should not have a mandate to carry out independent checks and inspections or include mandatory cross-border cooperation at operational level between the national authorities of the Member States. The Authority should have no role in interpreting national collective agreements, nor should it take any initiative of its own to propose new legislation in the field of labour market. Mr President, I would like to Furthermore, it should be stressed that there is an urgent need to respect the division of competences between the EU and the national labour market models and social security systems of the Member States. The principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are important. It is also important that funding be provided within the financial framework. There should therefore not be an increase in budgets. Mr President, I would like to The Commission states in its work programme that it intends to propose ways in which the EU can use so-called 'passerelles', or 'passerelles', in certain areas. Every time such an initiative is taken, as stated in the committee's position, it will be necessary for Parliament to give its approval. In its position, the committee also expresses how one should look at the ambition at an overall level that more decisions should be taken by qualified majority rather than by unanimity. Unfortunately, the committee is critical of such an ambition. In our opinion, such a statement goes far too far. Instead, we would like to stress the importance of carefully considering each individual Commission proposal for decisions to be taken by qualified majority rather than by unanimity. This means, of course, that power in key areas is being transferred from the Member States. The EU shall be based on a well-founded division of competences between the Union and the Member States. Such a system involves a regulated distribution of powers and responsibilities in which the EU deals with issues where local, regional and national levels are not sufficient.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-19	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by asking for the approval of reservation 1. Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Commission's work programme. The Swedish Democrats are generally opposed to the work programme as a whole. However, there are positive elements, but they are based on visions and not on realistic, democratic and economic bases. We believe that Sweden should have influence over the decisions concerning Sweden, and we believe that Sweden should actively work for better membership conditions in the EU. Every year, the decision-making rights of the Member States are increasingly left to an EU that lacks transparency and public support. We therefore see the need for the Commission to show greater transparency and sensitivity to the citizens. The Commission should focus on the major issues and not on issues that the Member States are better dealing with themselves. We believe that it is of great importance that the principle of subsidiarity be respected. We see the importance of the Commission's priorities being financially transparent and anchored in the national parliaments, as we have been pointing out for a long time that there have been major shortcomings with unrealistic bases, funding methods and the question of who is actually funding European projects. It is therefore essential that the principle of proportionality is also taken into account. The Commission is embedding an increasing number of socio-economic measures into non-social support projects, which are being used to hide the costs and effects of other policy failures, leading to an increasing number of EU projects losing their legitimacy as real growth-enhancing measures. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are in favour of European cooperation on energy and climate issues. But it is of great importance to safeguard intergovernmentalism and the right of each country to formulate its own energy policy. We believe that security of supply is essential and that it is primarily in the interests of nations to secure their own electricity generation and diversification. We also recognise the importance of reducing imports of energy from politically unstable states. Security of supply is also about making realistic priorities out of the different types of energy. The challenges lie in ensuring national and European energy supply, long-term environmental development and security of supply together with secure financing and global competition. Adding excessive costs to European companies will hamper economic growth and thus reduce resources for research and development. We believe that there should be a balance in the economy and environmental efforts. The Swedish Democrats, on the other hand, are in favour of increased focus on end customers. Our main priorities are therefore a reduction in carbon leakage and a strengthening of European competitiveness. Mr President, I would like to It is the responsibility of each Member State to maintain law and order, to protect national security and to have its own decision-making power over border controls. The new European Public Prosecutor's Office is a clear step towards giving more power to the EU at the expense of the self-determination of the Member States, which we oppose. Increasing the EU's security and defence capabilities will automatically mean shifting more control over defence issues to the Union. We are therefore opposed to developing the operational capacity of the civil protection mechanism, as long as it is not on the Member States themselves. With regard to cybersecurity cooperation, it is worth recalling that, since the EU is only one cooperation and not one state, we cannot, of course, share all our intelligence services with the other Member States. It is quite impossible to completely distinguish the security of the technology systems from the content of databases and codes. Sweden should not participate in security or defence cooperation within the European Union and should not contribute to militarising the EU. Building an EU defence and security structure is building a duplicate function to existing collaborations. Economically and functionally, it is better to invest fully in existing structures than to invest in two parallel collaborations. The EU option is highlighted as partly intergovernmental, but it is only an illusion. European defence can only be supranational in the long run. With regard to defence industrial cooperation, it should be made clearer that this should only be intergovernmental, while individual countries, such as Sweden, must have the opportunity to develop their own industry. A common European defence capability should not be built up at all, although we welcome the defence efforts of different Member States. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats believe that digital EU projects should not be a cost driver for net paying member states and that digital infrastructure projects should be realistically anchored. The Swedish democrats generally take a positive view of digitalisation in the internal market. It helps to ensure that goods, information and transactions can be handled more effectively, that the physical location of businesses no longer plays a role, and that more tasks and new types of solutions can be created. We see a great potential for growth in the digital market but also aggravating circumstances which the Commission should take the utmost account of. We see the need for solutions and cooperation to make economic crime and the new type of digitalised crime more difficult. Although the digital security market has great growth potential, we believe that there should be a balance between accessibility and security. The Commission also mentions proposals on the dissemination of false information. This is something we see as positive, but at the same time we believe that this can be misinterpreted and abused. For example, we see it in a Swedish authority, where a certain type of information in projects can be sifted away as irrelevant. We believe that accurate information is important and that the Commission should take this into account. With regard to the Trade for All strategy, the Swedish Democrats are cautiously in favour of the Union's future trade agreements, with emphasis on the final nature of the agreement and the impact of the agreement on Swedish industry, the environment and labour law. The Swedish Democrats generally welcome free and open trade in goods and services. The creation of global trade agreements is generally desirable. At the same time, it is important in each case to relate to the content of trade agreements and how they affect the Swedish and European markets. We believe that other interests than purely economic ones should be taken into account in trade policy, such as animal science, corporate social responsibility and environmental aspects. We believe that Sweden and the EU, within the framework of the WTO, the World Trade Organization, should work towards open and free trade and to counter protectionism. We also see the importance of a new trade agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-38	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that I support our specific opinion and support our reservation of reasons. As Mr Niemi said, we live in a troubled world. I stood in this Chamber yesterday and debated the aid budget. Then I noticed that democracy is going backwards: in more than 60 countries laws have been adopted in this direction since 2010. We see wars and conflicts spreading. We have a serious situation. I would therefore like to begin by saying something about the very establishment of the European Union. It started with the wars that ravaged the continent. More than 12 million Europeans lost their lives only in World War II. The suffering, with extermination camps in the middle of Europe, was unimaginable. In order for something like this never to happen again, the former enemies – France, then West Germany and the Netherlands – began economic cooperation, gradually tying them together. Today, we can look back at a more than 70-year period that has been much more peaceful than before the Second World War here in Europe. Today's developed European Union consists of 28 Member States which have advanced cooperation and common political positions in a number of areas. On the international stage, the EU has become a progressive force to be reckoned with, not least in terms of human rights, gender equality and climate. It has been a remarkable journey, although there have been some bumps along the way. The EU is basically a peace and cooperation project, an idea for meeting common challenges together. As such, we have reason to pay tribute to Europe, although we have not always seen it that way. There are no lack of challenges. Today, when we debate the Commission's proposed work programme 2018, it is worth highlighting some basic principles. For the Green Party, the EU is an important player in promoting a progressive policy in which individual states are not sufficient. On the cross-border issues that are at the heart of our ideology – the common environment, peace, international solidarity and respect for human rights – we know that cooperation is absolutely necessary. We have seen how Europe can become a force for actually tackling complex international challenges when we choose to join forces. In my own experience, I can see what has happened in the fisheries policy. There we have gone from being small countries that decide for themselves to actually see our seas in a common context. However, with reference to the work programme, I would like to say that I would have preferred to have seen a focus on the shortcomings that exist instead of revising everything. We also see that the EU is a major force for ambitious environmental and climate policy, for humane refugee policy and human rights, for free movement across the Union's borders and for fair world trade. But Europe is not without problems – far from it. The democratic deficit is a problem. Many people have the feeling that Brussels is far away: it does not concern me, and they are in charge. The EU should not be driven towards more centralisation and develop into a European federation. While there are challenges that require common EU solutions, there are many issues that the EU today decides on that might be better addressed at national, regional or local level. Future talks on the EU should focus on how deeper democracy is possible. Mr President, I would like to The Green Party is very pleased that the Commission is presenting a work programme with specific initiatives. It facilitates the priority given to EU work by the Member States and contributes to the transparency of the Commission's priorities. It is also of great importance that the Commission thinks and plans ahead. It lays the foundations for the debate on the future of the European Union. I hope that we can have a vital EU debate in Sweden, where we feel involved and not disconnected. As far as the work programme is concerned, I would like to highlight a few points. It's very extensive. But the things I most look forward to working with are, of course, the circular economy, the future energy policy and the climate package. It is, of course, also the common migration policy. I and the Green Party are very positive that it is a priority and will be decided next year. But it's late. Over 6,000 people died in the Mediterranean in 2016. The Green Party has consistently worked towards legal paths to Europe. We want them to be introduced as soon as possible. More people should not have to die in seeking protection from war and persecution. I also see that the action plan for the transition to a circular economy must be a success. The linear way of thinking that we can use things and don't take care of them has to end. Material and energy flows must stay within planetary limits and spin around the system rather than be consumed and put on high. A functioning circular economy must be based on the fact that we have non-toxic, bio-based and resource-efficient cycles. In order to achieve this, better coordination of waste, chemicals and product legislation is needed. I also look forward to finally having a European initiative on plastic. It's a big problem. Like people moving across borders, our packaging and other things also move across borders. This must be able to be taken care of and get back into the system. And where it does not need to be used, it should not be used. As far as the climate area is concerned, I am a little concerned that it is only mentioned once in the whole action programme. It is a time when we see that climate change is here. They create more and more conflicts around the world. There is daily information in the media about natural disasters, monsoon rains and other things. Then it feels like we really need to get together. It will be urgent to establish the EU's global leadership and to keep the flag high in international climate negotiations, as in the implementation of the Paris Agreement. Both within and outside the EU, Sweden will be the leader. When it comes to the geopolitical and security policy area, it can be seen that it also goes into the energy sector. We are very much in favour of the Commission proposing that we introduce common rules on gas pipelines admitted to the EU market and that the Commission negotiate with Russia on Nord Stream 2. I hope that work will be speeded up so that we can quickly get a position. There were some of the things I wanted to talk about here. I look forward to working on this.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-55	Mr President, I would like to It is good that we have this debate on the European Commission's work programme. I think it is all too rarely that we debate European issues in this House. EU issues govern Swedish politics incredibly much. More than half of the decisions we make here come from the European Union in one way or the other. I also think that such a debate could be a good opportunity to reflect a little on whether it has become as promised with the EU: Is the European Union delivering? I am thinking of a number of challenges that we have had and that we still have. The first challenge is the economic and financial crisis, which Europe has been through and which it is in fact still in. How did the EU act in that case? Yes, banks were saved. But you didn't save people, you didn't save countries. We can see that mass unemployment has become entrenched in the European Union. The EU advocates a austerity policy that might work well in Germany. But it certainly does not work well in southern Europe. These countries are stuck in economic and monetary union in the euro area and cannot pursue their own economic policy. It is also a Union that allows and, I would say, sometimes actually imposes social dumping. We see it in Sweden. We have Latvians, Poles and Bulgarians doing the same work as Swedish workers. But you do it under completely different conditions. We have a Europe that prevents Member States from imposing demands on collective agreements, for example. The free movement of capital and labour is superior to national measures, such as collective agreements. The refugee crisis is the second major challenge. Is the EU delivering there? No, I don't think so. Instead of being an open port to the people fleeing war and oppression, the EU is building new walls. It concludes totally shameless agreements with Turkey and Libya with the obvious aim of keeping people away from Europe's borders. Yes, in this way people are forced into the hands of unscrupulous traffickers. People are forced to take the most dangerous routes across the Mediterranean. Emma Nohrén mentioned that last year there were 6 000 people who lost their lives on the Mediterranean. It is not even possible to redistribute the more than 100 000 people between the EU Member States, as has been decided. The climate crisis is the third major challenge I would like to raise. As Emma Nohrén said, the climate issue is almost completely absent from the Commission's work programme. When the EU is in Paris and is going to be involved in the Paris Agreement, the EU speaks with one voice. A country like Sweden cannot have a more progressive climate policy at international environmental and climate conferences. Recently, there was a new decision on the so-called burden-sharing between the EU Member States, which is unfortunately being watered down. Climate aid is provided to developing countries that are financed by regular aid. So it is not new, additional funds that are used. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the I do not think this will hold. When I look at the European Commission's proposed work programme for 2018, I do not see any direct improvements. Unfortunately, I see that the EU is clearly moving towards more of a state and less of cooperation between countries. The European Commission proposes to abandon the principle that a country can have a veto in incredibly important decisions. We want to move on to majority voting as the main principle. The aim is to set up a joint finance minister. You want a common defence. We have the EU's defence headquarters – it has already been set up. There are proposals for a European monetary union. Recently, a joint prosecutor's office was decided. All of this is a step in the wrong direction. These are steps towards an EU state. We are debating the Commission's draft work programme. It is good that we have that debate. However, Mr President, what can we really influence in that work programme? It would be interesting to know whether there is any Member State that has ever succeeded in influencing the Commission's work programme, despite all these long debates and all the proposals and input. I do not know any such specific example. Having said that, I would nevertheless like to emphasise that I believe that it matters what the government in particular does in this important situation. Now the European Commission and the President of the Commission, Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker, have shown the cards, not least in the speech earlier this year on the state of the Union. It has been shown that it wants to build an EU state. Then it is incredibly important that Sweden as a country puts its heels down and says that this is a development that we do not want. That is why it will be interesting to listen to Minister Linde later today and hear how the government has responded to the EU's proposal on, for example, a common finance minister, to skip the countries' opportunity to veto, on the establishment of a common EU defence, on a monetary union and so on. It is time for the government to acknowledge the color of these crucial future issues. Otherwise, we will be sitting there with the EU state, which I believe very many of Sweden's citizens do not want. I believe that the majority want cooperation but not a state. Mr President, I would like to I support all the reservations expressed by the Left Party in this report. I would particularly like to call for the approval of reservation 10, where we are opposed to the development of the European Union towards a common European defence.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-68	Mr President, I would like to I, too, look forward to the EU Minister's speech later. I am also excited about what she will say and what Sweden's line in its position will be. We are now considering the Commission's work programme for 2018. The Commission sets out the policy priorities for the coming year – some with initiatives to be presented before the 2019 EU elections and some with more forward-looking proposals. Liberals welcome the presentation by the Commission of a clear work programme with specific initiatives. We are also in favour of maintaining the Commission's focus on the ten priorities previously set. It is to be welcomed that the Commission's priority is to translate already promised proposals into action. The committee also believes that the EU must fulfil its obligations in the areas it has undertaken and where there is clear European added value. Unfortunately, this gives me and the Liberals the opportunity to point out once again that, if you agree with this statement, as the committee does, it is particularly sad that Sweden has chosen to opt out of the cooperation on a European Public Prosecutor's Office that we have discussed a number of times. Here the Liberals have left a reservation on reasons under paragraph 6 to which I hereby propose. The Commission announces a number of proposals to complete the Security Union. In the longer term, the Commission would like to present a proposal to possibly extend the tasks of the new European Public Prosecutor's Office to the fight against terrorism. This issue is perhaps one of those to which the Union today attaches the greatest importance. It is also an issue on which all parties in the Riksdag put a great deal of effort. It is therefore completely incomprehensible to me, and indeed on the verge of unforgivable, that Sweden has chosen to remain outside this important cooperation. I hope that the government will take seriously its commitment to follow up the issue and possibly come back with a new position. Mr President, I would like to Europe is facing a choice: should we stand strong together and solve our common problems, or should we build walls and cooperate less? For us Liberals, the answer is self-evident. In a world in which Trump opposes free trade, where Putin rattles arms and where China grows as an economic power, a large and strong European Union is needed. There is also a need for a large and strong Sweden. Sweden should be part of the EU's inner core, safeguarding the EU's fundamental values and safeguarding freedom of movement. We are going to lead the way for a deeper internal market and push for global free trade, so that jobs increase and Europe's competitiveness increases. Only together with other EU countries can we find solutions to cross-border problems such as the environment and climate, migration, terror and security. These issues are important areas in the Commission's work programme to which we, as Europeans, attach great importance. The EU wants to increase its ambitions in the field of climate change and tighten emission requirements, which we believe is the right way to go. We welcome the fact that the process of a common refugee policy is progressing, albeit slowly, and believe that solidarity and shared responsibility between EU countries are key to success and integration. The EU also needs to increase its ambitions in the social field. The economic crisis has left its mark. Not everyone calls themselves winners in this new Europe. Poverty, unemployment and lack of faith in the future are today reality for many Europeans. The absence of a social safety net for people across Europe has become increasingly evident in recent years, not least through all the people sitting on our streets begging. The prosperity-creating market economy must be combined with a minimum social standard in each Member State if the EU is to be a success at all levels. The EU should be a union of the people. Liberals have therefore said yes earlier this year to the so-called social pillar, which means that EU cooperation develops with fundamental demands for social rights. The fact that each country has a basic social safety net for its citizens is a prerequisite for free movement. The fact that countries such as Romania and Bulgaria are failing their citizens not only creates human suffering but is also a crucial problem for European cooperation as a whole. Freedom of movement must be safeguarded, and this requires basic social security in each country. The EU should not act as a social service for countries that ignore giving their citizens social security – that is not what I am saying. On the contrary, the EU must require each individual Member State to guarantee good living conditions for its citizens. The social pillar now provides the European Commission with a tool to push Member States to implement social reforms that are then followed up and evaluated. It should be visible how the Member States live up to the agreed standard – or if they do not. Nor does the proposal mean that Romania and Sweden should have the same social security system or support measures for the unemployed. It is about the EU supporting and pushing each country to maintain a certain minimum level. People should not have to beg in the streets of foreign countries to support their children. The person who loses the job should have a reasonable unemployment fund. All new parents should have the right to be at home with their child. And women should have the same opportunities as men in the EU labour market. The fact that the Liberals support a social dimension does not mean that we give carte blanche to the government and LO. We will critically examine every proposal put forward to realise the intentions of the pillar. Mr President, I would like to The EU is at a crossroads. We in Sweden need to decide which direction is ours and which company is ours. In one direction the nationalists from Poland and Hungary, as well as the Swedish Democrats, go. It is the path of discontent, edged by divisions and national slogans about our own country first and foremost. In the other direction, we are joined by Merkel Germany, Macron's France and many others who are raising the voice of a stronger Europe. That is where we go, who want to move forward, improve cooperation and build a strong and democratic Europe – a Europe for the people, for peace and for a successful future.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-88	Mr President, I would like to I can agree with a lot of what Tina Acketoft said. I would also like, in many respects – but not in all – to see such a Europe as Tina Acketoft talked about. Unfortunately, however, it is now quite a long way between theory and practice, and I think it is important for the EU to be judged on its own merits. I would like to ask Tina Acketoft two questions. One is what Tina Acketoft said about the EU not building walls against the outside world. I certainly agree, but is that not exactly what the European Union is doing in refugee policy? It now makes it virtually impossible for asylum seekers to enter the Union unless they take the most dangerous possible smuggling routes into Europe into the hands of unscrupulous refugee smugglers. Is it not building walls as the EU does when it cooperates with a country like Turkey, which is becoming increasingly repressive every day? Today, our President, Jonas S jöstedt, and our foreign policy spokesperson, Yasmine Posio Nilsson – that is why she is not here today – in Ankara, Turkey, to be involved in the trial being conducted against one of the two Presidents of the opposition party HDP. Their crime is that they have objected to Erdo中an. The EU is concluding agreements with a country like Libya, and we know what is going on in the assembly camps. It's terrible. Tina Acketoft also said that the EU promises higher levels of ambition in climate policy. Where in the Commission's work programme are proposals for higher levels of ambition in climate policy? At least I haven't found it.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-94	Mr President, I would like to It seems that Jens Holm and I also agree on asylum policy. I think our behavior is shameful. Liberals have always been clear about this. Even before the influx of refugees came in 2015, we were clear that a common asylum policy is needed in the EU. People need to be evenly distributed across the EU. They must, of course, have the right to come here. I say to Jens Holm that we also agree on this issue, just as we sit on the European Council and each time point out Turkey's weaknesses in terms of democracy and human rights. We in Sweden must guard human rights at all times. I can only say to Jens Holm that we agree that there is a need for a common asylum policy and that there is a need for more legal, safe ways in. The number of quota refugees needs to increase, and they must have a decent standard of living when they come here.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-97	Mr President, I would like to I had a question about higher levels of ambition in climate policy, which I would really like to see. Where is the Commission's proposed work programme promised higher ambitions in climate policy? With regard to the agreement with Turkey, I would like to know the following. The next time we in the Left Party propose that the shameless agreement be demolished, will the Liberals vote with us?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-99	Mr President, I would like to Forgive me on the issue of environmental ambitions. I missed that question. It is quite right that environmental ambitions are not included in the Commission's work programme. But Europe must be a strong voice in this. They have to be there. I look forward to what the Government will respond to the question of how Sweden intends to ensure that the EU becomes a strong voice on environmental issues. As far as the dissolution of the Turkey agreement is concerned, it is extremely important that we follow events closely. I do not take a negative view of the fact that we will come to a time when we need to see other solutions.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-102	Mr President, I would like to When we are debating the Commission's work programme for 2018, it is good that the Commission has been out in good time to present a programme where there are proposals that we across the EU Member States have the opportunity to debate and then take a stand for or against. The title of the Work Programme, an agenda for a more united, stronger and more democratic Europe, reflects very well, Mr President, the era we find ourselves in today and the issues with which we are struggling. Before I go further, I would like to ask the Parliament to approve the motion for a decision in the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and to add it to the record. In its annual work programme, the Commission sets out its policy priorities for the coming year. This time the work programme consists of two parts. Some consist of initiatives to be presented before May 2018 for consideration by the Council and the European Parliament before the European Parliament elections in 2019. Another part of the work programme is more forward-looking until 2025. Some proposals have an even later time horizon. The Commission's work programme focuses on ten priorities which the Commission has developed for its term of office. It is positive that the Commission is narrowing down and wanting to do what it is supposed to do. It is positive that it is not too much and too extensive. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has invited the parliamentary committees to give their opinion on the work programme. Seven committees have delivered opinions. My party colleague Christian Holm Barenfeld, a member of the Committee on Employment, will address the position and questions of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, which is why I will not touch on them. Mr President, I would like to The Commission's work programme is comprehensive, although it is limited, so it cannot be done to debate the whole programme. I am going to make some downfalls and stick to the horizontal issues. We Moderates see the value of Sweden's membership of the EU. That is precisely why we are also concerned that cooperation should continue and be relevant to the time we are in. As Europe now faces major challenges, it is important that the EU is also able to prioritise, that it is capable of evolving to remain relevant, just as it has been during the journey. Emma Nohrén of the Green Party began her speech by talking about why the EU was founded. I think it is important to be involved in the back of the head that the European Union was founded to bring about peace. The EU was founded because countries that do not cooperate are warring. This was in the wake of World War II. Countries that cooperate are also developing their economies. This is something that the European Union has also done. We see this as important and positive benefits. As the EU developed, the Treaty of Lisbon came into being. The Treaty of Lisbon gave national parliaments greater influence. It was an important step forward. The EU continues to show its momentum and is an attractive Union for many countries to participate in. Since the 2008 financial crisis, the EU's work has been increasingly characterised by crisis management. Discussions on the EU's priorities, objectives and structures, as well as agreements on the necessary structural reforms to meet common challenges, have ended up in the back water. There is a strong desire to hold Europe together. At the same time, it is difficult to reach agreement on key issues. There are many conflicts within the Union: the future relationship with the UK, Russia's management, financial austerity policy, increased federalism in relation to commitments in national decision-making rights, management of the migration crisis, budgetary constraint within the EU, influence of non-euro countries in decisions taken by euro area countries but affecting the whole of the EU, free trade, free movement of people within the Union. These are some of the conflict areas that exist. Then, of course, there is the ongoing challenge of the EU's fundamental values and of the actions of many of the EU's Member States. Nevertheless, it is not a way forward to leave the EU. The EU has been and continues to be a positive force for its Member States. The EU is likely to be involved in internal activities and the external border in the coming years. In the coming years, there will be consequences for the EU budget when the UK leaves the EU. It will be felt in the economy, and at worst there will be less economic growth in the EU. Mr President, I would like to The EU's most important task at this time is to safeguard what the Member States have jointly achieved and to use as a basis all the opportunities and tools that already exist today to meet today's political challenges. In other words, this means continuing with the current approach but with a better focus on the issues that are most important for Europe's prosperity and growth. We Moderates want to see the development, efficiency and improvement of intergovernmental and supranational EU cooperation in areas where there is clear added value in cross-border cooperation. We do not want increased or more federal structures. Work on the necessary structural reforms within the EU must continue. Many of the policy priorities set out in the Commission's 2018 Work Programme are good and address areas that require cooperation and cross-border solutions. These include continuing work towards a better internal market and more trade with the outside world, the challenge of migration, a common energy market, ambitious environmental policy, a stronger common foreign policy and a strong fight against international crime. When European cooperation prioritises these issues, i.e. issues that cannot be resolved nationally, the EU creates real added value for the Member States and their citizens. At the same time, it is important that the EU is not given tasks that the Member States best manage themselves. The so-called subsidiarity principle, which establishes the balance between the EU and its Member States, forms the basis for Moderates' view of European cooperation. It also means that Europe can and does need less bureaucracy, not more, and fewer new institutions. The institutions that are being created must be very relevant. The Commission's work programme also consists of a series of concrete initiatives to achieve the priorities set. This year, as I mentioned, the Commission has chosen to divide the initiatives into different time horizons. I would like to mention here what is happening in the light of the fact that, following its referendum, the United Kingdom has chosen to leave the Union. There are negotiations going on. It is a difficult time in the UK, as well as in several EU countries, for what will come in the future? All proposals were presented in March to June this year with the aim of creating a debate in the Member States on the future of cooperation in general but also in a wide range of areas of work. A lot of these proposals can be found in the Commission's work programme. It is remarkable that, in parallel with its initial discussion on the direction to be taken by EU cooperation, the Commission has included these proposals in its work programme for next year. Problems that are best dealt with at national level should not be dealt with by the European Union, Mr President. EU cooperation should focus on those areas that bring real added value to Europe's population. We Moderates care for national competence in areas such as labour market, family law and taxation. I would like to mention an issue which I think is important but which nobody has touched on here. It is about research, Mr President. Within the EU, there is an explicit work on research – advanced research. This has led to increased knowledge that is taking Europe forward. The fact that there is now also a discussion in the Commission's programme on cooperation in defence research, we see moderates as positive, because that means that the research and skills that no Member State can maintain at its own national level can be created together. This, Mr President, I think very well illustrates what cooperation within the EU is about: achieving added value and moving forward in a way that benefits the Member States.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-124	Mr President, I would like to I think what Margareta Cederfelt said last time about the research was good. It is an incredibly important field that is quite often forgotten in politics. It is a pity that research is not mentioned at all in the Commission's work programme, at least not what I can tell you. But that is not what I would like to ask, but I would like to ask you two questions. One is that Margareta Cederfelt points out that we have now received the draft work programme with some good anticipation. That is good – then we can have this debate before the end of the year and not, as it has been before, when the year has already begun. I think we in Parliament have been ambitious. As Margareta Cederfelt said, seven committees have written opinions, and everyone has been involved in this matter. But the question is: Is the Commission listening to the Swedish Parliament? Is the Commission listening to what other parliaments are recording for concrete proposals? I've been trying to find out. I have not found a single concrete example where the Commission has even changed a syllable in its work programme after a Parliament has put forward concrete proposals. Does Margareta Cederfelt have such examples? That would be interesting to know. On the second issue, I agree with Margareta Cederfelt that the EU should not develop into a federal structure. But there are a number of proposals in the work programme which, I would say, go the federal way. This concerns, for example, the proposal to set up an EU Finance Minister. Here I would like to know what the Moderates' position is. Do you want a Minister for European Finance?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-129	Mr President, I would like to It is certainly a good thing that we are debating the Commission's work programme. That is something we must do as Member States. It is also important to have the cooperation that exists in the COSAC meetings for the EU Boards in the respective Member States. I believe that it is important not only for national work but also for cross-border cooperation within the EU. The issues are important and, of course, we as elected representatives must debate them. Then it is as if Sweden is not alone in debating this. That is why I think it is important that we talk to our fellow parties in other countries. I also look forward to the government returning to us when the Commission's proposal is presented in more detail. The second question was a tax issue. We believe it is important, for example, that the tax issue be resolved at national level. That is not something that should lie within the European Union. Sweden is also outside monetary union, and it is important that this is taken into account when it comes to the economy, how it should look and how it should be managed. We are not members of the euro as it looks at the moment, but we Moderates believe in cooperation. We believe that this is extremely urgent. That is also the picture I wanted to give in my speech: we are in the European Union, and as a nation we shall stand up for the fundamental values of the European Union. It's the only way forward.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-134	Mr President, I would like to My specific question was about the proposal for the creation of a finance minister, not tax policy. Margareta Cederfelt will be happy to answer that. Do the Moderates think that the proposal for the establishment of an EU Finance Minister is a good one? I think this is a relevant issue because the Moderates were one of the parties that wanted to bring Sweden into economic and monetary union. Now the Swedish people wanted something completely different, which I think is good. But, of course, an EU finance minister is quite logical when you have a common monetary and interest rate policy and a broadly common economic policy. It is logical, then, that we also have a common finance minister. I think it is important that Sweden clearly states that the EU should not have a finance minister. Feel free to answer that. The reason I asked the question whether the Commission is listening to the Member States is because I think it quite clearly illustrates the lack of democracy in the European Union. The European Commission is the only body in the EU that can put forward proposals for new laws. The European Commission is not a elected body but a largely closed body. The Commissioners sitting there do not represent the Member States, but only serve the interests of the EU. I believe that this is contrary to a fundamental principle, namely that it is the elected representatives who should be able to initiate new laws. It is the elected representatives who should be able to influence the direction of politics. It does not work in the European Union, and it does not work in this work programme in particular. I think it is important to have this said – although I think the debate itself is important.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-139	Mr President, I would like to We Moderates support the opinion that we have given in the Committee on Finance and which is also included in the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We are not behind a finance minister there. As I mentioned, fiscal policy is national, but we also see the importance of working together, for example when it comes to the conditions of small businesses and being able to facilitate entrepreneurship, because this is something that is needed for Europe to grow, for the people of Europe to have it better, for more jobs and so on.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-141	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. It is a statement we are dealing with here today, and it is a little special when it is added to the file. It is an opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Commission's work programme 2018. The work programme is part of the Commission's entire mandate priorities. This is not something entirely new, but a continuation of priority areas. As I heard in the debate, this is the first time we have tried to discuss the work programme in plenary before the new year has taken place. In the past, we have been part of the year when we have discussed the work programme. It feels a bit like the yeast after the dough, but this time we have tried to make it better. Mr President, I would like to This is a programme for a more united, stronger and democratic Europe, as the Commission puts it. We welcome this ambition. However, it is a work programme that is currently heavily influenced by both Brexit and political developments in Germany, where we are all waiting to see the outcome of the current government negotiations. If Brexit becomes a reality – I would like to emphasise – we must, of course, respect the decisions of the British and act accordingly, but we must also realise that everything is certainly not said in the UK about this yet. There may be new issues that affect, so we need to be prepared for that. It is important that we in Sweden and the European Union are able to assert the values on which the European Union has been built. The Union must stand up for freedom, security – that was the very foundation – human rights, democracy and the rule of law among the Member States. Here we have major challenges that will be important for the credibility of the whole of Europe. The EU as a democratic project, a united or stronger project, is influenced by what each Member State does and how it responds. Of course, we look forward to seeing how the EU is able to respond to developments in Poland. The ambition it has had to try to bring forward a process must be taken further if Poland does not back off. Otherwise, the picture will be that the European Commission is saying one thing while the reality is different. Then we lose the ability and the power to stand up for what has been the common values of the Union. Of course, this is central. As far as Germany is concerned and developments there, we have all waited and waited to see the German-French joint position, if any. Of course, it can also have a major impact on how the programme is taken forward. With this reservation, I would like to emphasise the importance of the EU being able to capture Agenda 2030, in terms of global development, because the EU is an important player in the delivery of this mission. The EU is also a key and vital player in the Paris agenda. We look forward to what is signaling, namely that in the near future a basis will be provided for discussing the EU in 2030. This is important in the climate area to ensure that the commitments made are met. We also look forward to the negotiations to be conducted on the Energy Union, not least with regard to Nord Stream 2, where we from the Swedish side have had many views on the fact that they have been too slow. There is not only an energy policy perspective, but also a security policy perspective on the issue of energy that needs to be taken into account when discussing the Energy Union. Mr President, I would like to One of the areas that has been relevant here and which is reflected in the reservation text has been the question of what the EU is really going to do and what it is, so to speak, important for the EU to engage in and take on new tasks around. It is about the area of jobs and employment, which is a fundamental issue for us to work together on. The EU's internal market is about creating opportunities for more jobs, more employment and better prosperity. In particular, the part in this area dealing with the Digital Single Market is important to move forward with. However, we have not thought it important for the EU to have a labour market authority. This is clear from the opinion, which we share the view expressed by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. That is also the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I just wanted to touch this. Finally, I would like to raise the specific issues of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and it is the European Union as a stronger global player, in which we in the Center Party would like to see the European Union play a stronger role. The global strategy is, of course, the basis for this development. It is about being able to manage at the same time to develop an attractive Europe that is still open to the outside world and which appears to be a strong engine of global development. Then we can be a strong soft voice for global success in 2030 and for peace, freedom and development. One of the soft areas that is central to the EU is trade. The Center Party welcomes the ongoing work to develop new trade agreements. One would like us not to have separate trade agreements but to have a common market in which we do not need to act in this way. Now, however, it is important for the EU to stand up and move forward with trade agreements in the same way that we have done with Canada and that such processes are being pushed forward. When protectionism gains new supporters in the world, there must be voices standing up for free trade. We welcome agreements with Mercosur, Mexico and so on to demonstrate in this way that it is trade that is an important engine of success and prosperity and of taking people out of poverty and building inclusive growth. It is also important to manage the multilateral profile. This is done, among other things, through trade. The fact that the EU is an actor in the multilateral environment is important. It is also peace-promoting. I've touched the soft power. We only discussed yesterday Pesco, which means that we should also have the opportunity to use the entire palette and also be able to act militarily if it is necessary to assert peace and development. It is an exciting period of development in the coming years with the Commission. I cannot leave the Eastern Partnership. It is a real issue for the credibility and attractiveness of the EU as a whole as a global player. Having a membership perspective there is central. Mr President, I would like to I apologise for exceeding the time allocated to me. The EU should not build walls either externally or internally when it comes to migration. We're going to work for legal and not dangerous ways in. Europe is an ageing continent. We need people, and we need mobility to be a Union of freedom, mobility and development. Once again, I support the committee's opinion.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-163	Mr President, I would like to Kerstin Lundgren made one point that I forgot to mention in my speech, namely trade policy. It was good that she brought it up. Trade is extremely important. But, as the EU's trade policy stands today, trade becomes a top objective, and other interests prevail. I am thinking, for example, of the investment clauses included in the trade agreements concluded by the EU. As an aside, I can mention that it is not really trade agreements that the EU is concluding, but trade and investment agreements. As regards, for example, the NAFTA agreement, this investment clause has been used many times. Sometimes measures have been taken against fracturing. Then you've gone on a corporate record. Measures have been taken to build a large oil pipeline, as Obama did. Then they were sued for billions of dollars by an oil company. When, for environmental reasons, Romania rejected the opening of a new gold mine, it was sued by the company Gabriel Resources with reference to just such an investment clause. Kerstin Lundgren, you represent a party that claims to stand up for the environment. Do you not think in the Center Party that there is a risk that environmental policy can be made more difficult when you have trade and investment agreements that give companies all the rights to sue but that give those who stand up for the environment and the climate only obligations?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-167	Mr President, I would like to Trade is, as I said, very important. What the EU has shown, not least through the agreement with Canada, is how trade agreements can be taken forward in order to take account of labour, climate and other considerations. I think there are development opportunities to work on. We discussed issues relating to Africa in the Committee on Foreign Affairs as late as this morning. Of course there are many challenges. But it is not a way to have an uncontracted permit. What we are hearing is that many people then perceive that the possibility of making investments will only be for those who, so to speak, can settle with the President and thus perhaps get a special sour cream. But we need solutions that make you dare to invest – that it is orderly and that there are agreements that make it possible to dare to invest also in environments where otherwise you might not. We therefore think it is a good thing that we have mechanisms that can cope with this type of conflict, because conflicts are emerging. The idea is that we should then have rules on how to resolve these conflicts. It should not be through a deal between a president and an individual entrepreneur.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-170	Mr President, I would like to Kerstin Lundgren mentioned earlier the Mercosur Agreement. The draft text of the agreement does not contain an investment clause. It is more of a pure trade agreement. This is the EU's readiness to sign. This agreement obviously does not require investor protection, although it is an agreement with Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay and so on. Kerstin Lundgren says that it must be clear what happens when conflicts arise, because conflicts arise. Yes, of course it is. With regard, for example, to the EU and Canada, there are still two constitutional states that we are talking about with quite functioning legal systems. If there is a problem with something, you have to go to a public court. The problem with the CETA agreement, Kerstin Lundgren, is that you set up a special investor tribunal where only the companies can sue states. The states can't sue the corporations. Companies can sue states when they consider that their investments are threatened in some way, i.e. on far more vague grounds than would be justified in a public court. Traditionally, when there is so-called investment protection in other agreements, such as the NAFTA agreement, it is used by large fossil companies to sue countries that legislate for the environment. Canada is the country in the world that has been sued by the most corporations. In almost all lawsuits, it has been US companies that have sued Canada because they want to stop fracturing, because they want to limit oil extraction, demand for mining and so on. Kerstin Lundgren, shouldn't the Center Party as an environmental party be a little worried about this? Shouldn't the Center Party be able to say, like the Left Party, that trade is great, but that we shouldn't have any special investor protection in the agreements that are concluded?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-176	Mr President, I would like to We are prepared to say yes to trade – absolutely. It is something that is central and important for the EU, for the Center Party and for Sweden. That is the prerequisite for the development of prosperity. Of course, we want to see sustainable trade in the long term globally. Some of these agreements can, of course, be discussed. But then it is good when the EU goes in and for this kind of discussion, because it will then have the opportunity to add new perspectives and make modern agreements. There are examples of historic agreements that are not good. It would like to see these discussions taken forward. This is usually also possible from an EU perspective, as the EU is a stronger and bigger voice. It is one of the voices that stands up for free trade. The EU wants agreements. The fact that other countries and groups of countries go to the EU and try to reach agreement solutions is a basis for the development of this type of clause, too, which is discussed and which should be developed in some parts.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-178	Mr President, I would like to I think we are having a very important debate now. It's about a break time after Brexit. The discussion is now very much about where we are going. My concern is that the EU is now moving from national self-determination to a more federalist direction. I and my party have a great deal of concern about this. The European Commission's work programme also talks about more decisions to be taken by qualified majority rather than by unanimity. It's a direction that can worry. The Commission's work programme for 2018 has already been adopted by the Commission. What we can now discuss is how to deal with the Commission's work programme in the coming year. The theme sounds good; the title is An agenda for a more united, stronger and more democratic Europe. The programme has some priorities and legislative measures that are close in time, in 2018, and some that deal with proposals on the longer term, for 2025 and beyond. It is a good objective of the Commission to bring all countries together, to try to unite the countries more, to make the citizens feel safe and secure in a troubled world and to work for better jobs that contribute to social development. Questions about defence policy cooperation, what is called Pesco, we have agreed to – but with continued sovereignty for Sweden to be able to make its own defence and security policy decisions. We see a need to develop our defence capabilities jointly and for an increased exchange within the EU in this area. However, several EU countries are now talking more about a common defence, which we do not support. It is good that the government has the same opinion on this issue. As far as migration is concerned, developments in recent years have shown that the EU needs to have a better regulatory framework for greater solidarity and to create the capacity to address the migration challenge in the future. There cannot be a few countries, including Sweden, that take responsibility for the large flow of refugees. Instead, we want to see more legal ways to enter, for example through labour migration, but also the opportunity for people to seek emergency visas outside the EU instead of having to come here on dangerous routes across the Mediterranean. There must be a change within the European Union so that we jointly resolve the issue. In the EU, major discussions are currently taking place between the Heads of State or Government, and it seems difficult to move forward. However, the EU has solved difficult issues in the past, and I believe that everyone has a need to find a solution. I hope we get there. We Christian Democrats want the EU to promote mobility and economic development that creates opportunities for growth and social development. The idea of intra-EU trade is precisely to create the conditions for social development in relation to growth. A well-functioning monetary union, which is mentioned in the programme, is also good for Sweden. However, the problem is that many of the other countries do not manage their public economies, which means that they cannot afford social development either. The problem will then be that several countries in the EU – France, Greece, Italy and others – have now started to talk about wanting a bigger EU budget to support poor EU countries. When we were visiting Greece recently, the country's Minister for European Affairs spoke about his desire for European unemployment insurance, but he did not talk about who should pay this. In the European Parliament, the Social Democrats recently voted in favour of a proposal to introduce a form of minimum level of social assistance and that there should be an EU fund to fund this. Does this mean that the Social Democrats now want social issues to be dealt with supranationally by the EU? Sweden as one of the few net contributors to the EU must act. The government must raise its tone seriously vis-à-vis the EU. The EU cannot become a social office for countries that do not manage their economies. We Christian Democrats are opposed to what is now happening and which is confirmed in the work programme, namely that they want a more federal state where decisions in the field of social security are to be taken in Brussels and not in Sweden. We also see that the social pillar and the great summit hosted by President Jean-Claude and Prime Minister Löfven in Gothenburg on 17 November of this year can have major and serious consequences. In addition to paying 50 million for the meeting, we risk a number of binding legislative proposals coming into the wake of the social pillar. The Prime Minister said there were no decisions but only a framework, but the framework should be filled with content. It is a question of European legislation which, for example, means that each country must have a quota of four months' parental insurance. Does Minister Ann Linde, who is taking part in today's debate, think that this is the right way to go? In fact, we recently received the Commission's proposal for four months' quota on the table of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. Do we think that the EU should or should not make such decisions? I think this is the wrong way to go. The Commission also wants a labour market authority. The President of the Commission proposes that there should be social security numbers for all EU citizens to work. We say no to this. We do not want Europe to intervene in our labour market model, and I am pleased that the majority in the committee share the same view. Mr President, I would like to The European summit on the social pillar risks being a milestone we will look back on as the opportunity for Europe to get lost towards more supranationality and greater detailed governance. Our Prime Minister's enthusiasm for this summit is, in my view, incomprehensible as the social pillar risks breaking the partner model of the Swedish labour market. The government is taking a course in which labour market measures, wage issues, child care, care of family members, unemployment insurance, parental insurance and health care are becoming more and more EU policies with legislation now coming from the European Commission. The EU proposes the right to leave for the care of family members, an individual right of five days per year. There will be costs for entrepreneurs and for the state. What does the government say about that? Do we have any impact assessments on these proposals? No, I'm afraid not. We Christian Democrats are strong supporters of the European Union. We believe that Sweden's citizens want to contribute to a better future for the whole of Europe and all its citizens. We also believe that we can show solidarity with those living in poverty and exclusion, and I am convinced that both the Commission and the citizens of Europe also want to move in that direction. But what we are seeing now – talk of a common finance minister, a European prosecutor's office, a common labour market authority and all that I have been into – cannot be interpreted in any other way than that we are going in a federal direction. That, Mr President, seems to me to be quite the wrong way to go. The risk now is that it will not be a united Europe, as the Commission wishes, but vice versa. The parties that have previously been strongly EU-critical, such as the Left Party and the Green Party, now seem to swallow the EU's changed line with wool and hair. They want more supranationality in the social field. The risk is even that the Swedish labour market model risks being lost, in favour of minimum wages set at EU level. That is something that is included as a point in the social pillar. We do not believe that this is the way forward to hand over such important areas as wage formation to the European Union, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a government that clearly says no to increased supranationality at EU level and that ensures that we in the EU work with the right things, such as addressing climate and migration challenges, combating terrorism and international crime, and contributing to increased trade and economic development that makes the EU competitive in a global economy. Unfortunately, the government is in the wrong direction at the moment. A new government is therefore urgently needed. We Christian Democrats have no reservations in the statement, which indicates that the Christian Democrats are behind it and that there is a majority behind the criticism of the Commission's work programme that I have put forward. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-198	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important to come up with a remedy based on what Mrs Pethrus said. Mrs Pethrus said that the Left Party and the Green Party have now swallowed the whole package and that we accept that the European Union should acquire competence in the social field, including as regards minimum wages. That's not true at all. What we in the Left Party want is to stop the social dumping that is now taking place in Europe, where workers from different countries stand side by side but have different wages, conditions and rights. For example, there are no requirements for collective agreements or such rights; it has been dismissed in a number of judgments of the European Court of Justice. The EU places the free movement of capital and services above respect for the laws and agreements of the host country. It would be appropriate if the Christian Democrats, like us in the Left Party, thought it a good principle that companies coming to other countries, such as Sweden, should respect Swedish laws and agreements on the labour market and that it should be regulated in a social protocol, so that they have the same legal status as the other so-called four freedoms in the internal market. This would be achieved through a social protocol. That is the really effective way to tackle social dumping. However, I note that the Christian Democrats have dismissed it every time we have proposed it.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-202	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the Left Party swallows the social pillar and its contents with wool and hair is, of course, because one point in the social pillar is the talk of minimum wages. By that, I mean, we have already started to give Europe an okay to start talking about minimum wages. But we in Sweden have a completely different way of working and a completely different wage model. I believe that by saying yes to the social pillar, the Left Party has also said yes to the fact that minimum wages will now be discussed at European level, and that is quite the wrong way to go in my view. You want to see a labour market authority and have unfortunately voted in favour of it in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. Quotation of parental insurance was also good for you and you agreed to it in the Committee on Employment. You have said yes to five days' leave for the care of family members without any impact assessment of what it means for companies and the Swedish state. I think this is going in the wrong direction. As far as social dumping is concerned, we agree that we do not want it. I can sometimes be surprised when I read in the media that Romanian wages apply in Sweden. I think even Jens Holm can say that that is not actually meant. The Posting of Workers Directive and the implementing directive that has now been said must be implemented, saying that we must ensure that we do not go below the lowest wages that exist in Sweden. One big problem has been that Buildings has not reported to the Swedish Work Environment Authority what the lowest collective agreement is, which means that we have not got a good regulation there either. No one's dumping wages. EU legislation states that wages must not be dumped under the lowest collective agreement in Swedish wage formation. That is the case, so do not say that the Christian Democrats are in favour of wage dumping, for we are totally against that!
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-208	Mr President, I would like to If Mrs Pethrus thinks that we in the Left Party think it is good that, for once, the EU is talking about something other than free competition, market conditions and so on, I can say that yes, that is the case. It is good that we have had a social summit. It is good that social issues are finally on the agenda. However, the EU should not have any competence in this area. The social pillar is a way of comparing the countries of the European Union and seeing how they are lagging behind a number of socially oriented parameters. We certainly think that we can do that. But there are no legislative acts. Désirée Pethrus is welcome to show me the directive or regulation that requires minimum wages in Sweden. There is no such thing. I argue that the Christian Democrats and the other bourgeois parties are not acting against the social dumping that we see in our labour market in Sweden and throughout Europe. You have to be blind if you do not see that Bulgarian truckers drive truck here in Sweden for 30 kronor an hour, while a Swedish truck driver with a collective agreement earns three four times more. How can you have subcontractors who do not have a collective agreement and who dump their wages and conditions on large buildings, for example here in Stockholm? Yes, you can do that because unions do not have the right to take action and stand up for the legislation that we have in Sweden. That's what the Laval judgment was all about. If the Christian Democrats want to do something about it, take it in reality and not just in theory, it is a social protocol that applies. Then it is a question of equalising social and trade union rights with the right to come here and work and offer services, which is basically a good thing.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-213	Mr President, I would like to It's a good thing we're going to have to sort out these questions. We in the Christian Democrats are, of course, in favour of social development. The difference between the Left Party and the Christian Democrats is that we believe that economic development leads to an opportunity to create social reforms, security reforms, various benefit systems and social security systems – what we have in Sweden. What you want to do with the Social Democrats and the Green Party is to try to create a situation in which we shall have these different rules and all the directives that we have now on the table. We're gonna give it all to everyone without knowing how to finance it. After all, the European Commission is not talking about how it should be financed. Now Mr Macron is beginning to tell us that it is going to an EU budget. Is it through an EU budget that it is to be financed? Should Sweden as a net contributor pay even more because other countries have not made the necessary reforms? Reforms must be made in one's own country and efforts must be made to promote economic development. That's where I object. The fact that lorry drivers earn SEK 30 an hour is totally unacceptable, and according to the EU Directive and the Posting of Workers Directive it must not be that way. The union can report this to the European Commission and the European Court of Justice. It goes without saying that this goes against the whole EU directive. What would the EU Posting of Workers Directive look like if we said that it is okay to go to any salary? You don't get to do pay dumping. That is exactly what European law says. However, I think your path is completely wrong. We agree to hunt those who abuse the system, hunt, hunt them! It is perfectly okay to give the union the opportunity to intervene, but it is not the case that the regulatory framework at European level says that we need to regulate even more and that the EU should intervene even more. Sweden and other countries shall ensure the functioning of the EU acquis.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-217	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by thanking you for inviting me to discuss the Commission's work programme for 2018 and at the same time give you a picture of the government's work in priority areas. Compared with the situation last year, it is now a much more optimistic atmosphere and feeling in the EU. This positive energy must be used to continue delivering in those areas where we have already made progress and where Europe provides added value to our citizens. Some 80% of the proposals promised by the Commission at the time of its entry into office have been tabled. Next year we must focus on turning the proposals into reality. As the work programme describes, jobs, the economy, security, migration, climate and common values – such as respect for the rule of law – are areas where we can deliver concrete results. We should not engage in a difficult discussion on Treaty changes or new institutional projects. We have had a necessary and long-awaited debate on how the European Union is to develop. As you know, the Commission presented a White Paper in March containing five possible scenarios for the future development of the European Union, with five subsequent discussion papers in concrete areas. On the basis of the White Paper, the debate on the future has intensified in the autumn. The government has invited civil society to five separate EU Councils to discuss the different thought papers. This shall be compiled and translated and sent to the Commission. In addition, all the discussion papers have been included in the relevant committees in the Riksdag. At the level of Heads of State or Government, a timetable for the debate on the future has been laid down in what is known as the leadership agenda. The future discussion will continue until spring 2019. Mr President, I would like to A crucial issue for the EU is how Member States live up to our common values and the principles of the rule of law. The fundamental values of the EU are the basis for effective cooperation and for the economic and social development of the Union. The EU must be able to act with credibility for democracy and human rights in the world. The discussion on how to strengthen the rule of law has been going on for several years but intensified with the worrying developments in Poland and Hungary. It remains to be seen how the dialogue between the Commission and Poland is moving forward. The government fully supports the Commission in this work. One thing is clear, however. It is deeply worrying that some Member States no longer seem to share our fundamental values, including respect for the principles of the rule of law. I look forward to the proposal that the Commission is expected to present at the end of next year under the work programme. One cannot choose and choose among the common rules and obligations that apply. Similarly, Member States that fail to meet common commitments and do not respect the common values of the Union should not have access to EU funds in the same way as they do today. In the government, we are working with like-minded countries on how to move forward, and I am in close contact with the Commissioner responsible, Mr Timmermans. If the principles of the rule of law are violated, there must be consequences. Mr President, I would like to 1.4 million people have a job to do thanks to exports, and 70% of our exports go to the EU's internal market. There is no doubt that the EU is important for jobs here in Sweden. I have taken the initiative for the so-called D9 cooperation, that Sweden, together with eight of the most digitising Member States, is pushing for digitisation issues and the completion of the digital single market. It is therefore gratifying that the Commission highlights the importance of the digital market strategy and that it will be finalised next year. Two concrete successes in this area are the abolition of roaming charges for mobile surfing throughout the EU and the abolition of unjustified geo-blocking, i.e. discrimination when acting according to the country in which you live. Sweden stands up to protectionist tendencies and continues to be a clear free trade voice in the Union. Negotiations are currently under way with tens of countries. The agreement with Japan is almost complete, and the government has also been an active partner in the EU FTA negotiations with both Mexico and Mercosur. The Commission's work programme highlights the opening of negotiations with Australia and New Zealand, which we consider to be urgent. It is easy to see how important this is for Sweden. The free trade agreement with South Korea led to an increase of 70 per cent in exports from Sweden. The euro zone has the highest growth rate in a decade, and growth has increased by 2.3% throughout the EU. The growth in Sweden is up to 3 per cent. It is higher growth than in most countries in Europe. These are encouraging figures. This growth must benefit everyone; it must be inclusive growth. This and much more was discussed at the Summit for Fair Jobs and Growth in Gothenburg a few weeks ago. The meeting was unique in its kind and a concrete example of Sweden contributing to the important future discussion in the Union. Now the hosts of the meeting, our Prime Minister and President Jean-Claude of the Commission, have published a report from the meeting as a contribution to the conclusions of the European Council in December. The discussion must not stop at just one meeting, but must continue to be high on the EU's agenda. That is why the social pillar is another success. It consists of 20 important principles and rights that can contribute to a fairer and more well-functioning labour market. Mr President, I would like to Another important issue that the government prioritises is migration. The EU must take joint responsibility for the refugees who make their way to Europe. Sweden is pushing the line that we must have a solidarity-based asylum system based on the responsibility of all Member States. It is positive that the Commission's work programme has a longer time horizon regarding the implementation of Agenda 2030 and the global sustainable development goals including the Paris Agreement and climate and energy policies. We shall ensure that the EU meets its commitments at a time when others are hesitant. Mr President, I would like to We are living in an increasingly troubled time. The security situation also faces a number of challenges. The EU must be a strong security and foreign policy player. Through the launch of Pesco, Sweden takes responsibility for developing the EU's common defence and security policy. Europol's powers have been strengthened, and we have taken decisions to facilitate the exchange of information between Member States' law enforcement authorities. In the context of cybersecurity, how violent and other criminal content on the Internet should be handled is discussed. With regard to the Brexit negotiations, the UK has taken decisive steps in terms of the financial settlement, and we have reached a very long way in terms of citizens' rights. If those closest to them can also find a way to deal with the sensitive issue of Ireland, and we know that it is close, there is a possibility of a breakthrough at the European Council meeting at the end of next week. It is very important that the negotiations can be opened up, including for our future relationship with the United Kingdom, and that we have a transitional arrangement. It is up to the UK to decide how close a relationship with the EU it wants to seek. Within this framework and in a spirit of respect, responsibility and clear rules of the game, we want to see as good a future relationship as possible for Sweden, the EU and the UK. I will also say something about the government's position in view of the negotiations on the next Multiannual Financial Framework, which, according to the work programme, is due to be presented in May next year. When the UK contribution disappears, expenditure needs to be reduced by the same amount. The government wants to set a ceiling of expenditure not exceeding 1% of the EU budget. The Swedish fee must be kept down. We want to do this mainly by reducing the size of the budget, but also by safeguarding the share we are to pay ourselves. In the final document, when the size of the financial framework is negotiated and locked, we will of course work to ensure that the return to Sweden is as good as possible. The government prioritises a reformed long-term budget. It will focus on actions that generate clear added value in areas such as security, migration, competitiveness, research, innovation and climate change. This means that much less funds must be allocated to the common agricultural policy and the Structural Funds than is currently the case. Mr President, I would like to I would like to stress that each individual initiative presented within the framework of the work programme must be assessed and prepared on its own merits. The government will therefore return to Parliament as the individual legislative initiatives are presented. Let me conclude by saying something about the participatory work, because that is something that I am really passionate about. I want to strengthen knowledge, participation and commitment to European issues in Sweden. The previous government produced an investigation that revealed appalling gaps in knowledge of the EU among key groups such as elected representatives, teachers and journalists. This is an issue that the government cannot resolve itself; it requires the input of many more people in society. That is why I am now implementing so-called EU handshake around Sweden with organisations, municipalities, regions and universities to take action to increase citizen participation in European affairs and make information more accessible. So far, I have implemented EU law with 42 actors, ranging from youth organisations and social partners to municipalities, regions and universities. I now hope that the Members of Parliament will bring today's discussion to all the voters.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-256	Mr President, I would like to Ann Linde is not only EU Minister but also Minister for Trade. It is a good thing that the Minister has such a great deal of commitment to trade issues, but, as I said in the previous shift of line with the Center Party, trade and investment cannot be an interest that is superior to any other important purpose we want to achieve. Unfortunately, a number of trade and investment agreements already in place today have so-called investment protection. It gives companies the right to sue states in the event that investments are under threat. I mentioned earlier the NAFTA agreement, which has meant that Canada has probably become the world's most corporate industrial country because, particularly in the environmental field, it has tried to regulate the mining, oil extraction, mining and so on. Now the EU is drafting a number of trade and investment agreements. I note that in some draft agreements there is no investment protection. This applies, for example, to the Mercosur Agreement, and I believe that it also applies to the agreements with New Zealand and Australia. It would suggest, Ann Linde, that it is perfectly possible to conclude trade agreements with other countries without giving companies a specific clause which they can use to sue states. Does the Swedish Government believe that investment protection for companies is so incredibly important that it must be included in all trade agreements concluded by the EU?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-260	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the question, Jens Holm! Here we have a really big difference in how we view both trade agreements and company rights and what trade agreements and companies mean for growth and jobs. It is not at all unreasonable for companies to be able to ensure that they are not discriminated against in countries with which they trade. For example, it could be expropriating everything that a company has invested, which has now happened in Kyrgyzstan, or being treated differently from domestic companies. It is highly reasonable to have investment agreements. That is why we now have 65 bilateral investment agreements between Sweden and other countries. There is, of course, the possibility of deciding that there is no investment protection element in an agreement. It depends on how you write the mandates. You didn't mention Brazil. Nor is there an investment agreement. However, this is necessary in order not to discriminate against companies. As far as Canada is concerned, there are three lawsuits under way. One case has been won by the state, and two are ongoing. When it comes to the case that you, and others with the viewpoint that you have, usually use, Philip Morris, Philip Morris sued Uruguay, and there won Uruguay. The second case concerns Australia, where Australia won because it was the wrong framework formally to address it. On the one hand, investment agreements are reasonable, and on the other hand, it is quite excessive to give the impression that it is the big bad companies that always go in and win. On the contrary, many Swedish companies need such protection.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-265	Mr President, I would like to It is usually argued that investment protection is needed to facilitate companies' investments and provide them with extra security. With regard to the CETA agreement between the European States and Canada, it is an agreement between the rule of law. We already have a working order in our public courts that you can go to if you think that property, for example, has been expropriated. As far as I know, it's already in our constitution, Ann Linde. Why should we give the companies an extra chance to sue states? If this is so important, Ann Linde : Why not give environmental organizations the opportunity to sue companies? Why not give States the opportunity to sue the companies back? Why should it be the case in the procedure that companies have all rights while the states and the rest of us only have obligations? Mr President, I would like to The Minister did not really respond to how the EU could conclude agreements with Mercosur countries in South America and with Australia and New Zealand without investment protection. It is clearly an excellent place to trade with each other without giving the companies extra protection. I think that sometimes the companies win and sometimes the states win. Unfortunately, however, the mere risk of getting a billion-dollar mood against them becomes a restraint on progressive politics. When Romania went out and said: We do not want a large mine to be built in Roşia Montană, an area in Romania, it got a multibillion-dollar atmosphere that is almost as big as the whole of Romania's health budget. Does Ann Linde not believe that such threats affect the actions of a poor country? Why should companies receive investment protection in EU international agreements?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-270	Mr President, I would like to I think that Jens Holm has a completely wrong view of what it is about and why you should have it. Investment protection should be provided for companies to want to invest in other countries. You should have the opportunity not to be treated differently from the companies in that country where you invest. That's why you have it. That is why Sweden already has 65 such bilateral agreements. In most cases, big companies do not win. Furthermore, as Jens Holm points out, it is a matter of protection that already exists in the Constitution. However, it uses arbitration, as it does in many other contexts, and not just in trade contexts. It's easier and more fair. One can only imagine the possibilities for Swedish companies that have been mistreated, for example. You don't have to take any U-country. You can take, for example, a state in the United States. They'll have to go to a state court and see what opportunity they have there. It is much better that you have a separate arbitration panel where you have separate judges and that the questions are only handled there to ensure that there is a fair arbitration. There is nothing in the agreements that is different from what we already have in the Swedish constitution. We're not going any further. We have heard the criticism from Jens Holm and others. Therefore, the way in which the arbitration tribunals are appointed has been changed. In Canada, what was previously called ISDS has been removed and, instead, there are independent judges, there are opportunities to appeal, and so on.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-275	Madam President, I would like Christmas is approaching, and for many it hopefully gives a chance to rest and reflection. At the same time, unfortunately, there are also those who see Christmas time as a completely different kind of opportunity. We read about organized gangs of theft in various places in the country. In cities such as Malmö, the police have received several reports of burglaries at night, while the families are at home. Too many people come home from Christmas to a home turned upside down by burglars. The police testify that a large proportion of these villa crimes are committed by foreign theft gangs. Almost none of the burglaries are cleared up. In 2016, it was actually about as few as 2.1 per cent. In cases where the crimes lead to conviction, the penalties are alarmingly low. For this reason, the Riksdag has decided on two occasions that the penalties for burglary should be tightened up by its own criminal harassment, burglary theft. Nevertheless, only a few weeks ago, the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs announced that no investigation has yet been set up. I am probably not alone in this House or outside to think that Christmas peace would feel somewhat more peaceful if the police were able to investigate more burglaries and if the penalties for the perpetrators were much more severe. Against this background, I would like to ask the Prime Minister: will the government make proposals to tighten up the penalties for burglary by means of a special criminal report, as requested by Parliament on two occasions?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-280	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that it is clear that the government takes all parliamentary decisions and announcements seriously. Of course, it is important to take them into the government's work in the way that suits best. There is no doubt that this is the principle that applies. Tobias Billström is absolutely right that we need to get to these theft leagues. Society's message, not least to the foreign theft leagues, should be that it should be extremely difficult to be a criminal, come here to Sweden and steal, take out stolen goods and then get away with it. Much more needs to be done here, and that business model needs to be broken. Firstly, we have continuously added more resources to the police. Next year, we will provide more resources than the Authority itself has requested. We need more cops, and we're training more cops to facilitate the investigation. Until 2024 we will have a total of 10 000 more employees in the agency. We intend to strengthen the possibilities for cooperation between the authorities, which of course includes the police but also the Coast Guard and the Customs Agency, precisely to break the business model: It should be extremely difficult to bring things out. We believe that it will then be less attractive for the foreign theft leagues to come here. They account, according to estimates, for about half of the house invasions, so that would of course be a real effort. So there is no doubt whatsoever from the government: we certainly do not accept this organised crime, nor, of course, the foreign one. We will do what can be done with regard to specific legislation, and then I will have to return to Parliament in the order that is possible.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-285	Madam President, I would like The Prime Minister agrees that this is a major problem – excellent! However, it is not enough to complain or make general statements here in the speaker's chair. There is broad support in the Riksdag to get through concrete proposals to curb this type of crime, on which we agree, is a major problem, not only in Christmas time but all year round. As early as 2015, the Swedish parliament announced to the government that it wanted to get such legislation in place. The time passed, and when the government did not act, the Riksdag decided that the government will present a proposal on burglary by 1 April 2018. The Prime Minister himself travelled around Sweden in November and talked about what he described as a force against crime. Then it is important to act, so I repeat my question: Will the government have made proposals by 1 April 2018 to tighten the penalties for burglary by means of a specific criminal offence – yes or no?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-288	Madam President, I would like The answer is the same, Tobias Billström : We prepare legislative proposals and should have a basis for this. It is prepared in the Government Office, as it should be, and weighed against other legislation. We are therefore preparing according to the order that we should follow and do what we can, but we have no other opinion than that one should of course heed the Riksdag's decisions. It is not true that we are not doing anything. It is not true that only general announcements are made here in Parliament. The police are given more resources than you have requested. We've increased the training rate for police officers. It was somewhere between 600 and 700 in the last year of the last government... now it's almost double. We're going to set up two new police training courses. We strengthen cooperation between the authorities – there is also the Coast Guard and the Finnish Customs. It is important to break a business model. Foreign leagues should not be able to enter and believe themselves to be able to make big profits by bringing goods out. That model should be broken. We don't accept theft leagues.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-291	Madam President, I would like On 12 October this year we were in this Chamber. I was standing right here, and the Prime Minister was standing right where he is now. I referred to the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan, which was committed by a person who had been rejected but was still allowed to remain in the country. I criticised the Prime Minister for not doing enough to maintain an orderly migration policy and to remedy the problems of the tens of thousands of people who have been rejected but who continue to reside illegally in our country. The Prime Minister then accused me of exaggerating and said that the government has a very clear principle that the one who has received a "no" should return. Just a few weeks after we last stood here and the Prime Minister said this, the government announced that it intends to allow a large number of immigrants to stay in Sweden despite the fact that they have been refused asylum applications. One will, as it stands, even allow people who have deliberately lied about their age and thus lured into themselves benefits that they were not entitled to stay in Sweden. This will, of course, increase the incentive for others to remain illegally despite the rejection, and it will most likely increase the asylum pressure on Sweden. My question to the Prime Minister is: How can the Swedish people trust what you say here in the pulpit, when the commitments and principles you express here do not seem to have much longer durability than milk?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-295	Madam President, I would like First of all, this is an incorrect description of what has happened. We reversed migration policy after the end of 2015. As we know, in autumn 2015 we had a record influx of asylum seekers. That migration policy was changed. This was done through a temporary law that will extend until July 2019. When it was introduced, it was also said that there would be a two-year reconciliation. Would it last all the way, or would it be interrupted in 2018? What the government has decided on is to start talks with the other parties about its reaching out to 2019 – that we are holding the stricter migration policy. A few who came here as minors even, if I remember correctly, on 24 November 2015 and have had an extraordinary length of processing time – 15 months or more – are given a new opportunity to review, provided that you start, or have started and continue, studies. Studies are an investment no matter where you end up in life. This is not an incentive for anyone to stay behind, but if you have arrived no later than 24 November 2015, you can be part of this group and can apply individually. It is not a general amnesty, but it gives you the opportunity to apply if you can link it to studies. So there is no incentive for others to stay behind than those who came here by 24 November 2015 and, nota bene, is here in the country. That's the answer to the question.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-300	Madam President, I would like Quite apart from what extenuating concepts and words the Prime Minister uses here, one cannot escape the fact that this is a devastating proposal. All previous experience shows that migration flows are governed by signal politics and so-called push and pull factors. We know that this kind of decision, which signals that you can stay even if you have been rejected and that it is possible to get to Sweden for profit and loss, will increase immigration. We also know that increased, uncontrolled immigration will mean an increase in crime. It will mean more victims of rape, an increased risk of terrorist attacks, an increase in segregation in this country, an erosion of well-being and cultural clashes. Is it really worth exposing the Swedish people to all of this once again just to be able to remain in power with the Green Party?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-303	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats only have one way of describing reality, unfortunately. This does not mean increased immigration, it is about people who are in this country, who came here no later than 24 November 2015 and who were minors at the time. They are given an opportunity on the grounds that they have had exceptionally long processing times of more than 15 months. Under EU rules, it is supposed to be 9 months. In exceptional circumstances, 15 months are accepted, but more than 15 months are not considered acceptable, so this is something that we are hanging up to the European acquis. The truth is that we are holding on to the stricter migration policy. That is what the Swedish Democrats also need to see. We are doing so with the temporary law extending until July 2019, and in the meantime, we shall also ensure that we have more uniform legislation across the EU so that Sweden does not take greater responsibility than other countries in the EU in terms of migration policy.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-306	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Prime Minister a very simple question. What is the best thing about temporary agency work, and what do they add to the Swedish labour market?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-307	Madam President, I would like I've had a lot of work to do with temporary work. What they add, I think, is the possibility for some companies that need it to manage flexibility. Provided that there are fair permanent contracts with collective agreements and conditions, which several LO associations and, of course, other unions have with temporary agencies, there is a great advantage. I believe that in their negotiations with the trade unions, the companies themselves should settle the mix of permanent workers, fixed-term workers, temporary workers and so on. It's up to everyone to decide, simply.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-309	Madam President, I would like Temporary agencies employ 50 000 foreign-born people every year. The share of foreign born is twice as high as that of the rest of the labour market. 97% of employees have collective agreements. LO has had as an ultimatum that temporary work agencies should not be subject to the principle agreement now reached by the parties on start-up jobs. Now that agreement is soon on the table of the government. Does the Prime Minister think it reasonable that temporary work agencies, such an important job creator and an integration engine, should not be included in the government's forthcoming proposal for a start-up job?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-312	Madam President, I would like Tomorrow, Minister Ylva Johansson will meet with the parties for the first time to examine the proposal that the parties have put forward on how they want it. Then the government will have to look at it and turn it around and also the proposals it makes on other parts, and then we will have to make an overall assessment and come back to the parties in a dialogue on how we view the issue. First, however, I would like the Minister for Employment to listen to the parties and look at the proposals. Then we'll get back to you.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-315	Madam President, I would like Daily we receive stories from people whose lives have been beaten in ruins by sickness and lack of sickness benefit. Today I read about Uzunic Uzunic. She wrote this: I live with Ms. two years ago, which has caused paralysis in soon my entire right leg, weak power in my right hand and double vision. When I was sick, the Social Insurance Office refused to approve of this, even though they never met me or wanted to see me. In two years I haven't had an income and have had to rely on my husband to pay the bills and my children to help. Amna's problem isn't that she's fallen between two chairs. Anna's problem is that she is ill and that she has also become completely financially dependent on her husband when she has been denied the right to sickness benefit by doctors and officials she has not met. Madam President, I would like We removed the precipice of health insurance along with the government. We could not then imagine that a Social Democratic-led government would continue the insurance policies but by another method. Can the Prime Minister answer when the government will take Amna Uzunic and all her unfortunate companions seriously and give them an opportunity for a dignified life despite severe illness?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-319	Madam President, I would like I assume that Mia Sydow Mölleby does not expect me to comment on individual matters and individual government decisions. Of course, sickness benefit should be a good protection and lead, we believe, to a better order in terms of people coming back to work. That is why, among other things, we are discussing with the social partners. We believe that more can be done to get you back to work. Government decisions will mean yes or no. I have no suggestion in front of me that the law should be amended or what might have to be done. What Mia Sydow Mölleby points out is precisely this matter of falling between the chairs, which I understand this particular case is not about. But when it comes to falling between the chairs, we have a real problem. Unfortunately, after many years and under various governments and government formations, we still have the fact that people end up between the seats. We believe that we need to go in and look at this carefully. It is reasonable that you belong to an insurance policy before you cross over with someone else. I am talking in particular about unemployment insurance and health insurance. That's my answer. We're going to have a good health insurance, and it's going to provide good protection. Of course, there will always be trials. That's how it has to be. I cannot, as Prime Minister and in individual cases, have any idea of it or try it over.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-324	Madam President, I would like It is clear that individual cases cannot be commented on. The problem is that there are very many people who have not really fallen between the chairs but that the insurance does not work. Försäkringskassan has a goal that you may not have more than a certain number of sick days, i.e. that we should have a limitation on how long people should be ill and how high the sickness benefit rate should be. But you can't predict, you can't decide, how long people should be sick. People are getting healthier with good health care, and in the meantime a working sickness benefit is needed. That's how people get healthy. They get help. You don't get well because the sickness allowance is being withdrawn. Is the government prepared to swallow the prestige and remove the goal of the Social Insurance Agency with a special sickness benefit rate?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-327	Madam President, I would like We think it is good to aim for the number of sick leave to go down in the country. We cannot have a system where we think it is good that we have as many sick leave as possible, but the reasonable thing is that it is as few as possible. But this is to be done with dignity, and that is why I say that cooperation with the social partners is important. That is why we have given assignments to both health care and the parties, and there is, of course, a responsibility to take for the individual as well. For the parties, preventive, ongoing work environment management must be improved, as well as rehabilitation work, not least so that you can get back to work as quickly as possible. Our aim should be to shorten it. We have to. But it must be done in a dignified way and not least in cooperation with the social partners.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-332	Madam President, I would like Sweden's biggest societal challenge is the large group of low-skilled newcomers who have come to Sweden and who do not have qualifications to enter the labour market. Our thresholds are too high. If we fail to resolve this, exclusion will create huge problems. Sweden will drift apart, with a large dependency on subsidies and suburban problems with everything it entails of social problems, crime and so on. This has been realized by more people. Therefore, a number of associations within LO and a number of employers' associations have concluded an agreement in principle, as Annie Lööf asked about earlier. The problem with the agreement is that LO has demanded that a large number of companies should not be involved in creating these jobs. This applies to all companies that do not have collective agreements. It happens that most of Sweden's companies do not have collective agreements. There is no law in Sweden that says you have to have it. Part of the Swedish model is that collective agreements are not being legislated. It's optional to have it. 60% of Sweden's companies that have employees do not have collective agreements. 185 000 companies do not, and these are mainly small enterprises. That's where service jobs can grow, and they're not part of the reform. The parties may conclude any agreement they wish. But this presupposes the participation of Parliament, as they demand tax exemption. Does the Prime Minister think it is reasonable to exclude the majority of Sweden's companies if a reform is made in order for low-skilled newcomers to come to work?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-338	Madam President, I would like We have been discussing for quite some time how to sharpen the thresholds so that even people with low qualifications, not least new arrivals, will enter the labour market. It sounded like we agreed that it is better for the parties to take this first than for us to go in and legislate. Now the parties have done so. And now the bourgeoisie is quick to condemn it. It is the parties who have concluded an agreement. It is therefore trade union organisations and employers' organisations that are responsible for collective agreements. It is a good order in Sweden to stand up for collective agreements. Perhaps more people need to join and be covered by them? We know that this, properly designed and properly developed, will provide many people with work. And it's a good order. As I said to Annie Lööf earlier, the Minister for Labour will meet with the parties for the first time tomorrow and take note of their suggestions on how they want to put it up. Then the government will have to think about what we can face up to, how it will come about and draw conclusions after that. The fact that the parties stand up for their collective agreements does not seem strange to me. And I think that the Swedish Parliament should stand up for the collective agreements. It is an important part of the Swedish model. This will give a lot of people work. But let us see what the conclusions will be when the Minister for Labour has met the parties and the dialogue is in progress.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-343	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats are applauding strongly in the Riksdag now that the Prime Minister is excluding 60 per cent of companies in order to set up start-ups. That's exactly what's happening now. That's what the deal is about. It is clear that the parties will come to an agreement. But they're sending the bill here for a model that's not good enough. We could, of course, abolish Parliament and let LO decide everything. Finally, however, Parliament must decide whether it should be tax-free or not. And then it must be a model that we believe in. 60% is excluded. In addition, a Swede who has an income of 16 000 per month pays several thousand in income tax. A pensioner who has 16,000 a month pays thousands of income tax. I think that a new arrival who receives 16 000 in income should be exempt from tax will be very controversial in Sweden. Our crucial objection, however, is that we must allow all companies to participate in this. The ambition is right. Lower the thresholds! Lower entry wages will give more jobs. That's where you're right. But then we must also open up the whole labour market to it.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-347	Madam President, I would like It's weird. I do not know how many times Jan Björklund has thrown out the name LO as if it were a swearing, when we have debated this. There are two sides to this, employers' organisations and workers' organisations. There are two parties to the settlement. As far as the various proposals are concerned, we need to analyse them and see what can be done or not. But that society should meet up when the parties want to make an effort to get the new arrivals into work, I think is important. This seems to be something ideological. There should somehow be lower wages. For some time it was women who would have lower wages to get to work. For a while it was the young people who would have lower wages to get to work. Now we have the lowest unemployment rate in 14 years, with no cuts in wages. But now it is the new arrivals who should have lower wages. No, we shall look in a pragmatic manner at what the parties have come up with and see what society can contribute.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-353	Madam President, I would like Personal robbery, sexual offences, assault, fraud, harassment and threats are increasing categories of offences, according to the Council's Security Survey. Many women are worried about going out on their own. Many elderly people are very concerned about travelling theft leagues. We see gang crime and organised crime spreading. At the same time, we see violent attacks on police houses and police officers around Sweden. The attempted murder of police officers in Uppsala last week is just one example. According to TT, a hand grenade was obviously thrown at the police. We must never accept this. And it's urgent. If we are to reverse developments in alienation areas, reverse the trend of insecurity spreading in the country, we need police officers on the ground quickly. The Christian Democrats have proposed 10 000 more police officers. The government has also proposed 10 000 more police employees. In any case, if I have understood correctly, that is the ambition of the Social Democrats. The government has also increased the number of training places. But the chairs of the trainings are empty. At the same time, record numbers of police officers end up in government during the Prime Minister's time. In order to increase the number of police officers, to attract those who have quit and keep police in the profession, the attractiveness of the profession must be increased and working conditions improved. And the single most important effort to do so is to raise police salaries, especially for police officers in external service. We Christian Democrats have proposed a special police salary increase, a distributed money to go to raising police salaries. Why is it important for the government not to do that, Stefan Löfven? For example, you have targeted money to raise teachers' salaries.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-358	Madam President, I would like Crimes are a serious matter. It is extremely important for society to mark against it. We'll be safe from crime and have a safe life. That is why, among other things, we are providing the police with as much resources as I said earlier. It is good that the Christian Democrats also want more police to be trained. Then one should be happy to have a Social Democratic-led government, which ensures that there is much more police training than the bourgeois government did. One should be glad that we provide so much resources, to have a government that does not prioritise major tax cuts but provides resources. One should be happy to have a government that has raised the penalties for some thirty crimes. It was neglected after eight years with a bourgeois government. We have raised the penalties considerably, including for gun crimes. Those who think they're going to go out with a gun in their pocket should know that they're not just going to jail for the day and then come out and wait a few months. Anyone who gets caught now will remain, when the new legislation that we adopt comes into place. Then the person won't be home for two years. It's a very good signal from society that it's not okay to walk around carrying guns in your pocket. As far as salaries are concerned, I have said in the past that we have contributed more resources to the Authority than the Authority required. It also includes a mandate for the Agency, together with the workers' organisations, to ensure that the conditions for making the police profession more attractive are improved and strengthened. Of course, it's no stranger than that salary is part of this. However, I think that the order that we have, that it is mainly the parties who should manage wage formation, is good. We've made an exception on the teacher's side. One of the reasons is that everyone, no matter where they are supposed to be in society, must pass school. But otherwise we think that wage formation should be handled by the parties.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-363	Madam President, I would like It is an exception that the government makes. That is why I believe that the principle that is always stated is being violated, that it is the parties who should resolve the issue. We are now seeing a great crisis of security and a big drop-off from the police profession. In 2014, 678 police officers ended, in 2015 832 police officers stopped, in 2016 950 police officers ended. So far this year, 878 people have stopped working as police officers. This requires a clear signal from the government that police salaries must be increased to ensure that there are more police officers, not fewer. There have been fewer police officers since you took over the government, and now the number is down to under 20,000 police officers. Reportedly, your own Home Secretary said a few years ago that it doesn't matter if it's 19 000 or 20 000 police officers. Now we see the result of government policy. One has had a casual attitude, but now it has to be strong.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-366	Madam President, I would like I repeat again: we are providing more resources to the Police Authority than the Agency itself has requested. Our clear mission is to ensure that conditions are improved. But it is the authority that has the knowledge. Compared to the bourgeois government, we have increased the rate of education. There are now more – almost twice as many as there were in 2014 – who are starting police training. It's a big increase. In addition, two new police colleges are opened, one in the west and one in the south of Sweden. Then there will be more police training, of which I am absolutely convinced. Some of those who quit are actually retiring. That is why we need to increase education. But that space did not exist during the bourgeois period. Then it was so cheap with the number of courses started that it went almost plus minus zero. I can't let it. We're going to have more trained police officers and better conditions for the police.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-373	Madam President, I would like I would also like to ask the Minister of State a question about the creation of jobs. Trade unions and employers have agreed on the so-called start-up jobs. It should be full-time jobs, it should mainly lead to an open-ended employment, include training on paid working hours and pay should comply with collective agreements. It is good that the parties have agreed on this. Collectively agreed salary and permanent employment as a goal, it is order and order of the Swedish labour market. However, for this to lead to a secure foothold in the labour market, the educational component must be of high quality in order for us to equip people with the right skills in the labour market. Here I see that there are challenges. But perhaps the biggest challenge, the Prime Minister, is in this house, as we have heard here today in part. There are those who prefer to see legislation rather than the parties agree. My question to the Prime Minister is: How does the Prime Minister think about the issues that remain before the start-up jobs can become a reality and we get a functioning labour market for new arrivals?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-378	Madam President, I would like I naturally share Annelie Karlsson's view that this is an important opportunity, and now it must not be lost. When I answered a question like this earlier, I said that Ylva Johansson, the Minister for Employment, will meet with the parties tomorrow to start a discussion on how this can be taken forward and what is expected of society for this to work. In my opinion – and this is shown by the discussion – education is a key issue in so many different situations, including in this one. In cases where jobs are combined with education, not least language training, it is of course an important ingredient. What surprises me is again what I said earlier. It was said earlier that it was okay for the parties to come up with proposals. When the parties come up with a proposal, it is quick to condemn it before it is even tried. I mean, that's wrong.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-383	Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago we were able to read in the newspapers about the collaboration that the Swedish government is now starting with France and Macron about innovation and green solutions. I was very pleased that the climate agreement, the Paris agreement, can be used as a starting point for new business and new ideas. After all, France already has a climate plan similar to Sweden's plan. It puts an end to the sale of fossil fuel cars before 2040 and carbon neutrality by 2050. In Sweden, we have set ourselves the goal of becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare nation with the interim target of reducing emissions for the transport sector by at least 70% by 2030. Sweden also strives to become carbon neutral by 2045. Now I wonder if the Prime Minister can tell us more about the content of green innovation cooperation.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-387	Madam President, I would like I'd love to. We have an innovation cooperation with Germany, with France and we also have a very good cooperation with India that will be further developed. As is said here by Agneta Börjesson, France and Sweden see the climate issue equally. We're setting clear targets. We will end this with milestones. At the same time, we say that this is where the new jobs and the future are. That is why we also have great opportunities in a global market – India, China and so on. I can mention two areas. One is smart transportation. We will make sure that transport does not cause emissions. The second is smart cities, how cities should be built and developed with respect for nature and the environment. We'll make sure to reverse the climate threat. These are two very good areas that will be filled with increasingly concrete content.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-392	Madam President, I would like Sweden campaigned to the UN Security Council with the key words openness as a goal and means. However, information has now come to light that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has failed to record a number of documents relating to the campaign for a place in the UN Security Council. This is not the first time that this government – deliberately or unintentionally – seems to have misinterpreted the word transparency. My question to Prime Minister Stefan Löfven is: How does the government actually define openness and transparency? Should not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Head of Department, Margot Wallström, also follow the principles, rules and procedures that apply?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-395	Madam President, I would like After all, work on the candidacy of the UN Security Council has been investigated a number of times – three investigations and no one has found anything inappropriate in that work. There's nothing to hide. The Secretary of State has answered the question. These are routines that have not been followed, and that is unfortunate in itself. We will remember that there have been 74,000 e-mail logs requested. It may not be possible to answer that question in a day or two. The procedure shall be carried out as quickly as possible. It should be completely open for the simple reason that we have nothing to hide. We have exactly the same view of documents as everyone else. We note, however, that some of the problems lie in missing documents in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but these documents were lost during the previous government period. Let us help each other to ensure that we have the necessary transparency and that we show the principle of public access the respect it deserves.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-399	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a top-class medical care in terms of medical results, which we should be proud of. But when it comes to accessibility, we are in the bottom class. Sweden currently has the absolute longest waiting times throughout Europe. This means that people get very bad and that cancer patients even die in the care queues. I am absolutely convinced that the Prime Minister is as worried about this as I am about it. I also know that the government is investing in health care in its budget, which is a good thing. However, it will not help the 125 000 patients who are currently stuck in care queues. Is it not time that we now put aside all political prestige on this issue? We may, of course, have different views on the solutions, but I know that we both want the best interests of patients. That is why we will invite all parties to a national collection on health care to see what solutions can be found at national level to reduce patients' suffering. My question is this: will the Prime Minister accept our invitation?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-405	Madam President, I would like Work's in progress. As Per Ramhorn describes, we have some of the best results in the world in terms of cancer care and other diagnoses. I think you measure about thirty diagnoses. We are in good shape, but it takes too long to get into medical care. There is no doubt about it. That is why we have investigated this during our term of government, and now the proposals are being drawn up gradually to get things right. The first prerequisite is that you have resources for health care and welfare. Then you cannot lower the tax in the 100-billion-dollar class, as the Swedish Democrats are prepared to do together with the four bourgeois parties. This is the first choice you have to make. The second is to think about how we can bring more resources even closer to the health centres. We are now having a discussion on how we can develop this, so that care is brought closer and the guarantee of care is strengthened and strengthened. People need to be able to get in touch and advice as quickly as possible – faster than with today's guarantee.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-408	Madam President, I would like Over 1,600 women in politics have signed the roll call in power corridors, and this is only a fraction of all the women who have gathered during the hashtag # metoo. As long as sexual harassment continues in the corridors of power, they will also continue in school corridors, workplaces and public spaces. The Swedish Parliament consists of 56 percent men, and the Prime Minister is also a man. It is we men who are in power, and unless we men with power take responsibility for combating sexual violence, other men will not do so either. Madam President, I would like Metoo needs to be a historic alarm clock. Now I hope that words become actions and that Sweden's self-appointed feminist government also accepts its responsibility. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: when does the government come to Parliament with a consent law?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-412	Madam President, I would like I fully share the description of this unfortunate problem. What we have seen is a disaster, in which so many women are exposed to one and the other. This is totally unacceptable. We in Sweden should not have such a society. That is why we need to do much more. I also share the view that this often has to do with power and power. We need to think about how to reduce this. As far as the legislation is concerned, I cannot say a date for it. I hope I'm sorry about that. However, it is underway. We are to have a modified sex crime law where it is clear that a yes is a yes. That's the deal. As far as I know, there is also an act of negligence, which means that we would actually have known the situation. This is being tightened up, which I think is a good thing. This is a good step, and it is absolutely necessary.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-415	Madam President, I would like The government has made the appearance of wanting to stop the dismantling that is under way of the assistance allowance. However, the referral sent out last week shows that during the period of the two-year end, the mission to the authority, when a review is carried out, can only lead to fewer hours being granted to the insured person. And it is only conditions that adversely affect the individual that should be taken into account in the review. In a letter sent on Monday from Försäkringskassan to an insured person, the Government's decision has led to the following writing: As you have previously been informed about, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency temporarily halted the reconsideration of assistance compensation. We have now received new information that people who have changed circumstances will be investigated. Since the person concerned has had assistance at school, it counts as a changed relationship. My question to the Prime Minister is: What other safety nets does the government intend to propose to its authorities that they only decide whether they lead to deterioration for the individual?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-418	Madam President, I would like What letters have been sent out or not and details about it I cannot comment on. We have made a decision based on the judgments that have fallen and that change the decision of Försäkringskassan. We need to test how this might change our legislation. Probably the legislation needs to be changed. However, we must first review. During that period, a suspension shall be made for the two-year trial. That is what we have decided on. The answer to the question is, no others. We don't have any rules on how to reduce the outcome of the decisions. The answer is simple. There are no decisions about deteriorations, nor are they ordered.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-421	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! The challenges for general welfare are great. Both the proportion and the number of older and older people are increasing up to the 2040s, which is positive. More and more people are asking for a broad and cross-block tax settlement for patterns from 1990 to 1991 in which the main trade union organisations also participate. There is a need for fiscal policy that can ensure security and welfare, not least for our elderly. How does the Prime Minister view this?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-422	Madam President, I would like I am, of course, willing to discuss a broad cross-block agreement on tax reform. It is probably necessary to carry out a broader review after all these years. There have, of course, been changes in what was then a new system during several different governments and majorities in Parliament. There is much evidence that we need to do this, and of course I am prepared to do so. Our starting point is that the aim should not be to reduce tax revenues, but to be neutral. It will promote work and growth as well as climate-smart management of our resources. Taxes after viability are extremely important. These are some of our starting points, and on this basis we are absolutely prepared to carry out a broad review and possibly agree on a new tax system.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-425	Madam President, I would like Among the first decisions taken by this government was to abandon the basic requirement of 20 000 police officers in Sweden. Three years with Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister has meant that we now have fewer police officers. In addition to that, there are empty seats in police training. Only this year there are 200 empty seats. At the same time, we are now seeing the spread of crime in society. Human insecurity is increasing. My straight but fairly serious question to the Prime Minister is: Is he satisfied that insecurity is increasing in Sweden and that after three years we have fewer police officers?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-427	Madam President, I would like No, I am not satisfied until security increases in Sweden. It should be safe to live and live in Sweden. It is for this reason that we have turned around and are now making sure to provide more resources to the police and the police authorities. As I have said twice before in this House today, these are more resources than the Police Authority itself has requested. By 2024 we will have 10,000 more employees. There are a large number of police officers in it, but it can also be civilian forces that are needed. I think the Police Authority is better to judge this than the Moderates and Tomas Tobé. The Moderates should also be pleased that the government has accelerated the pace of education. There was far too little speed in police training in the past, which caused the situation we are now in. That is why we have soon doubled the pace and introduced two new police training courses. I think the Moderates should also be happy about this. What you didn't do when you were in power, we're doing now. Enjoy it!
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-432	Madam President, I would like The Prime Minister has made a tour around the country with the theme of security. Three weeks ago he was asked to visit my hometown Uppsala. In Uppsala city, the Prime Minister met municipal security guards, who have been hired to increase security in the centre because the police lack resources. He had to visit Gottsunda, which has been hit by stones and burned cars. I have recently done a similar tour myself, but only with the police in Uppsala. I've been involved in their day-to-day work. I've met police officers who are experienced, committed and very talented, despite the big dropouts and the low pay they have. The more people drop out, the tougher it gets for the Uppsala police who are left. It is more difficult to contribute to the security of the city, and it is more difficult to alleviate the unrest in Gottsunda. We have talked about salaries and police training. But my question to the Prime Minister is: what does the government do to lure back the police who have already quit?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-435	Madam President, I would like As for the police in Gottsunda, as well as in Kinna and Svenljunga, there are good and important discussions, where they express that they want improved conditions. There's nothing strange about that. That is why we are providing the Police Authority with resources to deal with this – more resources than has been requested. But we also give them a mission: to improve the conditions for the police and the employees of the authority. This includes salaries. This may apply to equipment and other conditions. We believe that these parties can handle this best so that they can be brought forward. Wages are undoubtedly part of this. As I said, we have begun a substantial increase in the number of police graduates. It's on. We're going to have two new police trainings. What is also said in the police is: we cannot do this ourselves. We must have a society that breaks long-term unemployment and where schools work, they say. This is a welfare issue. We need to work on this in parallel with the addition to the police.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-439	Madam President, I would like No one could have missed the Metoo rebellion. The silence has now been seriously broken about sexual harassment, sexism and sexual abuse. It's probably the biggest rebellion among women in 100 years. In 1917 it was a rebellion against hunger and for the right to vote. Today it is a rebellion against sexual abuse. How can the Prime Minister both in his role as Prime Minister and as one works in a preventive way so that there can be a change? It is so important and necessary to focus on the participation and commitment of men and, not least, on the great responsibility of men as a group, so that it cannot stop at the fact that all women have now shared their stories.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-441	Madam President, I would like I am also one of those who really hope and believe that the power of these calls will be truly social transformative. I am grateful that we have brought it to the surface. Of course, I deeply regret the individual people who have been exposed, but now we have a power of a very different kind from what we have had in the past. As politicians, we are tightening up the penalties for sexual crimes, as I said earlier. That's good. I am convinced that it will go through here in Parliament. But we also need more prevention. Preventive work takes place in schools, sports associations, in society at large, in political life, in parties – everywhere. Everywhere we go, we're gonna have to do more. But I now see that the force that this has brought about will help us to maintain this. We also have a duty as men. I usually say that we as men must understand that a man does not violate women. A real man respects women.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-444	Madam President, I would like Hand grenades, 50 shots of unloadings, 10 murders and over 30 gunshot wounds. This is the case for Malmö 2017, and the year is not yet over. The deadly violence in Malmö, calculated per 100,000 inhabitants, is the highest among the larger cities in the Nordic region and is about five times higher than the average in Western Europe. Malmö also has the largest number of people in the country who have been subjected to robbery. At the same time, safety surveys give an equally bleak picture. One in five Malmö residents renounces activities due to fear of crime. Three out of four Malmöers are concerned about being subjected to crime. All this is the case despite national reinforcements and the fact that more surveillance cameras have been put into service. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister think that the government's criminal policy has been successful for a city like Malmö?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-446	Madam President, I would like Work has begun, and we will not give up. We will not end it until we crack, not least, organised crime. It is nevertheless a good start to turn the trend from a far too low number of trained police officers to more educated police officers. This has happened during this period of government, as I have said before. It's closer to doubling. But we will have to do more. That's why we're going to have police training down there in southern Sweden. Then we'll get more people from that region who apply for police training, and then we'll get more cops. We're going into western Sweden too. We have tightened the laws, as I said, not least with regard to the weapons crimes, because it needs to be done. Those who go out with guns in their pocket should know that they won't be home for two years if they're taken. It is a very strong signal from society. We also make it easier for police and others to set up cameras for surveillance. In addition, we need a strong and solidarity-based welfare society that prevents the flow of crime. It is, however, a longer discussion.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-451	Madam President, I would like Thank you for allowing me to put questions to the Government as she participates in the debate. These are things that we always appreciate. I asked the Government two questions in my main speech. One concerned the detailed regulation of parental insurance, which we now have in the Committee on Employment, and the quota of parental insurance. We believe that it is important to have parental insurance and that there is some kind of security for workers in the EU. We're all for that. However, the fact that the European Union is going to tell us how many quota months we are going to have in parental insurance is very much against. I now see that the government is negotiating these issues at European level. How does the Government see us moving in this direction? The second issue concerned something that we are also negotiating in the Committee on Employment and to which we also say flatly no, namely the right to leave for the care of family members – an individual right to take five days' leave per year. This is an issue that is usually resolved by the social partners. It also costs money. How are we gonna finance this whole thing? What is the government's view of it?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-454	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Désirée Pethrus! Of course, I find it fun to come here and debate. As for regulated parental insurance, it is a minimum directive, as in many other matters. For decades, there have been areas where it was felt that the EU should have a minimum directive. This means that all citizens of the European Union should have a certain right, such as the right not to have to work 24 hours at a time but to take rest. Now we have begun to discuss having a kind of minimum directive for parental insurance. It is nothing new that the European Union has such discussions. Once there is a proposal, it will be treated like any other proposal and will come back to the Council and the Riksdag for decision. The same applies to the issue of care for family members and other issues that have arisen. Where should there be minimum directives? It is very possible that such a thing should not exist for the care of family members. We have not got that far at all. Nevertheless, there are certain rules that should be common as a minimum directive. This applies, for example, to the right of EU citizens to leave. I don't think it's weird. Having said that, we do not want any change to be made in the competences of the Member States, the Council and the Commission.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-458	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. As far as parental insurance is concerned, we think it is a good thing that it exists. In Sweden there is an individual right to a certain number of months. The European Union has said that there should be four, I believe, months to which each parent has the right. We do not have any views on this as a minimum right on the EU labour market. What we ask ourselves is why the EU should tell us whether to have one, two, three or four quota months. I think that's weird. In Sve Rige, you have the right to leave time to the other parent if one parent is not able to take out all his or her parental insurance. This means, in some cases, that if one parent is unable to take out the four months, the child is only supported by one parent for four months instead of eight months. We think that is the wrong way for Europe to go. On the second issue, there is no impact assessment. The ratio of parental insurance costs no money. However, the part dealing with the right to leave can cost the state or companies. I find it odd that there is no impact assessment of this, and I would like to hear a comment on it. Finally, it concerns the labour market authority which is on the table of the European Union and to which we have said no. We had the question in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. How does the Government see that the EU now wants to get involved in what is about our labour market model? We risk the EU coming in and deciding on minimum wages and how our labour market should work. I think it's strange. We have a regulatory framework, and of course we will follow that. Why should there be an EU authority to take over? We believe that there is already an opportunity to follow this up on the basis of the current regulatory framework.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-462	Madam President, I would like Let me start with the last question because we discussed it in the previous reply. The Commission has announced that it will submit a proposal for a labour market authority in the second quarter of 2018. It is likely that the form of the new authority will be influenced by its mandate and tasks. But it is not possible to say much about what the Commission intends and what they will propose. Therefore, we think it would have been good if Sweden had been able to influence this. Whatever happens, it is good for the development of the European Union that we always participate and influence even if we then do not intend to participate. We did the same with Eppo. We did not intend to participate, and there was a great deal of agreement in Parliament on this. But it was important for us to be involved and influence how the authority would act because it also affects Sweden. We therefore feel that we should have been able to influence this authority as well. However, we have taken note of Parliament's response in connection with the deliberations of the Committee on Employment on 21 November, and we will come back to Parliament for deliberations when we have received a concrete proposal from the Commission. With regard to the care of family members, and so on, I fully agree that proper impact assessments of the various proposals put forward must be carried out. But even here today there is no final proposal. The discussion on parental insurance is about minimum directives. I do not know if we have different views on this, but I and the government think it is positive that there are minimum directives for fundamental rights.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-467	Madam President, I would like In my question to Minister Linde, I would like to raise the issue of entrepreneurship and small business. An agenda for a united, stronger and more democratic Europe also includes a vibrant business community. Entrepreneurs, especially small businesses, continuously raise the need for regulatory changes and less burden. What is the Government doing to push forward on this issue? When I read the document, I see that there is a part between the lines on entrepreneurship and the need for entrepreneurship within the European Union. It's very important. But it is also important in this context to raise the needs of Swedish entrepreneurs and the need for regulatory changes. I would like comments on this.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-470	Madam President, I would like We have no other opinion. The only question is: What are regulatory simplifications, and what is the aggravation of rules? Let's drill on these issues. I am out there a lot talking to companies, open export centres and so on, and then I get this kind of question. We are therefore pushing questions about legislation being as simple as possible to comply with. But sometimes, for example, when it comes to the possibility of acting, it has to be the same rules in order to make the best use of export opportunities. It must, for example, be the same rules for the appearance of goods in order to exploit the power and opportunity of the whole internal market. This means, of course, that it becomes more difficult to comply with some rules, which then, in the next step, makes it easier to export throughout the market. As I mentioned in my speech, 70% of Swedish exports go to the internal market. That is why this is so extremely important. We are now pushing for the digital single market. There are also many rules that make it difficult in different ways, and we want opportunities to make it easier. But sometimes it is necessary to have common rules in order to achieve the best.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-473	Madam President, I would like A concrete issue in this context to facilitate digital behaviour, but also for the individual entrepreneur, and certainly also for customers, is a uniform and simpler system of VAT accounting. It can be implemented without in any way leading to a uniform tax system, because it is not something that we Moderates are in favour of. We certainly do not want to see a tax system at European level. On the other hand, the VAT treatment itself for entrepreneurs and small businesses included in this part can be facilitated. I know that this is an issue that is included in the Commission's work programme, and that is why I am raising it. I would like to make sure that the EU Minister will ensure that this issue is taken forward. Among other things, it is included in the tax committee's opinion in Parliament, where the committee welcomes proposals for simplification of VAT systems and accounts and believes that this is something that can be done at EU level.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-476	Madam President, I would like The French, German, Italian and Spanish finance ministers have jointly proposed a turnover tax on the turnover of companies in Europe in order to tax, for example, IT companies. The angle we want is that tax evasion and harmful tax competition must be countered. With regard to the tax on digital companies, for example, which is one of the things mentioned in the work programme, we have said that we should not have a specific line but wait until the OECD gets a global line. We are analysing the issue, and we have had slightly different views in the European Union. However, this is the line that both the Minister for Finance and I have put forward. I understand that the issue is also about VAT issues in more detail. I cannot, quite simply, leave the question to the Minister for Finance and hope that she will be able to respond.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-479	Madam President, I would like We live in a troubled time. We are living in a time of increased demands for protectionism. We are living at a time when Russia is adopting a more authoritarian regime. We are living in a time of war in Europe, and I am thinking of Ukraine. We are living at a time when developments in Turkey, a large country on the edge of Europe, are characterised by worrying trends: journalists and oppositionists are being imprisoned. We are living at a time with a President of the United States who is unpredictable and acts in a way that creates concern around the world. We are living at a time when the UK has chosen to leave EU cooperation. All of this is a cloud of unrest in the sky, and there is every reason to think about how Sweden acts in such a time. But it is also important to remember that there are light points in the darkness. One such point of light is the government's proposal for a trade agreement with Canada, which came today. It strengthens free trade and counteracts the trend towards protectionism. Another point of light is the active European policy of the Social Democratic-led government, which has now been able to present results after results in a short time. The Gothenburg Summit is a very clear example of this. The social pillar is another example. We also have the Posting of Workers Directive, which the government has actively worked to change, so that you can make demands on Swedish salaries in Sweden. There are bright points here. In a dark time, it is important to see that there are also opportunities and options to counteract the difficult or dark parts of the development that exist. The EU is now recovering. The EU is in the fifth year of economic recovery. Growth for the EU as a whole exceeds that of the US over the last two years. Over 8 million new jobs have been created. These are other bright signs that exist in the world. The Commission has visions of increasing confidence and trust. At the meeting in Rome in March, EU Heads of State or Government announced a desire to make the EU stronger and more resilient through greater unity, solidarity and respect for common rules. If this is to emerge as light points in the future, it is extremely important that all countries do their homework and that all countries contribute constructively. And, Madam President, all countries also include Sweden. It's important to understand that. We believe in cooperation as a success factor in making the world a better place for people to live their lives. We believe that there are challenges that are too great for individual countries. We believe that free trade is something that can and should benefit everyone and builds prosperity and development. We believe in this, unlike the reactionary and destructive forces that want to drive development back. They want to crawl behind their own borders and look out suspiciously at the outside world. They want to limit our trade with the outside world. They contribute to the development of our work and do not see the potential of cooperation. Such reactionary forces must be resisted wherever they arise, whether in Sweden or in Europe or elsewhere in the world. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, there are tendencies that this reactionary world view spreads also in Sweden and beyond the extreme parties that have normally been quite alone with their view of European cooperation in the Swedish parliament. Within the Moderate Party, a nationalist and anti-European rhetoric is increasingly heard, which is very ill-suspecting. The Swedish right seems to move from a Europe-positive, central European, Christian-democratic position to a reactionary, English Tory position. The emergence of such currents in the leading bourgeois party is deeply disturbing, especially in the light of the fact that here, with various announcements, cooperation with the Swedish Democrats has been opened up. The combination of a reactionary, inward-looking policy, which excludes cooperation with the outside world, and the opening up of cooperation with a reactionary extreme party is extremely ominous. If we are to achieve a more united, stronger and more democratic Europe, all the forces with progressive and forward-looking policies must stick together. This is more important now than ever. We Social Democrats want Sweden to participate fully, actively and constructively in EU cooperation. This should be a policy on which the parties standing up for EU cooperation could agree. The need for cooperation at appropriate and relevant levels has not diminished. The need to make Europe a citizens' Europe is urgent. The fact that the social dimension is crucial to achieving this should be clear to those who seriously want to address the challenges we face. For those who believe that freedom of movement is a positive thing and of vital importance, there is no excuse for obstinate this work. European cooperation creates prosperity and cohesion between people. Increasing growth and competitiveness, while keeping our societies together, requires social reforms. If you are in favour of Europe, you cannot be against making Europe more decent. How difficult can it be, Madam President? On 21 November, the Committee on Employment, Social Affairs and Citizenship, which I am a member of, had a discussion with the government on the announced proposal for a European Employment Authority. The aim was to give the government a mandate to carry out active advocacy work on how to design a new authority. We share the government's assessment and support the government's willingness to work actively to influence the shape of the new Europe that is now emerging. We regret that the committee does not want to see a constructive approach for Sweden to be able to influence issues – in this case, it is about a possible new authority – and thus protect Swedish interests. We Social Democrats do not think it is a reasonable policy to sit and watch. We want to use every opportunity to influence constructively. We therefore propose in our reservation that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in its examination of the Commission's work programme, should highlight the importance of Sweden influencing the proposal for a possible European Labour Market Authority at an early stage. If Sweden is to influence the drafting of such a proposal, we must be active in the process. Once a proposal is on the table, we will take a position on it. To say no today, before we have seen what the proposal looks like and before we have used the opportunities we have to influence it in a direction consistent with the views we agree on in Sweden, is not to actively and constructively participate in the development of the future Europe cooperation. We want to ensure that the Swedish labour market model is not in any way affected by such a proposal, that the principle of subsidiarity fully applies, that our view that a new authority in this area should have a clear added value in order for us to be able to say yes and that the authority's powers should focus on cross-border aspects. It should not have a mandate to carry out independent checks. It is also important that the Agency should not be given any role in interpreting national collective agreements or taking its own initiative for new legislation in the field of labour market. As I said, it should be stressed that it is urgent to respect the division of competences between the EU and the Member States, national labour market models and social protection systems and the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. Obviously, such an authority should be financed within the existing financial framework. These are Swedish positions that we should be able to agree on in the Swedish Parliament. At least the parties that stand up for European cooperation should be able to agree. It is important to remember that it is possible to influence the EU. The Swedish Government has proved this: When you took office, one of the first things you did was to actively start working to develop a posting directive, so that you could make demands on Swedish wages in Sweden. For eight years we were confronted with claims from the bourgeois government that this was impossible. However, the Swedish Government has proven that it can actively influence Europe. If you actually do something and want something, you can also do something. With this I agree to reservation 4.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-503	Madam President, I would like How hard can it be, Patrik Björck? A story doesn't become more true just because Patrik Björck stands and fabs up something in the speaker's chair. The Moderates have never said that they should cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. I say this now, because the debate is broadcast on television. There should be no doubt whatsoever about that. I expect a representative of the Social Democrats to actually distinguish between what is a lie and what is the truth, what our party leader has said and what is not.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-504	Madam President, I would like I believe that Margareta Cederfelt is possibly the only one in this country who does not feel a great doubt about the moderates' approach to the Swedish Democrats. This is a process that has been going on in the media over and over again. The former party leader could not get anywhere without trying to answer these questions. And the current party leader has inherited the questions. Every time the question is asked and the answer will be more confused. Unfortunately, Madam President, there is a great deal of doubt as to how the Moderates relate to the Swedish Democrats. The issue of EU cooperation is important. If you listen to the debate here today, you can see that the Christian Democrats also have a negative and destructive attitude towards European cooperation. We heard the representative of the Christian Democrats, Madam President, say flatly no to virtually everything. However, there is a new tone among the Moderates on European issues that is deeply worrying. At the same time, when you see that they cannot give clear information about the cooperation with a strong reactionary and European-critical party like the Swedish Democrats, it is clear that there is reason to be extra hesitant. No, there is no reason for me to have any comments on what is a lie or truth in this. I just note that there is a great deal of uncertainty as to where the Moderates stand when it comes to their attitude towards the Swedish Democrats. I note that this also applies, of course, to the Christian Democrats.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-507	Madam President, I would like How hard can it be? I wonder how many times Anna Kinberg Batra and then Ulf Kristersson will repeat with emphasis: We do not cooperate with the Swedish Democrats in the Swedish Parliament. This has been repeated time and again. But Patrik Björck would like to sound out something else. Unfortunately, I have to say: then the truth falls between the branches. I don't think this is nice. It's very bad. Madam President, I would like I think that Patrik Björck should stick to what is actually said by the people he quotes and not fabricate anything based on what is written in some evening newspapers.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-510	Madam President, I would like How many times should the question be asked? I suppose I could give you a simple answer: until it is answered. The reason why the question is repeatedly asked, as Margareta Cederfelt rightly points out, is that it is not answered. On the day that the question is answered, one may well find another question to ask. I'm not the one asking the question time and again. It's the country's entire journalistic corps. The answer will be: The question will probably be asked until it is answered. But it was just one part. The second part is the extremely negative and destructive European policy of the Moderates today. You say no to pretty much everything. It uses the subsidiarity instrument in the Swedish Parliament to try to obscure the substance of the matter – we had an example of it in my committee this spring – and not for subsidiarity testing, for which it is for. This is one of the many examples of the Moderates moving in European politics in a very worrying way. It is not just me, Madam President, who takes note of this and is concerned. Anyone who follows Sweden's development – business and others – has reason to be extremely concerned about Moderates' attitude on European issues. European policy is simply not reliable anymore.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-513	Madam President, I would like It is good that the work programme is discussed and presented. As my colleagues have well told us, we have a moderate line and also a broad turnout in the Alliance. I wanted to discuss the issue of a European Employment Authority. But I cannot help noticing what my wooden brother Patrik Björck just recently said. For the person who is familiar with Swedish politics, there can be no doubt that the Moderates took a stand very early on for Swedish EU membership and since then have been in favour of it. It is still in favour, and passionate about, of European cooperation, of the four freedoms, of increased trade, of increased growth and of European prosperity. Social reforms are therefore also welcome. The Alliance government was the government that was most active of the Swedish governments that existed in EU cooperation. It was very clear. We received clear commendation. A government that was so active in European politics had not been seen. This came from the Swedish Commissioner for European Affairs, then Margot Wallström, who is now in the government that we might think should do more at European level and do it better at European level. But there is a big difference, Madam President, between being in favour of Europe and saying yes to everything being at European level. We do not think that everything should be at European level. We think that Europe should be good. We think that Europe should do the right thing, and we think that Europe should do those things very well. But we are not buying the almost federalist conclusion that I think Patrik Björck is breathing: that just because you are European-positive, you must think that Europe should deal with everything between heaven and earth. The Moderates do not think that labour market policy is an area to be decided at EU level. A rbetsmarket policy is national decision-making competence, as it is called. We decide on this in the Swedish Parliament. That is how we think it should continue to be. I, too, am a little worried about developments in the European Union. Of course, I find Brexit boring. But one should probably think about what drives those currents. There are discussions about both Brexit and other countries where you become more Eurosceptic. I think this is because it believes that the European Union may be dealing with something wrong. That is why I think it is all the more important that we sharpen the EU and do it much better in those areas where the EU should be strong. However, I am concerned that the European Commission is almost tone deaf when, instead, it wants to do the opposite and increase the EU's influence in areas where the European Union today does not really exist. Then I can say something about labour market policy and this with a labour market authority. There should be discussions here. It should still be national decision-making competence. But they say it's going to be signed up to documents. This should give rise to legislation at EU level. And now we want to set up a labour market agency. You don't just do that for fun, you want it to have a role. Once you have taken step one, it becomes much easier to take step two. In this situation, I am surprised that some representatives almost want to hand over part of Swedish labour market policy and what is called the Swedish model to decision-making at EU level. That is why we reported a disagreement in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, which in turn gained a majority and became the committee's line. Together with the other alliance parties, the Moderates put forward a concrete proposal in which we said no to the Labour Market Authority. This is a very early stage. As described by the Socialist side, we say no immediately. If we do not want a labour market authority, it must be better to say no at the outset than to wait until the proposal has been tabled and adopted and then say that we do not want such an authority? This is where we have the chance to influence. If we have an active government that works hard, builds alliances and says that this is not a good solution, we can achieve success and ensure – or at least do what we can for this – that such an authority does not become a reality. If this authority should then become a reality, one can of course – or should at least be – hold several balls in the air. It is not the case that there is a ban on trying to ensure that the effects are small if the sad thing happens that this authority becomes a reality. As far as we are concerned, we are extremely clear: this is national decision-making competence. A labour market authority at European level is not something we want. We say no, and we're clear. There is no doubt about what the moderate line of European policy is. If Patrik Björck finds this difficult to see, I think he should listen to the debates conducted by Moderates and read the moderate documents. Then he will clearly see that the Moderates have, will have and have had an extremely clear and rigorous line in European politics. It is in favour of the European Union, but it is very clear that the European Union should do the right thing.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-527	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld says that the moderate previous government was very active in European politics. Let me give just one example. The Laval ruling fell in 2007, and in all the years leading up to the turn of the government in 2014, I repeatedly asked government representatives – both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Labour – about what was done in the EU to tear up this wrong legislation, which seriously damaged the Swedish labour market. Every time they admitted – and in that way were honest, Madam President; I can give them – that they did nothing. They said: we are doing nothing, because we cannot – if we were to start touching this directive, it would probably be worse for Swedish employees. I have heard this repeated many times. Nothing was done, admitted that you did nothing and said that it was not possible to do anything. Then, the other year, we had a new government, Madam President, which immediately began to do things. This was a government that wanted a lot and could do a lot. One might think that three years is a long time, Madam President, but in these contexts, when it comes to these complex issues and concerns 28 countries, it is an enormous achievement of the Swedish Government to address this concern in three years' time, so that we can re-establish Swedish wages in Sweden. In fact, the world is so complicated that if labour market policy is to be a national area – as Christian Barenfeld says he wants, Madam President – we must also ensure that there are instruments for this. Since the Swedish labour market model is based on the fact that trade unions can demand collective agreements, this was absolutely crucial to correct. The Social Democratic-led government managed to do that.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-532	Madam President, I would like It was definitely the case that the Alliance Government was extremely active in European policy. For example, ask the former EU Commissioner Margot Wallström, who you, Patrik Björck, are relatively familiar with politically. She was very clear that she had never seen a government that was so active in the EU context. The same applies to the labour market. Me and Patrik Björck stand here in different speaking chairs, and we do this for a reason: We think differently politically. It is clear that an alliance government does not pursue Patrik Björck's line – I think that is entirely reasonable. I work every day to ensure that we get a government that does not run Patrik Björck's line in the future, because we have different views on labour market policy. However, we want order in Swedish labour market policy. We want an open labour market policy within the EU, with clear regulations. We also have that – we do not have a lot of people who are in Sweden without having collective agreements on a legal basis. Since then, there are always people who commit crimes, but there are regulations and legislation in this area. This is one of the reasons why we reject these elements of labour market policy. What Patrik Björck talks about and is horrified about is in many situations that there are already regulations for. Neither do I and the Moderates in the future have any ambition to satisfy Patrik Björck, because we have different political views on these issues.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-537	Madam President, I would like We have heard a few times during this debate Christian Holm Barenfeld and his comrades in the Alliance talk about saying no. Saying no also did the former bourgeois government when it came to creating better protection for employees. The bourgeois government fixed a Swedish employment protection system that was so bad that even the European Commission reacted and said it violated EU law. There was employment protection for temporary workers where it was possible to stack jobs on each other. It was not only the trade unions, the employees and the opposition here in the Swedish parliament who wanted the bourgeois government to correct this. With the threat of a penalty payment, the European Commission imposed on the bourgeois-led government at least the same level of employment protection for Swedish employees as for minimum requirements in Europe. What, then, did the moderate government respond? The government replied just as Christian Barenfeld is doing here today, Madam President: it said no, no and no. It seems to be a well-rehearsed line. This debate between us is about whether or not it is possible to influence European policy. The important thing to remember, Madam President, is that the first thing that is needed to influence is that you have the will to influence. If you do not have the will to influence, it is of course extremely difficult. But it is not enough to have the will to influence, but also to have the ability to influence and the ability to work hard. That is why the Social Democratic-led government is achieving results.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-542	Madam President, I would like It is always refreshing to debate with Patrik Björck! We pushed. We were active. We're active. We are not in a government position today, but instead we are active in Parliament. We say 'yes' to European cooperation. We say yes to good proposals. We say no– and we will continue to say no– to bad proposals, Patrik Björck. The situation we had before the Laval judgment, I don't want it back. Patrik Björck's trade union friends from the Buildings stood and shouted go home, to the seconded workers when they came to work. I thought this was shameful. We don't say go home, and we don't want people to say it. Let's say go to work. We will push for Swedish workers to be able to work in Sweden and in other EU countries and for us to have posted people. We depend on people coming to our country and working. We have a good choice for our citizens to travel around or live in different parts of Europe and work for longer or shorter periods. There are good regulations for labour market protection. I do not believe that the average citizen can relate to the reality picture that Patrik Björck paints from the time of the alliance government. It was not chaos in the Swedish labour market. It was all-time- high in many numbers. Then there was a financial crisis, but it was a financial crisis that Sweden managed fantastically well out of. This debate was about the EU's labour market programmes. It is clear that the Alliance and a majority in the Swedish Parliament say no to the establishment of a European labour market policy and a labour market authority. Patrik Björck, the Social Democrats, and others say yes to moving over that policy. There are clear differences in Swedish politics.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-550	Madam President, I would like As the President said, it is Area of Expenditure 23 Areella industries, rural areas and food that we are going to debate now. Madam President, I would like There is a clear ideological dividing line in Swedish politics. This is also reflected in this budget, which we are now debating and which today deals with the agricultural, rural and food sectors. For the Moderates and the alliance parties, it goes without saying that the development power, growth potential and employment opportunities of the whole country should be exploited. This should be done in a way that creates economic, social and environmental sustainability. We want our green industries, agriculture, forestry and livestock production to grow and have the opportunity to create many new jobs and growth throughout Sweden. We want to take advantage of rural opportunities and conditions. Sweden can produce much more food, much more forest and many more jobs all over Sweden. We'll take care of that. Madam President, I would like First, I want to lift up what I think is good. It is good that we have got a food strategy that clearly indicates that we will increase Swedish food and food production and strengthen Swedish competitiveness. I have long worked for a Swedish food strategy, so I welcome it. I also support the many suggestions and reservations of Moderates to improve agriculture and green industries in Sweden. However, for time to come, Madam President, I only call for reservations 2 and 3. The Moderates' draft budget is a coherent whole. As the Parliament in step one, the Framework Decision, has supported the Government's proposal for a financial framework for the state budget and a focus on budgetary policy, we are not taking part in the current decision on the distribution of appropriations in the field of expenditure 23, but are referring in that part to our specific opinion. Madam President, I would like What, then, separates our budgets? Expenditure area 23 benefits about SEK 19 billion. What distinguishes the Moderates' budget from the S-budget and the government's budget is basically about the S-government wanting to increase subsidies and taxes while we do not want to increase taxes but instead make sure to lower them in order to increase competitiveness. Madam President, I would like Instead, we Moderates want to reduce the tax on diesel for green industries in order to increase competitiveness. We also want to make efforts to increase exports of Swedish food. Sweden's farmers must be given opportunities and opportunities to participate and fight on the international food market. Sweden's agriculture and forestry must be given the opportunity to grow and develop. This is why we want to strengthen the conditions for entrepreneurship, trade and competitiveness so that more jobs can be created throughout the country. The Swedish government must provide better conditions for this to succeed. It is about lower taxes, reduced bureaucracy, reduced regulatory burden and the state and society taking on the commitments they take to avoid hampering development and growth. Otherwise, this possibility is hampered by unnecessarily long processing times, late EU payments and new taxes. Of course, EU payments must also be paid on time. Today, the situation is completely unreasonable for many farmers, who have to wait several years for their money from the Swedish Board of Agriculture. This is totally unacceptable, and the government should have acted and resolved this. Madam President, I would like After the food strategy, the reality that many of us believed in, that now the government would really take the next phase and implement the strategy, was a question of how we strengthen competitiveness and increase Swedish food production. This is where Swedish politics differ. Instead, the government intends to raise taxes, and new taxes are planned for rural areas. While we Moderates believe in the policy's obligations to remove barriers for people and businesses so that they can grow and create more jobs, the government parties believe in new political support and new detailed regulations. The food chain in Sweden has great growth potential. In addition, it maintains high quality with low levels of plant protection products, high levels of animal welfare and low use of antibiotics. Madam President, I would like For us Moderates, it is obvious that we need both organic farming and conventional agriculture. Both should have the opportunity to grow in Sweden. Instead, the S-government believes in political governance by forcing Sweden's area to 30 per cent be organically certified and 60 per cent of public food to be organically produced by 2030. Madam President, I would like The politics, that is, S and MP in this situation, want to control what we are to produce in Sweden and what we are to eat. This policy belongs in the old Soviet Union and in Eastern Europe, not in Sweden. Instead, we want both organic and conventional production to grow in Sweden without political touchsticks and new detailed regulations. Madam President, I would like It is not enough just to listen to what people in rural areas say, but also to hear what they say. The green industries will grow in Sweden, but then you cannot burden those who will live and live in the countryside with higher fuel taxes, as the government proposes. We cannot introduce new planned taxes on lorry transport which increase transport and reduce the competitiveness of Sweden's companies. What rural areas need instead is lower taxes, long-term rules and less bureaucracy, increased confidence in the future, security in politics so that people dare to invest and invest in increased food production. Madam President, I would like Instead, we moderates lower the diesel tax by 50 øre per litre to increase the competitiveness of green industries. A key factor in strengthening competitiveness is also to halt the strict implementation of new EU rules. How is it that Sweden should always go one step ahead, go a little further than our European collego r? This puts our competitiveness, our companies and our jobs in Sweden at a disadvantage. A Swedish government must also protect Sweden's interests at EU level. Madam President, I would like Time and again, we see the government squandering the possibilities. Glyfosat was such an issue where one thing was said in Sweden but acted in the opposite direction in the negotiations. This does not impress. Other examples are how the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate has banned and stopped plant protection products in Sweden that are permitted and necessary in Europe, which threatens Swedish production and at the same time benefits imports. This is contrary to increased food production in Sweden. That is not how we can work, Madam President. This does not hold, and it endangers our jobs, our companies and our strength and growth in Sweden. The Swedish government must stand up for Swedish agriculture and forestry. Madam President, I would like We also want to focus on tougher and clearer requirements in the procurements in public kitchens so that more people have the opportunity to eat our high-quality Swedish food. Here it is important that public purchasers really assume their responsibilities in the procurement process, with proper follow-up and then an evaluation. This is necessary if we are to succeed – and we will. Through public kitchens, we also want to increase the demand for game meat, which is both climate-smart and environmentally friendly. That is why we want to make it easier to make wild boar meat and other game meat more accessible in public kitchens. This is why we are investing in our budget in a pilot project in which the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Food Administration are tasked with building a strong infrastructure for the management of game meat. Madam President, I would like The government's policy of investing in the countryside with one hand and taking back the more with the other hand is neither reasonable nor honest. It is claimed that it spends about 1 billion more on its budget than we do in the spring. But what do you plan to take with your other hand? Yes, it's multiplying. There we are talking about new fuel taxes – SEK 800 million for the indexation of petrol and diesel. We are talking about truck taxes that can cost Sweden's companies and rural areas SEK 4– 10 billion. We are talking about aviation taxes that will jeopardise our regional airports and reduce the attractiveness of developing the whole of Sweden. It's about at least 1 billion. New reservations are planned. Political control of production is planned with new rules that limit the possibilities of producing more Swedish food. Less money is being given to our roads, which are necessary for rural areas to function. However, new high-speed trains are planned, which according to all calculations are unprofitable. Instead of maintaining and maintaining the existing railways and expanding them, we intend to invest in this – the one on which we depend and which must work. The fact that the Social Democrats believe that 175 million for emergency work, clearing sly in overgrown hiking trails and in mismanaged state reserves, would be the solution to rural problems is just embarrassing. Madam President, I would like With our policy, we Moderates intend to improve the conditions for producing more Swedish food in our fields, which creates jobs, while the Social Democrats with their policies plan to clear sly on the closed fields. The choice is yours, listeners and voters– do you want a living countryside with increased food production or a countryside that grows again and dies of new taxes and regulations in social democratic policy? There are more problems in rural areas that need to be highlighted. Today we have a wolf population that is considerably larger than the parliament has once decided on. It hampers the thoughts we have with the food strategy to increase food production in the country. It inhibits people who want to get domesticated, and it hampers hunting in rural areas. Of course we must have a wolf tribe, but it must be reasonable so that the countryside can cope with it. A question to the Social Democrats: how many wolves do you think we need to have a living countryside? Madam President, I would like We Moderates want to move the wolf issue and game management to a new wildlife agency, but the government opposes this. The wolf should also be moved from the EU red list to the hunting game list. Here, too, the government has not delivered anything. The government opposes small-scale hydropower in rural areas. Although contrary to the Energy Agreement, the government has not facilitated the licensing of small power plants. This now threatens the old mills, power stations and sawmills in the countryside. We Moderates want to lighten the beach shelter so that more people can build and live by our lakes. This would create jobs and growth throughout the country. The government has done nothing to facilitate such construction. That Swedish farmers should have to wait for EU payments is completely unreasonable. Another question is Lantmäteriet. Today you have to wait a year and a half to get an execution on a building, which is completely unreasonable. Of course, the government should have done something about this. We Moderates want to allow farm sales, to which the Social Democrats and the Green Party say no. It could provide many new jobs in rural areas. We have great potential to increase our food production in Sweden and our exports of food. With increased Swedish food production, we also become self-sufficient if we encounter a barrier or war. The Moderates believe in and want to develop the green industries. Finally, I would like to reiterate that I think the food strategy was good. It indicates that we will increase food production in Sweden and strengthen the competitiveness of the green industries. But if it is to succeed in Sweden, Madam President, we need a completely new government that really wants that.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-584	Madam President, I would like Since the financial framework has already been decided by Parliament, we in the Swedish Democrats will refrain from taking part in the decision on the Committee on Environment and Agriculture's proposal for appropriations under paragraph 2 of the report. Instead, we choose to give a specific opinion with our draft budgets. We now have a red-green socialist government that is in its fourth year – the parliamentary year that precedes the 2018 elections. Let us all note that such a budget is usually characterised by electoral frenzy and unfulfilled promises, regardless of the political colour of the government. This budget is hardly an exception. Madam President, I would like It can be noted that the plant protection product glyphosate in our Nordic climate is an absolute necessity for many conventional soil users. A ban would mean that Swedish food production would continue to fall while cereal cultivation costs would be higher than they are today. The government's handling of the issue of glyphosate but also GMOs in the European Commission clearly shows that the government's environmental policy and positive development for agriculture are directly incompatible. At the same time, large resources are being invested in the government's budget in transforming conventional agriculture into organic farming, which is yet another proof of unimagined environmental populism with less environmental benefit. We are of the opinion that the market should govern the proportion of agriculture that should be organic, not the state. We believe that Sweden needs to increase its food production. The long-term objective must be that the food consumed in Sweden should also be produced here to the greatest extent possible. The Swedish Democrats therefore provide additional funds in measures to strengthen a competitive Swedish food sector. Madam President, I would like Despite a current boom, Sweden has a relatively high unemployment rate for immigrants with low or no education. In the political debate, two main proposals are made to get this right. One proposal is to train the newly arrived immigrants. The second proposal is to reduce the thresholds into the Swedish labour market in various ways by reducing requirements or wages. In its eagerness to shovel over the major problems posed by immigration and the lack of integration, the government is putting budgetary resources into ineffective labour market projects and so-called simple jobs. One example is the investment in green jobs aimed at the Swedish Forestry Board and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The Government's eagerness to conceal unemployment among newcomers has gone so far as to be willing to cover the entire salary cost and obliges authorities to cooperate with the Employment Service to find out jobs. Nowadays, a wrist fee is also included for each person. Despite all these economic incentives, the employment rate of foreign born SCBs remains 62.1%. According to SCB, employed means two hours of work per week or equivalent studies in SFI, Swedish for immigrants. Unfortunately, new arrivals as a group do not have a relevant knowledge or competence to enter the Swedish labour market. Sweden is a knowledge nation and should remain so, we think. For years, Swedish companies, authorities and organisations have been involved in rationalising simpler jobs through, among other things, the possibilities of digitalisation. Within the envelope 1:1 Forests Board and 1:2 Operations for forestry, we therefore reject budgetary resources for the government's green jobs. Madam President, I would like The emergence of the key biotopes concept has become a problem for many forest owners. The original purpose of the Forest Board's mission to inventory key biotopes was to acquire knowledge of how forest areas for official protection could be prioritised. But the present situation is reminiscent of a sneaky variant of socialist collectivization. These forests and associated environmental values have not only come out of thin air. Generations of forest management, know-how and farming have led to the fantastic development of Swedish forests. The current situation is as follows: the industry cannot purchase wood from forests classified as possible key biotopes, based on the requirements of the certification bodies. At the same time, there is no system or financial compensation, as a financial settlement with the landowner requires that the biotope be protected in a formal agreement. Although the Swedish Forest Board decides not to provide formal protection for a possible key biotope, it remains unchanged in the list of key biotopes, which in practice leads to a logging ban. Here I can mention the 60-year-old forest owner from Örnsköldsvik in Ångermanland, who was recently fined SEK 40 000 after felling a key biotope in his own forest – a biotope that was not formally protected in any agreement. To add new funds to biotop inventory, as the government now wants, is directly provocative to Swedish forest owners as long as the issue of compensation or the management of non-protected biotopes has not been resolved. The Swedish democrats therefore say no to additional funding for the biotop inventory. Madam President, I would like Sweden's level of self-sufficiency, i.e. the value of the food we produce in relation to consumption, has fallen dramatically since EU entry and is currently at around 50%. Some studies show that it is even lower. It is an unacceptablely low level. The Swedish Democrats budget for a grazing allowance for grazing cows of SEK 1 000 per dairy cow per year. This is one way of compensating for the competitive disadvantage of Swedish dairy farmers vis-à-vis other countries in the internal market as a result of improved animal welfare and grazing requirements. In addition, we want to strengthen funding for the Swedish Food Agency and allocate additional budgetary resources to the Government's investment in a competitive food sector. The Swedish Democrats also want to increase the refund of fuel tax for agriculture, so that Swedish farmers reach the same level of taxation as Danish farmers. In Denmark, energy used in agricultural holdings receives a tax reduction of 98.2% of taxes on oil, coal and gas. The tax on diesel for Danish farmers after tax reduction amounts to approximately 7.3 øre per litre. We in the Swedish Democrats therefore choose to increase the refund of fuel tax for agriculture and forestry to a level corresponding to the Danish level. Tax on fuel is an important source of revenue for the state. But the loss of income is manageable, while the competitiveness of agriculture needs to be strengthened. Madam President, I would like On September 9, 2018, there are elections in Sweden. Real political developments have rocked block politics and thus the whole political landscape. In such a situation, with questions about future governments and the political uncertainty that follows, Swedish food production faces major challenges. These are challenges that need to be met through better conditions and improved competitiveness for rural industries. This is a policy that we in the Swedish Democrats are pursuing.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-609	Madam President, I would like We are seeing in Sweden today an ever-clearing regional cleavage. It is about a division between people and places, between those who feel confident in the future and feel involved in our society and those who feel forgotten and removed. At the same time as some towns grow and develop, many smaller towns have suffered reductions in the wake of globalisation, the financial crisis and the recession. A major challenge for Sweden and an important task for the Center Party is therefore to break this regional split. To give the whole country the opportunity to grow, a strong employment and entrepreneurial policy is needed. For rural areas, not least, the conditions for green industries are very important. They create jobs in both their own and surrounding industries, while at the same time forming the basis for a climate-smart transformation of Swedish society. It is therefore important to safeguard the competitiveness and conditions of the green industries. In 2017, three important processes affecting rural areas and their businesses have been ongoing and in some cases also reached important milestones. These are the food strategy, the rural survey and the national forestry programme. Six months have passed since the Swedish Parliament discussed the Government's food strategy and decided that Swedish food production will increase. The budget presented by the government for 2018 is thus an important indicator of how the government intends to achieve its food policy objectives in concrete terms. There are some good elements in the government's budget, such as investments in plant breeding and exports, but unfortunately, this time too, there are measures that strengthen the profitability at farm level and in the short term. The Diese lease payment is eaten up by indexing diesel tax and erodes competitiveness step by step. In order to strengthen profitability at farm level, the Center Party wants to increase the refund and index it. At the same time, we in the Center Party see that it is important to work for the vision of fossil-free agriculture. We therefore want to introduce a biofuel bonus to make it more attractive with renewables in the tractor tank. We also want to abolish the employer's levy for dairy farmers over three years, to give a for Sweden important industry the opportunity to recover and build itself stronger. However, in order for Swedish dairy farmers to compete with other European farmers in the long term, production conditions need to be reviewed, and it will also be important in the forthcoming negotiations on agricultural policy in the EU to drive the possibility of replacing in addition to practice so that Sweden can introduce, for example, a grazing premium. In its budget proposal, the Government once again takes up the wording of introducing a kilometre tax, and has since previously investigated cadmium tax and increased pesticide tax. The Center Party has been calling for a stop to increased excise duties on agriculture until 2020, and we believe that the government, if it is serious about increasing food production and strengthening competitiveness, should do the same instead of flaging for further cost increases. In connection with the Riksdag's handling of the food strategy, the Riksdag also issued an announcement on promotion assignments for authorities. Regrettably, many entrepreneurs in the food chain feel that government contacts often hamper rather than contribute to the development of businesses. Crown bird's scrawny plans for a slaughterhouse in Kristianstad are an example of a lack of investment as a result of too much processing of the permit. As the government now writes its regulatory letters, it is therefore of the utmost importance that the government really follows the announcement and gives a clear mandate to the relevant authorities to contribute to the achievement of the food strategy's objectives. If Swedish food production is really to increase, we need clear political leadership. Long-term reduced costs are needed in order to hire instead of short-term investment in green jobs. Targeted environmental support is needed for the concrete environmental benefit of each farm rather than general production support for specific organic production. Cost reductions and simplifications are needed in the farm rather than increased government budgets at the expense of companies. There are objectives, but now it is a matter of policy action. Madam President, I would like Almost a year has passed since the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development presented its final report. These are 75 proposals submitted by a single committee, ranging from infrastructure and government organisation to the provision of skills. There are now high expectations around the country that the rural bill that the government has been talking about will be delivered in March, as promised. One of the most important ways of creating the conditions for jobs, growth and access to welfare services in rural areas is to make better use of digital development. In order for the digitalisation of the whole of Sweden to take further speed, the expansion of fibre and other modern communication technologies is required throughout the country. Under the Rural Programme, the Alliance government set aside a record amount of money for an increased roll-out of broadband in rural areas. In order for the ongoing digitalisation of the whole of Sweden to continue, the Center Party has, at each budget point, allocated additional funds for an improved broadband infrastructure throughout the country, and we have done so this year as well. Unfortunately, at the same time, we see how long processing times stop fiber expansion, and it is of the utmost importance that the government acts so that the funds allocated really have an effect. Madam President, I would like The third process that has been going on in 2017 is the work on the national forest programme. The Minister for Rural Development and the Government have said on a number of occasions that the work under way will lead to a bill. First, the plan was for it to be presented in 2017, and now we hope that it will be able to come in 2018. Forests are extremely important for the Swedish economy. It creates jobs in rural areas and is of great importance for our transition to a sustainable and long-term bioeconomy. At the same time, it is important to protect valuable nature and endangered species so that we strengthen biodiversity in forests and soils. However, in order for nature conservation to be sustainable in the long term, it needs to be based on the legitimacy and participation of those concerned. With ownership, a responsibility and an interest in long-term management of the resource you own. Engaged landowners and users are the most sustainable way to care for our nature. Valuable nature may need more protection, but it must be clear that owners or users are actually replaced for the restrictions imposed. The cost of the measure must also be proportionate to the environmental benefits of conservation measures, and it is important that landowners and users are actually involved in the whole process. The Center Party has repeatedly highlighted the need for a revision of the Species Protection Regulation in order to strengthen, among other things, legal certainty. The fact that responsible authorities and also court decisions have identified the need for a predictable, legally secure and effective process points to shortcomings in current practice. We also see examples of reserve formations where landowners have not been involved in the process at all, but simply run over. Sometimes it has gone so far that the governor has had to go in and stop the reserve formation because the landowners have been completely powerless in the process. The Center Party therefore believes that a shift in nature conservation is needed in order to improve the functioning of nature conservation. We need a nature conservation that is dynamic, not static, and which takes heights because nature – and therefore also the threats and protection needed – develops and changes. It is also important that previous decisions are evaluated and, if necessary, reviewed or amended in order to continue to contribute effectively to the protection of valuable environments and ecosystems. The fact that the government continues to pretend like nothing and even alters the inventory of key biotopes despite shortcomings in the process, we in the Center Party find very regrettable. Madam President, I would like Since Parliament has given budgetary policy a completely different direction from that of the Center Party, we will refrain from taking part in the decision on the distribution of appropriations.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-628	Madam President, I would like I can also begin by stating that decisions have already been taken in Parliament on the framework and direction of politics. Unfortunately, the Liberals' proposal fell, which is why we set out our position on the draft budget in a separate opinion. Nor do we intend to take part in the budget decision, which will take place next week. When we discuss the budget, it is important to bear in mind that the Liberals' overall spending framework contains just over 26 billion less than the government's. This means, of course, that we must set priorities differently. Precisely as regards Category 23 Areella industries, rural areas and food, which we are now discussing, we are probably about 1 billion lower than the government does. If you look at the Liberals' overall draft budget, you will see that we are setting a number of horizontal priorities. It is important to address them in order to be able to put the relevant expenditure area in context and in a holistic approach. It is about making work pay and about measures to strengthen the school. It is about making it easier to hire and about entry jobs for newcomers and young people. It is about strengthening self-determination for the elderly and strengthening personal assistance, and so on. These are some important examples. Madam President, I would like The Liberals' draft budget is also characterised by a clear green tax shift, i.e. an increase in environmental taxes based on the polluter pays principle and a reduction in labour taxes. In the Liberals' total draft budget, environmental taxes are about 5 billion higher than government taxes, and labour taxation is 19 billion lower. As far as environmental taxes are concerned, they will mostly be highlighted during the debate on Category 20, General Protection of the Environment and Nature, next week, but I would nevertheless like to highlight the liberal proposals that are more or less directly linked to today's spending area. It is a question of proposing a new leakage tax aimed at eutrophication and the cadmium content of commercial fertilisers and that we want to discuss diesel subsidies. We have heard in the past that this is a matter of competitiveness, but in some way we must be able to have a discussion about the gradual abolition of subsidies on fossil diesel in agriculture. It is fully in line with the discussion contained in the Paris Agreement, and I think that there could be discussions with the industry on this type of exchange. Madam President, I would like When it comes to the countryside as a whole, the Liberals naturally affirm that the whole of Sweden should live and that one should be able to operate throughout the country. Of course, there will be a great deal around agriculture and agriculture, which is an important part of rural areas, but there are many other activities in rural areas that also require infrastructure, not least broadband expansion that Kristina Yngwe highlighted. The Liberals have also contributed SEK 100 million to the budget in order to speed up the roll-out of broadband. This naturally benefits food production and agriculture, but also all other activities in rural areas. It is important to see the whole of rural policy, too much is about what infrastructure we have in general and what it looks like in that area of expenditure. In particular, road standards are an important point in rural areas, because road traffic is often the only means of transport available in rural areas. Sten Bergheden mentioned the high-speed train, and the Liberals also have a well-known opinion on them. The low-traffic routes we very rarely talk about, but of course they also have a very important role, not least in rural areas. A functioning postal service is also important if you are going to run a business in rural areas, and we must be able to have a discussion about a charging system that will enable overnight transport to work after all. These are areas that the Liberals are working on in other areas of expenditure, but this is still related to this. Madam President, I would like With regard to the food strategy, which has been up here, we in the Liberals were actually relatively satisfied when we took both the overall and the strategic objectives, because we thought, and we still think, that there is the market and consumer orientation that we think is important. We therefore fully support these objectives. Then let me say that we do not think that the measures that have then been proposed have properly reflected the objectives. We are talking about production being driven by consumer demand, as has been mentioned here before, and then the government has responded by setting quantitative targets for production and consumption. That is not really what we read into these cases. If we are talking about the market, and it is perhaps less of a political issue than a purely industry issue, we are very keen to focus on the potential we have. Food production in Sweden has a very high quality, and you must be able to get paid for the added value created in Sweden. It is about environmental considerations in general, and it is about strong animal welfare with low antibiotic treatment and many other things. Apart from talking about consumer demand as an obvious instrument in this context, it is of course very important to ensure good business conditions and that the government takes on the seven announcements that were, after all, in the discussion of the food strategy. Among other things, it is about the role of our authorities – moving from a purely public authority perspective to more of a user perspective in this context and taking the measures that society can take to enable consumers to make sustainable and conscious choices. Public procurement is important. There is much talk about Swedish here and Swedish there, but from the Liberals we have been clear: We are free trade defenders. However, we may think that it must be easy to set environmental and animal welfare requirements in line with the Swedish in public procurement, and then, of course, Swedish production will end up in a better competitive situation. But to make demands that it should be Swedish, we do not of course see as a real opportunity. If we're going to talk a little bit about Swedish forestry policy – we've been into the forest programme and so on – I think we really agree on the equal goals of production and the environment. Then it is about how we define the objectives and the balance between them. One of the priorities of the Liberals, and we will be addressing this next week, is the forest. We cannot discuss this at the level of funding, but we can still discuss what priority is given, and in that case it is not least to be able to give our old forests greater protection. We are in favour of the wording of the government's draft budget to be able to look at clean methods. I have highlighted in previous debates that research in this area has been very neglected. We don't think that the forest should be managed in the same way everywhere, but there are many different ways to manage the forest. To some extent, we are also in favour of this with key biotopes, which are an important part to take into account. In this respect, we can refer to Category 20. Madam President, I would like We talk a lot about agriculture when it comes to the agricultural industries, but it is also about fisheries and aquaculture. The fact that aquaculture does not have any indicators for the follow-up work itself is something that I think is very important to highlight. I also note that the government states in the budget that the pelagic fisheries system that we have put in place must be regarded as working and that it is intended to continue. There is also a huge challenge around Brexit and how the withdrawal will affect Swedish fishing, both from a quota point of view and when we talk about trade agreements. Swedish fishing will be a major topic of discussion in the coming years. Madam President, I would like I would like to say one last word about follow-up and that it is very good that we are dealing with this in committee. It is of course very important that we not only focus on allocating a number of billions in a measure and then do not see what is the result. However, it is somehow cost-effectiveness that we are looking for, and I think that what we are doing in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture is very central. I really appreciate it, and I think we should keep doing that.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-650	Madam President, I would like I support the reservations of the Christian Democrats, but for time to come, I only call for reservation 4. Agriculture is the basis for the survival of a nation. It is therefore important that we in this House have adopted the food strategy. For many years the policy in this House was to phase out Swedish agriculture. Instead, we are saying that we want to develop agriculture and food production. We Christian Democrats think this is a good and, of course, an important signal to the whole of agriculture. We are talking in the strategy about strengthening competitiveness and profitability, increasing food production and increasing food security. Madam President, I would like It is certainly not a day too soon. If we sum up food exports and food imports, we will have a trade deficit of approximately SEK 48 billion. If we could reduce the deficit by 10% in the next few years, about 5 billion would go to farms and rural areas. The Swedish level of self-sufficiency in food, or security of supply, has decreased sharply in recent decades and is now stated to be below 50 per cent, so every other bite we do not eat from Sweden. In times of crisis or war, we can expect imports to be significantly made more difficult. But even in peacetime, our country can be threatened with serious disruption so that the supply routes to Sweden are stopped. Have we thought that in our beautiful capital Stockholm the shelves will be empty in the grocery stores after two three days if the goods do not come in as we are used to? Oh, it's so bad, someone might say. Or you shrug your shoulders and say, "Who cares?" It's always gonna be okay. Since childhood we have been vaccinated with that never happens here in our country; we live in Sweden. I think it's a dangerous attitude. Our neighbouring country Finland has a completely different approach to the level of food supply. There it is about 85 percent. Finland has food readiness for a whole year. Sweden has for ten days. There's a big difference. In Finland, one can tell one's story and remembers what it is like to not have food for the country's inhabitants in times of crisis. Here Sweden has a great homework to do. Madam President, I would like A while ago, we got the competitiveness investigator's investigation on the table. The investigator deals with a lot that is important, including regulatory problems and bureaucracy. When I was on a bona breakfast in the Nässjö area, a dairy farmer said to me: "Hey, Magnus, every morning when I wake up I wonder what rule I will break today. It is no wonder that he thinks that, because if we sum up all the rules that a farmer must relate to within his farm, there are about 605 of them. And that's not enough. There are 22 journals, and in 36 different activities you have to apply for a permit. You can ask yourself when the farmer has time to care for his animals. It can't be like this. Here, regulatory letters to the authorities and leadership are needed to bring about a change. Madam President, I would like The investigator also mentions that the diesel tax is a heavy backpack for Sweden's farmers. Today, Swedish farmers pay considerably more for every litre of diesel than their European competitors. The government is talking about increasing the competitiveness of Swedish farmers. Then start by reducing the diesel tax – if the government is serious about the food strategy. We Christian Democrats propose that the tax on diesel used in agriculture be reduced by SEK 1.34 per litre. Madam President, I would like Last year there was severe drought in some parts of Sweden. This year we have had the opposite with very wet in the fields. In northern Sweden it has not been possible in some places to thresh the grain during the autumn due to a lot of rain and snow. For a number of years, there has been no public funding in Sweden for farmers who are affected by crop damage. It has been shown that there is no possibility of offering insurance against crop damage on a purely commercial basis. All crop damage insurance in the world, including in the United States, has some form of public co-financing. The lack of public co-financing of harvest damage insurance in Sweden means that the Swedish farmers have an additional competitive disadvantage in relation to their foreign colleagues. The rural development programme offers opportunities to subsidise insurance premiums or income stabilisation programmes. There is therefore reason to look into the introduction of some kind of fund for disaster damage in agriculture. Madam President, I would like Wild boar is a big and costly worry. We are talking about costs of over SEK 1 billion for agriculture, and yet we are not talking about costs of road traffic damage and damage to gardens. In the fight against wild boars, the individual farmer is unjust. Several measures must be taken in the fight against wild boars. All obstacles to reducing the strain must be removed. The Christian Democrats want to fight this for the sake of agriculture and the countryside.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-669	Madam President, I would like Sweden will stick together from Kiruna to Trelleborg. The common construction of society must be future-proof and apply to everyone throughout the country. We Social Democrats have taken on this after years of dismantling rural policy. It is we who are in a position of government and are going to reverse developments. We Social Democrats work in all political parts for this. Deficit has turned into surplus in order for us to have economic muscles to make the necessary change. I have listened to the opposition. It has ossified sulphur from the Moderate Sten Bergheden and the Swedish Democrats Runar Filper. I hear a certain difference in tone among the other bourgeois parties. The Center Party really thinks that a change can now be made. I agree with a lot of what Liberal Lars Tysklind points out and with which we must work together. However, in its draft budgets, the only measure to be taken is to reduce taxes once again. We've tried that, and it didn't work out very well. There will be no more training places, more localisation of authorities, more service offices in the country, more roads and railways because we are cutting taxes. We tried that policy for eight years, and it didn't work. That is why the Swedish people chose a different direction, namely the one we are now presenting. We are debating Category 23 Areella industries, rural areas and food. I usually explain to ordinary people that it's about what grows and can be harvested, so that they know what we're doing. The government has announced that it will focus in particular on a coherent rural environment, a competitive and sustainable food chain, forest policy and a national forest programme. On 4 January this year, the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development submitted its final report to the Government. The Government has also announced that in 2018 a proposal will be submitted to the Swedish Parliament. We look forward to this, Madam President, and the rural minister, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, will certainly talk about more important elements coming there. Let me also highlight the Civil Minister, Ardalan Shekarabi, on the Rural Day of the Rural Network. We are launching a new localisation policy in which the state should be present in and have a responsibility for the whole country. That, Madam President, is very important and will make a difference. I can see that not all counties were as forward-looking as my home county Västerbotten County as already in the late 90s announced and decided to expand black fibre as the way forward. We in Västerbotten, together with the metropolitan areas, are now at the front of the country. We can see that's good. But we still have a lot to do. We see that much of the country and the countryside are lagging behind. It is therefore a paradigm shift when we now have a government that has announced that everyone should have fast broadband. The former bourgeois government excluded 1 million people from high-speed broadband. What the government is now saying is that by 2025 everyone should have fast broadband. By that we mean 1,000 megabits. That is not a small objective. It is a great commitment and something that we will take on. It's going to make a big difference. To this we have a government that has announced the means to implement it. We shall have a competitive and sustainable food chain. Strongly encouraged by the food industries and the representatives of agriculture, we adopted here in this House in June, with an almost united parliament, the government's proposal for a food strategy. It's a big change. After many years of decline in food production and decommissioning in agriculture, a change has been announced. Sten Bergheden must have been extremely lonely in his party of the Moderates. He's standing here in the speaker's room saying he's been working for a food strategy. But he was quite alone among the Moderates, may I say. It's good that he here says they're now for it and working for it. I note that almost all he was for in the speaker's chair was the food strategy. Yet we are pleased that the Moderates are satisfied with something small. With reference to Lars Tysklind's speech, I would like to say that the government proposed a procurement authority from the outset. Of course, municipalities and county councils should be able to procure what they want, competitive and good food produced in Sweden. They shall be supported in their procurement. The authority has been announced for municipalities and county councils to have that competence and be able to make demands on good animal welfare conditions and other good conditions. It's a big change. We note that the government is allocating 163 million to a competitive food sector. That support may be used for marketing, participation in fairs, support for project activities aimed at increasing skills and developing products, processes, new technologies, etc., related to food development. In order to create good conditions, this must continue for several years. In order to have an effective implementation of the food strategy, it is very important that this work continues in the coming years. Madam President, I would like In their budgets, the alliance parties are basically proposing a substantial reduction in this area of funding. They stand here and say they want something, but it becomes the opposite in reality when they put numbers on it. They're cutting millions after millions. The Government also increases the grant to the Swedish Board of Agriculture. The Alliance proposes reductions in the National Agricultural Agency by millions after millions, some parties with a little more and some with a little less. But they fully agree that the reductions are needed and should be done. We have challenges. Biogas production in Sweden is under threat. Therefore, it is very important that we have environmental support that works and supports the production of biogas from manure, methane gas reduction compensation. Today we are receiving alarming signals that biogas production in Sweden is under threat. That is why it is important that we take steps to secure it. A very large and important part of my part of the country is that the government has announced that it will raise Norrland aid by 100 million in order for us to have a competitive food sector throughout the country. That is something we have been fighting for for many years. I note that the bourgeois parties here have not, in any case, announced any reduction, and I can thank them for that. For us to have a functioning food sector, we also need good animal welfare. Pending an animal welfare bill that is in the bill list and is expected to come in the next year, we can note that the work at the R3 Centre at the Swedish Board of Agriculture is now under way and is very important. We were a few Members today who attended the seminar on non-animal research. It is noted that research on animals is not just unethical. There are also poor results. It will be much better results when you can research stem cells in different forms of test tubes or in different forms of cultivation because humans and animals are not the same. It is sad that the bourgeois parties announce that they want to withdraw the money from this important activity. This is where we're going to bet money. We need to expand it. Rather, it needs to be invested in, for example, Vinnova so that it also benefits the industry. It is now at the Swedish Board of Agriculture, and the Swedish Board of Agriculture's R3 Centre assesses whether the research can be done without animal testing. It's great, and there's a big difference. I am therefore confused when the bourgeois parties want to reject funds for it. Then you get a little thoughtful. The Swedish Democrats want to invest 320 million in a new appropriation for animal welfare. That is something that we taxpayers should stand for. It goes without saying that all producers must have good animal welfare. Should we go in and fiscally subsidise something that should be self-evident? It's stupid. That, of course, does not make any sense. The work with a scientific council at SLU is now under way. It is an important measure to support the design of regulatory work in the field of animal welfare. I turn to talking about forestry policy and a national forestry programme. The forest delivers welfare, current account, recreation and dreams, peace and harmony, excitement and adventure. Rarely has so much forest been harvested as at present. Production has rarely increased as much as now and prices have been so good. Rarely have the bourgeois parties complained so much as at present about forest policy. That is something that is not connected, Madam President. Sometimes you can think that key biotopes are a new concept, a invention, but that's not the case. The inventory of key biotopes discussed has been ongoing since the 1990s. We say it has to evolve. That's what the Alliance says no to. We don't understand that. We propose a total of SEK 15 million per year to help create simple green jobs in nature conservation and soil conservation. It's about getting in a new group of people who can get a job and make an important investment for Sweden. We do not necessarily want a lot of guest workers from Romania and Bulgaria. They may not do a bad job, but we think we should use the opportunity we have. That's what the Alliance says no to. The Alliance also wants to reduce the grant to the Swedish Forest Agency, which would lead to the agency having difficulty in carrying out its work. I'm going to talk a little bit about wildlife damage. The government has announced that work will be done to reduce game damage, and that is good. The government presented a decision last week to increase the protection hunt for deer and deer, which is a good thing. There will be more to be done. We have more game than ever in our forests, and it is about time that we got a collective cloven-hoofed game management. The National Forest Programme aims to provide jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country. It will contribute to a very important development of the growing bioeconomy. Our S-led government will present a national forest programme based on the forest programme's dialogue process and then draw up an implementation programme. It's important, and we're looking forward to it. I'll tell you a little bit about the reindeer industry, too. It is an important initiative that the government is making on it, not least on the basis of the previous government's predator proposal, which we largely supported. Part of it is that there should be a tolerance level of 10 per cent for the reindeer industry. So it is said that this particular industry will tolerate 10% damage. That is why the government's efforts to strengthen this are even more important. It says the Center Party and the KD no to; it's boring. I agree with Lars Tysklind that the Brexit process will have an impact on fisheries policy. They will give rise to many questions. But the often cross-block cooperation we have had on fisheries policy has produced very good results, and I hope that we can continue that work, not least in order to achieve sustainable levels. If we are to have a cultural eel fishing here in Sweden, it is quite important that there is still eel. Then decisions must be made accordingly, so that we can actually have eel in the future. It can be carried by everyone. Madam President, I would like What we are doing now and what we are sowing can be reaped in the future. The impact of a food sector, a rural area and a forestry programme makes it possible to do so is too important.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-701	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Isak From. I was going to give you the opportunity to further develop what the initiatives you are now proposing for what you call rural areas will do for Sweden's farmers. I wanted to ask you a few questions and you have the opportunity to describe in an educational way how the investments you make will strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish farmers and forest owners. In fact, that is what we agreed on in the food strategy: that we should ensure that we strengthen competitiveness and increase production. I hope we still agree on that. The fact that you Social Democrats and the government then go completely the other way and instead start pumping up our authorities and government works with money means a completely different direction from what was shown by the Competitiveness Investigation, for example. How will the high taxes on diesel increase the competitiveness of Swedish farmers? You keep these taxes at the same level and therefore think that Swedish farmers should pay a little more diesel tax than they do in other countries, despite the fact that the Competitiveness Investigation and the Food Strategy have clearly indicated that we should strengthen this part. Now tell Swedish voters how the high diesel tax will strengthen agriculture in Sweden!
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-704	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden and the Moderates seem to believe that tax cuts are the only way. We say that we need to do both, and we definitely need to keep up the tax burden on fossil fuels. What we want to do is to increase the involvement of renewable fuels. I believe that the parties that support this approach can also discuss other tax proposals with the government, because then they are credible. However, if we consistently propose a reduction in fossil fuel taxation, we will not be able to settle it. Renewable fuels will benefit the agricultural sector. In fact, that is where these fuels are to be produced. It is agriculture and forestry that can contribute with renewable fuels. It is also their efforts that can enable the production of biofuels in Sweden.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-706	Madam President, I would like If I interpret it correctly, Isak From had no answer to how competitiveness should actually be strengthened with the high diesel tax. Then I have to ask the next question: how will the Swedish infrastructure work better when you spend money on high-speed trains and the extension of the rail system instead of investing in the roads that rural areas are actually asking for? And in the next step: how will competitiveness be strengthened by the mileage and truck tax you are planning to introduce? You now have some crumbs for the countryside: 1 billion. Compared to other budgets, you might think that there is a lot of money, given that you have a lower level there. It should be remembered, however, that from the other side, the Alliance and the Moderates, we do not first spend 60 billion in tax areas and then distribute 1 billion back to government agencies and administrations, for clearing slys that have arisen because they have not managed their nature reserves and hiking trails and for problems that have arisen because they have closed down production in this country as a result of a poor agricultural and food policy. These are measures that are caused by the fact that you have not ensured that agriculture and rural areas have gained momentum and have not followed the competition investigation and food strategy that we actually agreed on. That is what is being asked for. It is better that Isak From be honest and say: V i has weight down on us. It is the Green Party that governs the development of agricultural and forestry policy in the country. There is enough horror of many farmers and forest owners in this country to state this. But please answer how we strengthen competitiveness with mileage taxes, airline taxes and less money for our roads, while at the same time investing in government works. How does this strengthen farmers in Sweden?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-710	Madam President, I would like I hear Sten Bergheden is here to train, because I know that the Transport Committee is having its budget debate tomorrow. That is where these issues should be taken. It is clear that maintenance in government administration and in road and rail is generally lacking. That is why we have announced the biggest investment in new infrastructure we have seen in Sweden at all. Efforts are needed on both railways and roads for industry and food supply to work and for us to get goods into all parts. This is what makes the country intertwined. Sten Bergheden has been standing here for over three years and said that there will be total disaster, because the government intends to introduce a truck tax, which will mean this and this and this and this much. This has not happened, but Sten Bergheden will continue to say that it will happen. We have announced that we want a competitive fiscal policy in the field of transport. When such a proposal exists, we will present it. We cannot, as we do today, have distorted taxation, in which we tax Swedish hauliers. They pay a higher tax. Is that what we're supposed to do? Yeah, maybe that's what Sten Bergheden wants, but that's not how we Social Democrats want it. We want order in the transport sector; that is the basis for it. That is why we are announcing various proposals. But Sten Bergheden talks about tax cuts and total disaster. I do not see this total disaster, but I see that quite a lot of people in the country are now debating and want the different efforts that each region is now making and which are important for each part of the country. In our part of the country it is Norrbotniabanan, Inlandbanan and Malmbanan, Malmporten in Luleå port and so on – extremely important investments – but also some strategically important road projects to increase the tonnage on the roads so that we get the goods out and get the whole country to work.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-716	Madam President, I would like Earlier this autumn we were reached by an alarming report from Germany. There scientists have studied the presence of insects in some areas. They have found that many insects have decreased by 80 percent in just under 30 years – these are frightening figures. And insect death is now happening all over the world. An increasingly large-scale agriculture with increased use of pesticides sees the German researchers as a reason for the reduction. Yes, but it's nice to get rid of some insects, maybe someone thinks — mosquitoes that bite, bees that scare and annoying flies. But what you do not think about is the essential role of insects in nature around us. For example, they do important work with pollination of many crops, which then become our food. They also participate in pest control. According to data from Artdatabanken, 90 - 95 percent of the pests that destroy our crops may be combated by other insects, quite naturally. I hope that insect death can contribute to a shift in our view of nature and our use of it and our agricultural and forestry policy. Madam President, I would like We are today debating Category 23, Areella industries, rural areas and food. This is an area of expenditure that, as has already been said, amounts to SEK 19 billion for next year. Half of this money comes from EU agricultural aid. That is to say, it is money that we have paid into the European Union's common cash register and then received back. We will have to allocate them according to the rules that apply to agricultural aid. I do not intend to dwell so much on those rules, but to state that EU agricultural aid must be given a regulatory framework that favours the sustainable use of the land and not, as it is today, when too much of the money goes to the opposite – a large-scale chemical agriculture. We, the green parties in Europe, have already begun work on reshaping the EU's agricultural policy. At our congress in Karlstad last weekend, we adopted a joint resolution with our focus on agriculture and forestry, based on our vision that all agriculture should be ecologically sustainable and provide fair conditions for farmers. Madam President, I would like The Green Party is pleased to see the development that is taking place today in Sweden. More and more people are filling the shopping cart with organic products. Last year organic food sales increased by 18%, and organic food now accounts for almost 10% of all food we buy. Today there is even a shortage of Swedish-produced eco-products. It is therefore good that the government has set a new area target for organic production as a step towards meeting the food strategy's goal of increased food production in Sweden. The new target is for 30% of the area to be organic by 2030. As a measure to achieve this, the government has also increased the allocation for eco-production and consumption by 25 million a year. Among other things, the government has increased support for farmers who want to switch to organic farming. Today it is often more profitable to be an eco farmer, but as with all activities, there are costs associated with the conversion. It is sad to see that all bourgeois parties in their budgets want to delete eco-support. I do not believe that this is something that is welcomed by the farmers who are today in the process of change. Madam President, I would like Another reason for insect death, in addition to the use of toxic pesticides, is that the cultural landscape, i.e. the land we used for cultivation and grazing, is growing again. About half of Sweden's plant and animal species depend on the cultural landscape, especially meadows and pastures. As these grow again, many species lose their habitat. In Sweden, for example, the number of bees and bumble bees is falling dramatically. 83 of Sweden's 280 species of bees are redlisted. The dependence of species on man's land management shows how man has played and can still play a positive role in nature. The Green Party has long worked to increase compensation for farmers and others who care for meadows and natural pastures. This is now becoming a reality. The government wants to increase the funding for environmental setting for this by 85 million a year. These are mowing meadows with special values, forest grazing, mosaic grazing and grazing of other grass-poor lands. The aid is increased by SEK 1 000 per hectare, and for elf work by SEK 400 per hectare. The National Federation of Farmers, LRF, has expressed a positive view of the investments in pastures but would like to see even greater investments in the future. On this issue, the LRF and MP agree. The Green Party is working to increase support for farmers' environmental services, particularly in the framework of the rural development programme. With the Government's investment in valuable meadows and natural pastures, we are making an effort to stop species extinction and strengthen biodiversity, for better conditions for our farmers and for a cultural landscape for all. Madam President, I would like Turning to a more sustainable use can, as I said, lead to increased costs at an initial stage. Knowledge of other methods is also needed. Of course, this applies not only to agriculture but also to forestry. This is why our government has doubled the funding that Skogsstyrelsen has for clean forestry from 6 to 12 million to be used for both method development and information to forest owners. The Green Party thinks this is a good first step to get more forest owners to take the step from bare-hugging to continuum forestry. Many of the forest's animals and plants have been severely affected by the Swedish kalehyggesbruket. Many species simply depend on the fact that there are always different kinds of trees of different ages in their habitat. Free methods are also positive for outdoor life, ecotourism, reindeer farming, cultural values and hunting. Madam President, I would like There are also forests that we should not use at all. I am talking about, among other things, the last remnants of old forests. I'm also talking about the key biotopes. Key biotopes, i.e. forest areas with very high natural values, play an important role in preserving the endangered plants and animals of the forest. These are areas that cannot be harvested if one has chosen to eco-certified one of the two certifications available, FSC and PEFC. These areas have been surveyed by the Swedish Forest Agency, mainly during the 1990s. That's when they did it nationwide. However, due to a lack of money, it has evolved to the fact that the Swedish Forest Board makes these surveys for the most part in connection with logging notifications. This is obviously not good, either for those who own the forest or for those who work with the inventory at Skogsstyrelsen. In the Environmental Party's forest policy programme, which we adopted at our congress this spring, we propose that resources be provided for a new nationwide key biotop inventory. We are therefore, of course, very pleased that the government is now allocating 20 million a year for ten years to this particular issue. In order to offer forest owners with key biotope-rich forests area protection, the Government also allocates 100 million extra to the Swedish Forest Board's funding for biotope and nature conservation agreements and 50 million extra for nature conservation management of protective forests. This initiative seeks to remove the alliance parties and the Swedish Democrats. One might ask why. Is it wrong that private forest owners receive inventory help from the state? Why should forest owners with key bio-rich land not be entitled to compensation from the State if they protect them instead of felling them? Well, that's a question. The Government's budget also includes an investment of 135 million for simple green jobs in forests, for example. This is a welcome initiative both for nature and soil conservation and for all those people who are currently far from the labour market, including our new arrivals. Through this initiative, many will be offered meaningful work combined with useful and important natural experiences. But this initiative too wants to remove the alliance parties and the Swedish Democrats. The budget also includes additional efforts to protect key bio-rich areas with 150 million in Category 20. However, I think that we will have the opportunity to come back to this in the debate that we are going to have next week. Madam President, I would like It's almost Christmas. For many, Christmas ham has an important place on the table. But more and more people are also thinking about how the pig had it before it became ham. Sweden has taken the lead in improving animal welfare and animal welfare. However, the last decision of the Swedish Board of Agriculture, which came into force last week, is a step in the wrong direction. It is an official decision, an amended regulation, which allows the pig farmer to take the pig's cults from the sow earlier than today, even after three weeks instead of four weeks. I hope that the new Scientific Council established by the Government, which will start its work at the beginning of next year, will take as its first task to urge the Swedish Board of Agriculture to amend this decision. This is important because the previous minimum age of four weeks provides a better life for our pigs, healthier pig cults, reduced antibiotic use and better public health. I also look forward to the Government's proposal for a new Animal Welfare Act to be presented this spring leading to better lives for our animals. Finally, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-741	Madam President, I would like It was an interesting post. I would like some clarifications on the Green Party's policy, given that we are all behind a food strategy and a competitiveness study where we have talked about increasing production and strengthening competitiveness. I understand that you have worked hard with the organic production, Stina Bergström. What proposals do the Green Party and the Government have to strengthen conventional agricultural production in Sweden? It is, however, the largest part. A supplementary question is whether Stina Bergström and the Green Party believe that organic food is better than conventional food in Sweden, because they want to benefit it. Given that organic production is not in a position to produce as much per hectare as conventional production, the total production of food in Sweden will decrease. And that goes against the food strategy. How does the Green Party view it? Is it okay for us to be in control? When you have listened to the Green Party a number of times you understand how this policy is connected. I had a hard time believing that. But now I understand that you really want less meat in Sweden and fewer animals. It will mean that our land will grow again. It's gonna be sly and stuff. But then you have thought the whole line out and figured out that instead of having grazing animals and Swedish meat production, we can introduce emergency work to clear the siss out in the countryside. I would like a comment on that. Is that how the Green Party has thought about this?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-745	Madam President, I would like That's a lot of questions. I'll see if I can answer the two minutes I have. As far as the eco-food is concerned, I just said in my speech that it is not really what the Green Party thinks is important but what consumers want. The demand for organic food is increasing by 16%, and 10% of our food is organic food. We have a shortage of organic food in Sweden. For example, we import a lot from Denmark. Then it is good if the government can help farmers who want to change to echo, instead of us buying the food from outside. This is important for us to be able to maintain and increase food production in Sweden. Of course, conventional agriculture in Sweden is better in many ways than agriculture abroad. And it is important that we invest in environmental improvements in all agriculture. This also applies to fuels, which have been discussed here before. We should not place agriculture in Sweden in a dependence on fossil fuels, but instead promote the development of biofuels in agriculture as well. It will be both cheaper and better when it comes to the degree of self-sufficiency and safety in Swedish agriculture. It is important for us Swedish consumers. Bergheden also asked about the flesh. It is important that we reduce meat consumption, not least for climate reasons, but also for public health reasons. We have increased meat consumption by 40% since the 1990s. And the whole increase is due to imported meat.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-749	Madam President, I would like I did not get an answer to how you have strengthened conventional food production, Stina Bergström. That you have strengthened the ecological is quite obvious, as you try to steer in that direction. The Moderates do not compare organic production with conventional production. We believe that both must have competitive conditions whereby organic production can compete with organic food from abroad and that conventional food can compete with foreign conventional food. That's how we reason. Instead, you are trying to control all production. In this way, total food production in the country will decrease. This will mean, among other things, fewer jobs. I did not get a clear answer as to whether you want fewer animals and that the solution is to clean the sly with the help of emergency work instead of our animals keeping the countryside open while producing meat and having a living countryside. I hope I can get even clearer answers to those questions. Another point that I would like to raise with the Green Party concerns something that was a little unclear in my debate with Isak From earlier. The Social Democrats then began to falter a little in relation to the truck tax and the road wear charge. Has the Green Party given up on introducing a truck tax in Sweden, which you have worked for? You want to reduce truck traffic. I guess you're putting new taxes on something to try to reduce that business. Has the Green Party also let go of the idea of a kilometre tax, which I thought Isak From was still breathing a little in this context? At least he tried to crawl away that way.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-756	Madam President, I would like No one is surprised that the Moderates and the Green Party have different visions of agriculture. Our vision is an agriculture free of chemicals, pesticides and fertilizers. So our vision is that the entire agricultural sector should be ecologically sustainable. That's what we work for. Bergheden asked what we have done to support conventional growers. There is much in the food strategy that does so. One thing I talked about in my speech – support for pastures. It is not only aimed at organic farmers. There is also much else in that strategy. As far as meat consumption is concerned, I did not have time to say that the Green Party believes that it is primarily the foreign meat that is to be reduced in Sweden. We also discussed this in the Environment Agenda, which many of us in this House were involved in, and in the food strategy. There may even be an opportunity to increase the number of meat animals in Sweden, to keep the land open but also because it is better meat in many ways. I also need to talk about the mileage tax. Bergheden and I have discussed and debated it many times before. The Green Party has certainly not put down plans for us to have a kilometre tax or road wear charge in the country. We have a common goal, which also Sten Bergheden's party, the Moderates, has supported. We will reduce traffic emissions by 70% by 2030. This means, among other things, that we must get the transport from the lorries on the roads to the railways and the lake. There, the road wear charge is an important piece of the puzzle. Today we only have tolls on rail and shipping, but not for those who drive on the road.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-761	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask you a few brief questions about organic production. I fully agree with Stina Bergström on the description of what is happening in society. We have a sharp increase in consumer demand and a significant increase in production. It's more profitable. Let's just say. I have an idea of what I was talking about in the speaker's chair earlier. The basic objectives of the food strategy state that it is consumer demand that should guide production. When we see that demand really controls production, why go into such a market with state aid? This is, however, something that the market itself will regulate. We in the Liberals are clear that if the demand for organic is 100%, that is what will be delivered. Otherwise, it'll be a pretty dead market. The percentages may well be exceeded by reality, so we see no need for this. My question is: why is the Green Party holding on to the need to set targets of this kind? Nevertheless, we see that the market is growing on the basis of consumer demand. With regard to meat consumption, it is also reasonable to rely on consumer demand. At our country meeting, we in the Liberals adopted a point in which we believe that mandatory labelling of meat can be a way forward. Then you give the consumer a chance to make a conscious choice.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-767	Madam President, I would like As a politician, I think that this with objectives in different areas is very good. As I have said, organic consumption in Sweden is increasing, but production must follow. The Green Party thinks it is good if you produce as much as possible of this food in Sweden. Although it is more profitable to be an eco farmer today, it is costs associated with that conversion. Then it is good if you can support farmers who want to change, so that you do not end up in the position that Swedish farmers produce food that Swedish consumers do not want. That would be contrary to what we wanted in the food strategy. I think it is important and good that we have the target of 30% of the area. The old targets, both the acreage target and the public administration target, have meant a lot to the increased consumption and production in Sweden. We had that goal when I was a municipal politician at home in Kils's municipality. It meant a lot to farmers who sold echo milk that we bought echo milk instead of ordinary milk. It depends on what visions you have and what society you want to see in the future. The Green Party wants a society with an ecological and sustainable agriculture and forestry. It is an important part of our policy.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-772	Madam President, I would like It is, however, a matter of public consumption when there is a need to choose echo milk. Once again, it is the consumer's demand that governs, even if it is a public consumer. Isak From also mentioned this with green jobs in this particular sector. We from the Liberals and the Alliance have put forward a little more general proposals about this by lowering the thresholds in the labour market. Our proposal for admission is highly applicable in this sector as well. We believe much more in general proposals that can be implemented in all sectors than in having specially-destined proposals. It can be said that we are cutting the appropriations for this. But we have other solutions to the same problem. This is important to be told. Does Stina Bergström not think that there is something in that general solutions are nevertheless better in this context?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-777	Madam President, I would like I think Lars Tysklind has missed an important part of this green job thing. There have been green jobs previously under the direction of the County Administrative Board and Skogsstyrelsen, where they have collaborated with municipalities. Then the green jobs can be used for people who may have entered the wall. Many of us are doing so today in view of the labour market we have. These green jobs can be an over steam in order to return to the labour market. Being out in nature, clearing sly and clearing for hiking trails can feel both meaningful and beneficial. It can probably also be very good jobs for many new arrivals who do not have the contact with the forest and nature that we have in Sweden. Then they can discover how important that contact is. Then the Green Party is in no way opposed to green tax exchange and reduction of employers' contributions. Basically, we think it is a good thing to raise environmental taxes and lower taxes on labour. When I listened to Lars Tysklind it seemed a bit distorted, but it was a much smaller increase in environmental taxes from the Liberals compared to the reduction in taxes that they want to implement.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-779	Madam President, I would like You concluded your speech by talking about piglets and Christmas that we long for. When I listened to what you said about the piglets, I was losing my mind. If I heard correctly, you are now saying in front of the audience here that with the new rules that the Board of Agriculture is going to introduce, you will see nothing but misery in front of you. You mentioned diseases in the pigs, more antibiotic use and only misery. Did I get you right?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-781	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson, for the question! When the Swedish Board of Agriculture sent out the proposal to reduce the weaning age of piglets, a large majority of the referral bodies were opposed to this proposal for, among other reasons, the reasons I mentioned. They felt that there would be a poor health of pig cults, a higher level of antibiotic use, more diarrhea and such things. I find it very worrying that you make such a decision and that it is very stupid to do so. If something is important for Swedish competitiveness and for our meat animals and pigs, it is that Swedish consumers – and also consumers abroad – trust that we have strict animal health and care requirements. I know that there have been protests and reactions to this in other parts of Europe. Our rural minister also says that it is very stupid to lower Swedish animal welfare requirements if we want to compete with our Swedish products abroad and in Sweden.
i-6xgDZBzvotnBZwSLdaytoD	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Stina Bergström, for your answer! Of course I think it's a little strange that you're not taking up something that the Swedish Board of Agriculture has decided. Do you have any more expertise on your side? The Board of Agriculture has made its decision and you have your expertise. I talked to a vet this weekend, and he said this is going well. It will not be worse for animal welfare, nor for the piglets. That is serious because you are speaking to perhaps a few thousand people listening to this debate. Then it is very important that we speak good and that we speak the truth. The Board of Agriculture has adopted this. One would never make a decision that would make it worse for animal welfare. It would never work. Then my question is: is this the position of the Green Party or of the whole government? The Minister for Rural Development is here, so I can ask him if he is behind the strong criticism that Stina Bergström is making against the Swedish Board of Agriculture. I would like to ask the Minister for Rural Development whether you are really criticising the Swedish Agriculture Agency. If so, it would be interesting and remarkable.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-788	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson! I believe that the Christian Democrats and the Green Party have somewhat different requirements in terms of animal welfare and animal health. It is no secret that we in the Green Party have been very critical of the proposal to lower age. There we have good support from many of the consultative bodies who said that it is not okay to do this. And I think I have good support in science and in scientists and opinionators. Moreover, as a biological being, I understand that suckling children or young children is worse than longer and has an effect on their health. It also affects the sow's health, because she should be able to have more hills per year. You can compare with Kravgrisar. There the cults can stay with the sow until they are 47 days, I think, compared to 21 and 28 days. One might think that this will be good for the Kravgriss, who are even more desirable on the market. I and Magnus Oscarsson have discussed animal health before, and I know that the Christian Democrats do not think it is a problem that the cows are not allowed to graze. However, the Green Party believes it is very important to protect the animals and give them a good life, both because it is ethically important and because it actually gives the Swedish food a great value. If we start talking about this, I think the Swedish consumers do not think they need to invest in Swedish meat but can just as well buy meat from outside.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-792	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the state budget's expenditure category 23 Areella industries, rural areas and food. An important part of this area is the forest. We in the Left Party support the proposal in both the area of expenditure and the whole budget. We are pleased that more money is being invested in the forest with this budget than in a very long time. More than 1 billion has been announced that will go to direct efforts for more sustainable forestry and to the Swedish Forest Agency in order for it to be able to implement the goals we set ourselves. Some of these efforts will go to increased forest protection in the form of biotop protection, nature conservation agreements and clean nature reserves. We also allocate special money to decent forestry, which is a new and old forestry method. Actually, this is how the forest has been cultivated very far back. You have taken the trees that have been ripe to build a house or a boat or do something else. Thus, it is a different method from the area use that exists today and is based on fellings. That's where you take down the whole forest. We see the non-slip forestry as a method with extremely great potential. We want to be able to continue to benefit from what the forest produces but also to maintain more biodiversity. I am also pleased that we are spending more money on so-called key biotop inventories. It is about inventories of completely unique natural areas that we simply need to know about. If we do not know which species and plants etc. exist in an area, it is difficult to decide that certain forest areas need to be protected. I would like to emphasise that it is a good thing that the key biotope inventory should be resumed, because it has, so to speak, been too far away. The Swedish Forest Agency took a break for a while in the northern part of Sweden. It is not only important to take stock, it is of course necessary to collect all key biotopes and register them. This is a good step forward, we believe in the Left Party, but basically we need a different forestry policy in Sweden. Today it is about short-term profit interests. The interest in production is superior to long-term environmental considerations. It is not sustainable for large parts of our forests to become wood fields without biodiversity. It is usually said that we have never had as much forest as today. At the same time, the diversity of the forest has never been as small as it is today. Very much remains to be done in order for us to have a much more sustainable forestry in Sweden. Another important investment in the expenditure area is the green jobs in the forest. We allocate more than SEK 100 million to this. One can say that it is about relatively simple manual jobs to be done, but it is extremely important jobs. It can be about clearing, caring for nature reserves, making the forest more accessible to get out in and so on. We believe that people who have been unemployed for a long time have an opportunity to get a job here. We just hit two birds with one stone. We both protect more nature and create new important jobs. The budget also provides money for a competence centre, a so-called 3R centre, to replace, refine and reduce animal testing. Isak From talked about this earlier. The fact that we now have money for a 3R centre to reduce the number of animal experiments in Sweden is actually a result of the Left Party negotiations with the government. Many animals are used in animal experiments in Sweden. It's just over $5 million. Not all these animals would have to suffer the suffering they do in animal experiments. There are many modern methods that can replace animal testing. It is precisely such methods that we think we should invest more in. That's why a 3R center is important. We in the Left Party also see the food strategy that was put through earlier this year as a very big and positive opportunity. It is now time to fill the food strategy with content. The Left Party looks primarily at and hopes that sustainable food will be able to receive increased support with the food strategy. It is about food that contributes to increased biodiversity, for example through more production of organic food, reduced emissions and better public health through more plant-based, vegetarian, food. The food strategy clearly addresses the issue of sustainable food. The food strategy also contains wordings that state that, for example, animal species have the greatest impact on the environment and the climate. It also says that we need changes in diets with more vegetable and less meat. The herbal food is the food segment for which there is the greatest interest. This is evidence of the market, in short. This is what people are asking for most, and that is what is growing fastest in trade. What, then, could be better than supporting herbal food? Then more food can be produced that is made of legumes, such as peas, prayer or r and lentils. Plant-based milk is also something that is very much in demand. It has very low emissions and is also very healthy. Food strategy and food sustainability are something with which we see great opportunities. There was a discussion here earlier about whether or not we should consume less meat. We in the Left Party absolutely want a reduction in meat consumption. But we also imagine that the meat that will still be consumed should be better meat. It should be better for animals as well as for the environment and public health. In this budget, there is special money allocated to more natural pastures, so that we can maintain and perhaps increase areas such as meadows and meadows. It can also be wood grazing, mosaics and the like. This is a long way from the animal factories that we unfortunately have today, to a very large extent, where animals do not go outdoors and graze, cuddle or peck in the ground at all. We in the Left Party also see great potential in organic food and are happy that we now have goals for how organic food can increase. Like Stina Bergström of the Green Party earlier, we in the Left Party see with great concern the Swedish Board of Agriculture's new rules on pig farming, where pig cults can be taken from the sow earlier than is happening today. This is, as has been said, completely contrary to what I would say is a basically unified research force: this is not good for animal welfare. It will push for increased antibiotic use and so on. I simply hope that the newly established Scientific Council will address this issue, so that these rules will be amended as soon as possible. It is very unfortunate, I think, that the government and the Minister for Rural Development have not acted on this issue, something that could certainly have been done. Madam President, I would like I see that the time is running out, but I would like to comment on two more things. When you look at the budgetary options here in the form of the budgets of the four bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats, you can say that there are five shades of cuts. Liberals want to cut most of this budget by $1 billion. The Moderates and Christian Democrats want to cut by 800 million, the Center Party by 40 million. As far as the Swedish Democrats are concerned, I do not know how they will get it together. They put forward their own budget, but then they still vote for the Moderates' budget. The Swedish democrats are equally good or equally bad cutters as well. What concerns me most, Madam President, is that we are attacking precisely the environmental efforts in this budget, such as the efforts towards more sustainable forestry, more sustainability in agriculture and organic food. And why reduce SEK 25 million at SLU, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences? I just don't understand why you do it. Last but not least, this report contains an annex in which the committee's monitoring and evaluation team has evaluated the government's report on how well the government's objectives are met in the budget. In this evaluation group, all parties have had one representative. I've been chairman. We have also had the help of evaluator Joakim Skotheim, and the secretary of the Environment and Agriculture Committee Helena Rudin has helped us to write this very important report. We note in the report that some progress is being made with regard to the government's accounts, but that it still leaves some things to be desired, for example, that it is not always possible to track how well the efforts are contributing to the achievement of the objectives. We also note that it is a good thing that the food strategy should be followed up every year, but we want to see a comprehensive account of all the efforts made on the food strategy. I apologize for running over time.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-812	Madam President, I would like People's expectations are the politician's biggest enemy, said Tage Erlander. We live in a different society, with different conditions than when Erlander was Prime Minister. But the high expectations of us politicians are strong at the same time as they are now. And if there are some people in Sweden who just have high expectations of politics, they are the ones who live, live and work in Swedish rural areas. Madam President, I would like The Swedish countryside has for a long time been neglected by politics – by different governments of different colours. But now things are happening, and actually positive things. Several political parties have woken up and become involved in the countryside and the green industries, in a way that I, as a rural resident and rural minister, have never dared to dream of. But that means meeting people's expectations. Madam President, I would like Let us begin with the vital thing — the food we produce, refine, and consume throughout our elongated land. This has been the wrong direction for too many years. Production has been reduced in many important areas. Self-sufficiency has declined while politics has not been able to do anything to reverse developments. All parties that have been in charge of Sweden over the past 20 years should look back on what we have done and what we have not done. But just this year the decision that Food Sweden has longed for finally came. A historic cross-block settlement was made in Parliament through the food strategy. Through this decision we now have completely new conditions to reverse the development of Food Sweden. The government has already decided over 35 measures this year. They strengthen sustainable growth and competitiveness in the food chain in various ways. Perhaps the government's ability to act together with the parliamentary parties' joint responsibility will begin to have an effect. This autumn we learned that the index reported in the LRF Consultants' Farm Barometer for the first time in ten years is positive. According to the survey, more than half of Sweden's farmers now feel that profitability is very or fairly good. In other words, developments are moving in the right direction. But, Madam President, neither entrepreneurs nor politicians can ever settle down. Productivity and competitiveness need to be constantly developed so that companies can develop their profitability. Therefore, the work on the food strategy must also continue with full force in the next term of office. The area that I think we need to concentrate particularly on is simplification. We really need to make it easier for companies to do the right thing. It is not necessarily a question of reducing requirements, but we must make it easier for companies to comply with them. At the same time, we should also be honest with the difficulty that has been encountered in the simplification process. Simplification is something that various governments have been working on for many years without the results always getting so much better. Our authorities have started simplification trips in some parts, with success, but we have a long way to go. I am convinced that a new and concerted approach will be needed to get rid of the hassle experienced by entrepreneurs. This is not a quickfix but a long-term, solid work where we take advantage of all years of experience in simplification and thus take this many steps further. It must be easy to do the right thing for food businesses. This expectation and demand are something that we politicians must take very seriously. Madam President, I would like The forest – the green gold – is the future. It is a fundamental building block in our export-dependent economy. Forests are also the foundation of a growing bioeconomy that takes us away from fossil dependence. We live in a wooded part of the world, with very good conditions for good and sustainable forest production. The forest has been a part of the Swedish people's soul since time immemorial. It has shaped our country, our culture and our community. It has borne our welfare from one of Europe's poorest countries to one of Europe's richest. When I'm on my way to Stockholm, 150 km by car to Luleå airfield, I see the log cars swish past. I see our childcare, health care and care for the elderly. Much of this has been borne by the forest, and we shall be very careful about that. Everyone who works in the forest industry, forest owners and the environmental movement expects order and order in forestry policy, where the various interests that exist must be carefully balanced. In the 2018 budget, the government invests in forest protection, conservation, clean forestry and national inventories of key biotopes. We also make important investments in laser scanning of Swedish forests and on green jobs. The Government will also present a national forest programme based on the evidence from the forest programme's dialogue process. Madam President, I would like The hunt in Sweden is a popular movement. It involves many people in our country. The hunt is also an important part of food supply, with great potential for both exports and increased tourism. In the field of hunting, we have had several successes in this parliamentary term. For mountain hunting, we have found a solution that guarantees long-term sustainability and protects the unique mountain environment. I'm very happy about that. We have also decided on a generous protection hunt on the quake of crown and dovhjort. It can help farmers and foresters who have problems with damage to crops and conifers. There was an opportunity to address the issue of wild animal feeding, which leads to problems, not least for many of our farmers, as previous speakers here mentioned. There was an expectation that politics would find a solution to the issue, but unfortunately the political responsibility required by the Swedish parliament was lacking. But the government is not letting go of this issue. The Government welcomes the responsible initiative shown by individuals and relevant organisations. As far as the reindeer industry is concerned, it faces several major challenges. It is about climate change, the possibility of participation in land-use processes and coexistence with predators. The strengthening proposed by the government in the reindeer industry budget is therefore very important. Madam President, I would like Another important issue for our country is fishing. I was pleased when Lars Tysklind, as the only member of the Alliance, touched on it. It is important both as a nutrition and as a leisure interest. Recreational fishing gathers more than 1 million Swedes and is an important popular movement that also contributes to tourism and the tourism industry in the countryside. The government has worked intensively to strengthen sustainable fishing where the industry gets long-term and competitive rules of play. It benefits the fishing industry and our coastal communities and provides healthy food for both us and future generations. In 2016, the value of total catches from marine fisheries increased by good 9 per cent compared with the previous year. I'm glad to hear that. Madam President, I would like The Swedish people want a country that holds together and where all parts of Sweden are given good opportunities to develop and reach their full potential. In recent years, the waves of discussion have been high. City and country have often been opposed to each other, and divisions between them create mistrust. This has provided breeding ground for populism and a harmful we-and-de-think. At the beginning of our term of office, we set up a parliamentary committee to submit a proposal for a coherent rural policy. At the beginning of the year, they submitted their final report with 75 proposals, which were supported by an almost unanimous committee. Within two weeks of the transmission of the final report, the government had already decided on one of the proposals, and several proposals have since become a reality during the year. This year's budget announces major historic efforts to keep our country together. At the same time, work on the bill has been intensive throughout the year, and it will be submitted to the Riksdag in the new year. It is about jobs, education, welfare, security and much more. We want to provide the conditions for a good life throughout the country. Madam President, I would like There is an expectation that we politicians will ensure that we stick together our country. When the rural bill lands on Parliament's table, together we have the opportunity to ensure that this is the case. Finally, Madam President, I know that most politicians are working to do something good for Sweden. The tools are in place, and people expect and want change. But I think there is something in what Mr Erlander said, that people's expectations are the greatest enemy of politicians. It is important that we politicians take responsibility, that we seek cooperation on those issues where possible and necessary, and that we reject party tactics and block politics. So, Madam President and the best Members, let us discuss, and let the differences be heard. It is when the differences meet that it is created new. Let us seek cooperation when we can. This is what people expect, and that is what is needed for us together to reverse developments in Swedish rural areas.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-833	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Rural Development, for your speech. We had a debate here earlier on piglets and the proposal from the Swedish Board of Agriculture. I find it interesting to highlight this. Somehow it is easy to see that the piglets are now in trouble and troublesome, and you only see misery in front of you. You even talk about even more antibiotic use, but that's not true. I think we need to clear this up together now. If I understand this correctly, it is a programme of extended health checks and 32 control points, and the veterinarian is there every quarter to make sure that everything works perfectly. The reason is also that piglets are so large – 10 kilos. It can be 150 kilos lying and nursing on the mother, who does not get any wool. So you think about the pigs, not the other way around. Then, of course, the question to the Minister for Rural Development must be: Are you behind the criticism that Stina Bergström has against the Swedish Board of Agriculture? It would be interesting to hear how you feel about it.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-837	Madam President, I would like I think Magnus Oscarsson is well aware that as Minister I cannot comment on a change of regulation for which the authority is responsible. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has made this change and made these assessments, and I have full confidence that what they have done is correct. I have also stood here in Parliament not long ago and answered an interpellation on this issue, and I have no reason to go into the details today. But I must also say that I am impressed by Magnus Oscarsson's commitment and focus on agriculture when we discuss this matter tonight. We are discussing agricultural, rural and food sectors. It's not just about agriculture, Magnus. There is so much else in this. The food strategy deals, of course, with agriculture, but also with the greenhouse industry, coastal fishing, the food industry, small-scale farming, exports and research. It also handles so many other things, and that is very positive. Most farmers – a majority – say that it is very good today and that they have good profitability. It is also a question of rural development. Today we see that the deaths of shops in Swedish rural areas have been halted because this government made great efforts a few years ago and is now making even greater efforts. We also see the positive thing when broadband comes out in Swedish rural areas. It is just as important as when we once electrified Sweden. But it is also equally important for the farmers, Mr Oscarsson. It is important that we get all this in place.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-843	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for that. I certainly agree with the Minister that there is much more to be done in rural areas. What you say, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, sounds incredibly good. But that's not really the truth when we start scraping a little bit on the surface. There's a lot to do, and so do I. I have one more question. We are talking about the food strategy, and we are pleased that Parliament has taken a decision on it in this House. When you talk to many farmers, they say that it is good that we have decided on it. But they also say another thing. How can it be that when I, as a farmer, call the municipality or county administrative board, they say: Oh, you are a farmer and are doing environmentally dangerous activities. It says in the environmental code that it is environmentally dangerous that they are doing. Anyone who listens to this must wonder how this rhymes, that is, that a farmer who is milking somewhere should think that it is a matter of environmentally dangerous activity. It rhymes really badly. You can look at the difference in how we see different things only in the Nordic countries. Food production in Finland is about security of supply. In Denmark, food production is about being a self-evident business opportunity. In Sweden it is an environmentally dangerous activity. What does the Minister say about this? I hope that, on the basis of the food strategy, we will have something new in the environmental code. Now the minister has a great chance to tell us how he intends to do it.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-850	Madam President, I would like It says it should be tested as environmentally hazardous activity. If the requirements are met, it is not environmentally dangerous activity. Nevertheless, let us talk about what is creating change for Swedish agriculture, if that is what the honourable Member wanted to talk specifically about. We provide increased support to the farmers in northern Sweden. This appropriation has not increased since 1995. The budget increases by 100 million. It creates competitiveness and the opportunity to maintain agriculture in northern Sweden as well. We go in with large amounts to develop the plant breeding skills – 90 million. We're modernising meat control. We are giving support to organic production and consumption, which Mr Oscarsson may not really like. We go in with a support for mowing meadows and pastures. We include environmental measures in the rural development programme. It is a series of measures to stimulate the country's agriculture. This involves 1 billion and 35 measures to date to support and create a workshop for Sweden's food strategy.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-853	Madam President, I would like There were many points made by the Minister for Rural Development in his speech. Then we see how far there is between words and actions. Equal conditions, perhaps not necessarily the same, with our competitor countries, mainly Germany, Denmark and Finland, in terms of competitiveness, can be about rules on agriculture and the environment, taxation on fuel, wage costs, government behaviour towards individual entrepreneurs and so on. We in Sweden Democrats want to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish dairy farmers through a grazing compensation of SEK 1 000 per dairy cow and year – 320 million to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish dairy farmers. Why do the Social Democrats think that it is a stupid proposal, as Isak From said here, to strengthen the competitiveness of farmers? We do not want there to be any competitive disadvantage. Why do the Social Democrats want that? What does the Minister for Rural Development intend to do in a possible government position in 2019 with regard to the refund of diesel tax on agricultural and forestry machinery? It is reduced from 1.70 to 1.43 in the government budget. It would be interesting to find answers to these questions, especially when planning to present an animal welfare bill with grazing requirements and animal welfare payments. How does the Minister view this?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-857	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your appreciation for my speech. I still take it as an estimate. From words to actions, it shouldn't be far, nor is it. When the decision on a national food strategy was passed in broad agreement here in Parliament, we directly put in 1 billion for measures and workshops to comply with the food strategy. A grazing allowance, which the honourable Member here is referring to, may be available in the future with a changed CAP. Today there is no such possibility. You try to give a picture that doesn't really match reality. It was a workshop that the honourable Member wanted, wasn't it? I think it is important that we highlight the Swedish added value in food production. When I started this job as a minister there was no brand From Sweden on food. I raised this discussion with the industry and said that it is possible that we have to legislate but that I thought voluntary labelling would be very good. Today we have voluntary labelling in place. Swedish food is doing very well. We have about 7 000 products today that are labelled with From Sweden. What do these Swedish foods stand for? Well, they stand for the best animal welfare in the world. They represent a primary production that is the world champion of environmental thinking. They represent Europe's and the EU's lowest use of antibiotics. When I go to China on promotional trips, they want to buy Swedish products, not because we are sloppy, but because we have the world's best food safety and the world's best food, and they are prepared to pay for it.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-864	Madam President, Mr Bucht, Minister for Rural Development. Sweden is the only country in the EU that has a statutory grazing requirement that means that cows should be out between two and four months depending on where they are in the country. Beta provides better health and the possibility of natural behaviour for cows, an open landscape and biodiversity. But it is still a huge competitive disadvantage for our Swedish dairy farmers vis-à-vis our neighbouring countries. In order to strengthen competitiveness, we want to allocate this SEK 1 000 per dairy cow, where there is a lot of work and additional costs. This is also about the good will, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht; it is not that it is impossible to introduce this. You can't say that. We value Swedish milk production and want this animal welfare allowance. We also reduce diesel tax to the Danish level, i.e. 7 cents per litre. This is a decrease of 4.17 compared to the government budget. We value the competitiveness of Swedish dairy farmers and Swedish agriculture, and we know – like many others here – that the Social Democrats are not farmers' best friends. That's what we've learned over the years.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-867	Madam President, I would like We have a law on grazing, yes. As it is designed as a law, with the system in place for the common agricultural policy today, we cannot provide any compensation. This can change in a new agricultural policy, which is currently under discussion. However, what has been done during this parliamentary term is to create a little more flexibility in the regulatory framework. I meet a lot of farmers and farmers, and it's very, very rarely they mention this as a problem. But in this hall, from time to time, there are those who play this as the worst in the world. That is not the case, Madam President. Even the representative of the entire Ica movement clearly says in the media: Do not remove the bait drive! Make sure it's still there! Then we hear the Member of the Swedish Democrats line up proposals on proposals here, Madam President. However, when it is voted in the House, it votes on the Moderates' budget and votes against all the proposals it has spoken about. I think it will be – I do not know whether to use the strong word – misleading, Madam President.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-870	Madam President, I would like Many thanks to the Minister for Rural Affairs for being present in the debate! We very much appreciate the opportunity to debate the budget and ask questions to the Minister. I must say, however, that I think it is quite strong for the Minister to stand and talk about profitability which has been strengthened as if it were a result of the work of the government. Looking at the development, profitability has been strengthened for mainly pig and nut, and it has been an ongoing development since 2014, when we had a debate on antibiotic use. It may not be directly linked to the government's efforts. The milk has also been strengthened, and that is not surprising given how tough the situation has been in recent years. Plant cultivation now has a very tough situation and actually a rather weak profitability, so the picture that is painted may not be entirely consistent with reality. I also think that it may be a bit bleak for the Minister to stand here and suggest that the fact that there is voluntary labelling at the moment is largely due to the Minister having had a discussion with the food industry. Already in 2011 they started with the labelling of Swedish meat, and voluntary labelling is something that has actually developed since then. However, what I think is needed when talking about the food strategy is precisely action here and now – anti-competitive measures here and now. Isak From did a review here earlier, and he talked about measures related to trade fairs and marketing. I think these are good measures, certainly, but these are things that will not actually be noticed out there at farm level. After all, we have agreed to strengthen competitiveness. My question is simply what the government will do to actually strengthen competitiveness and profitability at farm level here and now.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-876	Madam President, I would like With regard to the problem of the profitability of crop production, which I know very well and which has come this year, it has to do with world market prices in this area. There is a clear connection to that. There was a very clear link to this also in the milk crisis we had a few years ago. These product prices are now controlled on a world market. We can line up a long series of efforts that the government put in during the milk crisis. It was methane gas reduction, it was a special support for the dairy farmers and it was cloven-hoof care. For the first time in a very long time, the reduction in diesel taxation was improved. After all, Madam President, Mr Yngwe's government deteriorated the diesel tax reduction four times over eight years. The diesel tax was increased twice. It is clear that these efforts were important at the time, when agriculture was under great pressure. I also think that we need to talk about other things than agriculture when we have this debate, Madam President, because it affects so many other areas. I tried to do so and describe this in the discussion with Mr Oscarsson just now. In the 2018 budget, we are making an All-Sweden investment of 1.2 billion – 1.2 billion! We also announce SEK 750 million in an investment in the rural bill for 2019 and SEK 750 million for 2020. Then there's 400 million. This is a historic investment in Swedish rural areas that has never been made before.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-879	Madam President, I would like I can see that we have enough to look forward to the forthcoming proposals to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture at farm level, because the Minister does not talk much about what is coming in the future. I am, however, pleased that the Minister is talking about investments in rural areas, because that was the next question I was curious about. The Minister has spoken about the whole country initiative, which for 2018 is about 1.2 billion. In order to put it a little bit in perspective and compare it with other investments, it is less money than the deduction for the union fee that the government introduces in 2018. So that is the rural effort we are talking about. However, money has been invested, as I said, and the Minister is talking about the rural bill that is to come. I look forward very much to a rural bill. What I wish, of course, is for the Minister to make contact on the other side and for there to be a broad discussion with the opposition in order to actually anchor. The fact that there is already work going on that does not include the members of the investigation, I hope, is guaranteed. It is therefore a question: will the Minister ensure that there really is a broad parliamentary discussion before the bill that is coming? I am also curious about the investments linked to the bill. Since the bill is not there yet but there are bets made, I'm a little curious about what the bets will mean. So that's 197 million for next year and then 750 million for 2019 and 2020. I wonder if the Minister could specify a little more what the money will go to, because it would be interesting to know.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-883	Madam President, I would like I look forward to more cooperation in many different policy areas. I think we need to cooperate more in the small country of Sweden in order to have a good future. Political interaction is important in many different areas. This government has shown on a number of occasions that there is an opportunity to create cross-block cooperation. We'll continue to do that. As far as the policy in this particular area is concerned, there is a great deal of tension between the alliance parties in many respects. But I see that the Center Party has many suggestions that appeal to us in many different paragraphs, so why not a little more cooperation? As far as the bill is concerned, I cannot reveal anything today.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-886	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the invitation to a greater cooperation! That is exactly what I thought we had when we developed this food strategy. The competitiveness inquiry clearly pointed out that we needed to de-bureaucratise parts of the industry and that we should strengthen competitiveness. We agreed on this across all parties, and then the minister went home and settled with the Green Party and went the other way. That's the problem. That's where the minister broke the cooperation. Instead, it set itself on the path of raising taxes by 60 billion. It is claimed that one billion is returned to the countryside and the other, but it goes round the most to the state authorities to control the forest owners in the country so that they actually set off biotopes and manage the different parts. It does not therefore go to forestry production, but to authorities. It is clear that you do not trust that Swedish forest owners can take care of this. Nevertheless, I believe that the Minister can admit with some honesty that we would not have had biodiversity in this country if the small forest owners had not managed their forests differently for decades and centuries. That is what has created biodiversity. It is not the Swedish Forest Agency that has created it, but it is actually the farmers and farmers out there, and I think we should have more respect for that. I'd like to ask you a few questions. The Minister has raised nothing about ensuring that the issues of concern are resolved. The late EU payments do not directly strengthen competitiveness. And why are you opposed to reducing diesel tax? It would well have been taking the outstretched hand of the opposition rather than raising the tax with new index numbers.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-891	Madam President, I would like When Mr Bergheden's party ruled, you raised the diesel tax on six different occasions. You removed the special travel allowance that existed for rural areas, which hit rural areas very hard. You cut taxes very heavily for those who were already well off. It also made it minus 60 billion in the stock market. Of course it was not so much to redistribute to the Swedish countryside. Maybe it wasn't enough for anything. Now that the stock market is full and we have got the economy in order with 80 billion in surplus, where we amortise 40 billion and want 40 billion to invest, then also the honourable Member Bergheden and the Moderates and want to spend. But it is important to make sure that you have money in the stock market and not just spend what others have created. The CAP came very late into place. This also delayed the computer systems for the payment of EU aid. Here, the Government has made efforts to ensure that the Swedish Board of Agriculture receives more resources. We have allocated money for it, but there the bourgeois parties have been against it all along. If they had been given the power, there would have been even later payments of the aid. With regard to the food strategy and the ecological one, I will have to come back in the next round, because time is running out.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-895	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that the Minister beats his chest for the prosperity of the world, Europe and Sweden and believes that it is Social Democratic politics that has created it. I can inform the Minister that this is not actually the case. It is the people and companies out there who have created the growth and also the SEK 60 billion that the Minister has raised. They have taken away from growth and distributed to others. This is the money that the government so generously spends in the rest of the country. We need to start thinking about something. It is booming, and at the moment the nutrition is spinning reasonably well. When the recession comes, it is the one with the strongest competitiveness that will survive. This is when it will be tested whether the policy that the Social Democrats and the Green Party have pursued in the Swedish countryside – to reduce competitiveness by increasing taxes and imposing new charges, new reserves, new rules, controls and other things – makes Swedish agriculture fit. This is where we're going to strengthen them. It is now that we are going to reduce and strengthen competitiveness so that they are ready to cope with the toughest part, which comes after the boom. In a boom, it is easy to sit as a government and distribute the money. The Alliance government managed to save in the barns to cope with the recession that was then, and we received praise for that from many economists throughout Europe. In fact, during the time when we reduced taxes, which the Minister often talks about, we received more tax revenue precisely because we reduced taxes. There were more people working in the country, and there were more companies that were created during this time. That is what created growth, and that is what the government is now playing away. It is easy to distribute other people's money, but how has it strengthened Swedish agriculture? Not at all!
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-900	Madam President, I would like Mrs Bergheden's reasoning that it is booming and that we have been lucky, I have heard very many times. I have come high up in my age and have been involved in politics for quite some time. I have heard this every time a bourgeois government has left large deficits behind, for every time there have been large deficits. Then they say, "You're lucky! It was a boom. We're unlucky. I usually take it that maybe we are lucky and you are unlucky and tell people to vote for those who are lucky and not for those who are unlucky. That's a high risk. When it comes to the organic, there is also a thought about raising the higher level of processing. Organic production and products have a significantly higher price. This is how you work in many companies regardless of the industry, i.e. you lift your products at the processing stage in order to get a higher price. We see that the organic farmers who carry out such production generally have a better profitability. That's it. But we also see that there are countries right next to us, not least Denmark, which invest a lot to take ecological shares in Sweden, because we have a deficit. It is therefore obvious that we should ensure that we can also produce organically, even more than we consume, because we should also be able to export organically. That is what it is about – nothing else.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-905	Madam President, I would like I wasn't going to discuss luck or bad luck, but I can declare that I'm at least an optimist in most areas. I was just listening to the Minister and wondering when he would get to the fishing, and he actually came to the fishing in the end. It was good so far that he praised the value of fishing and so on. I am well aware, as I also mentioned in my speech, that it is assessed that the pelagic system of transferable fishing rights introduced in 2009 has become as intended and fulfils its purpose. I remember when we were gonna do this. At the time we had a completely different political debate, and it did not feel as if the Social Democrats with whom I was discussing at the time praised the introduction. But it is a good thing that we have come to the point that we can say that this should continue, because the long-term nature of fishing and really in all companies is incredibly important. The Minister mentioned the simplification work in his speech; I do not know whether it was specifically about fisheries, but it was at least very important. We must admit that whatever government it has been, fishing is precisely the area around which we may have failed the most. I am sure that shows the follow-up that has been carried out, and that is what the government that I supported, and also the current government, will take on board: we have failed there. Are there any concrete proposals that the Minister is working on right now or that the Government intends to put forward with regard to regulatory simplifications for fisheries?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-910	Madam President, I would like It is good that we are allowed to discuss fisheries, which is an important industry and an important part of the food strategy. The resources of the sea are limited, and it is important that we manage the stocks we have in a wise and good way so that we have fishing also in the future. The eel was mentioned earlier in the debate. If we do not manage it wisely and well, we will not be able to fish eel, and then we will not be able to have eel on the Christmas table in the future. We should eat more fish, shellfish and algae. It is important to develop aquaculture, which is lagging behind in Sweden if we compare with our neighbour Norway. There they have a hundred times as much aquaculture as we do. The government is proposing several measures to stimulate aquaculture and fisheries. This is an important measure. I have a question for Lars Tysklind. I listened carefully to the speeches of all the alliance parties. Tysklind talked about wanting to increase environmental taxes and new leakage taxes. He was hesitant about diesel tax and diesel subsidies. Gammelskogen would have stronger protection, and one would have clean methods. Which partner will the Liberals choose with regard to that post?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-914	Madam President, I would like I am not going to have a partnership discussion here tonight. The Minister left the regulations and fisheries quite quickly and started talking about aquaculture instead. It is about confidence in the future, not least in order to get a new recruitment to fisheries, and then there must be predictable rules. I think the Minister is quite aware that, if we ignore pelagic fishing, there are a lot of other things going on in fisheries that need to be addressed so that the future conditions are put in place both in terms of quota distribution and profitability. There is, for example, trade in quotas outside the system also in demersal fisheries. We must land in this so that we have a long-term system, because it is very important for the recruitment of new fishermen. I don't think I heard any example of a regulatory simplification that the government is actually working on.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-918	Madam President, I would like We're working on regulatory simplifications for fishing, because it's necessary. We want to extend the system for pelagic fisheries. It's ten years old. As far as demersal fishing is concerned, trade is one year old, and it has worked well. There is no point today in introducing anything other than the system we have today. Another issue that concerns us very much is, of course, Brexit and the negotiations that are now taking place between the Commission and the United Kingdom. For a long time, 17 per cent of the water used by Swedish fishing is in the UK. That is why it is very important that we can have a good agreement. We have also set up a group of industry and officials to deal with this in order to provide the Commission with a good basis for these negotiations. This issue must be resolved in a good way to ensure the future of important Swedish sea fishing. As I mentioned in my speech, profitability has increased considerably, so we should be careful about this fishing.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-923	Madam President, I would like The budget we are now debating is the third budget for this orientation period. This means that we will soon be halfway through the focus decision that was taken in 2015. Madam President, I would like The Liberals chose to remain out of the deal that led to the orientation decision that year. Our main justification for this was that we judged the defence decision to be too underfunded. I am of the opinion that all defence decisions in modern times, including all major development projects, have been underfunded from the outset, but it is my assessment that in 2015 we set some sort of historical record in this regard. This is confirmed by the fact that, in the course of this year, additional arrangements have been needed in order to achieve a balance between the tasks ordered by the Riksdag and the finances at the disposal of the Armed Forces. Early this spring, the Moderates, the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats raised an additional SEK 500 million, and in a second settlement in August, which the Christian Democrats themselves did not participate in, a further ECU 8.1 billion was added. Despite this: In today's Svenska Dagbladet, Sweden's Supreme Commander is interviewed, and he is clear that the Swedish Armed Forces need far more resources. It is missing, says General Bydén, equipment and personnel in many places. We can't go on like this year after year. We lose the trust and loyalty of our employees," he says. Madam President, I would like It is with a heavy heart that I can see that despite the agreements that have taken place during the year to improve funding, the defence budget as a proportion of GDP will fall next year compared to 2017. This means that, despite their ambitions, the arrangements are in relative terms a continuation of cuts. This crayfish decline continues until 2020, when we have fallen to 1.09% of GDP under the current framework. Madam President, I would like Liberals report another economic future for Sweden's defence. Our 2020 budget represents 1.3 per cent of GDP, or, in other words, 17 billion more than what the government and its partner parties report for this focus period. Madam President, I would like We have also laid a stairway after 2020, and it extends until 2026. At the later date, with our proposals the defence allocation will amount to just over 2% of the bnp. Now everyone is thinking that it is natural for a NATO-friendly party like the Liberals to land at just 2%. I would add, Madam President, that if military alliance freedom is claimed, it is claimed that all tasks will be carried out on its own. The logical thing then is that you land well above the 2%. Perhaps it will be much more, if not what Sweden had in the 60's when we were close to 3%. ÖB explains the financial shortcomings of the Swedish Armed Forces with the large purchases of the fighter aircraft Gripen E and the new submarines A26. It's a great project. Once they are delivered, perhaps somewhere in the mid-2020s, they will of course contribute to our ability. Let me point out that it is no use to get expensive fine platforms if you cannot afford to man them at the same time, arm them and make sure that we can practice with them. In addition to submarines and fighter planes, we also have the army. The army is part of the report we are discussing today. It is an announcement made by the committee regarding the acquisition of a new mid-range anti-aircraft system. A broad majority in the Riksdag agrees that before making the deal definitive, the government must anchor its decision to the Riksdag. It is not just a matter of presenting prices and what material we get for the price tag that is set. It is about reporting how often the systems need to be upgraded, how long they can be upgraded, what life cycle cost they have and what effect this acquisition will have, not least for the army, on the other needs of the Armed Forces. Madam President, I would like We know that what is called the base plate suffers. There is a lack of standard equipment, uniforms, ammunition, trucks and other basic equipment precisely for our ground forces. Another important change is that we do not give the government an open authorisation to sell all or part of our current combat aircraft 39C/ D. Such sales may only take place if it increases operational availability precisely to the C/ D system. It's an important thing. If you do not have such a limitation, resources from the C/ D system easily slide to what is the future, namely Gripen E and its development. It's an old saying, but it's still true: it's better with a bird in your hand than ten in the woods. There is also an announcement concerning logistics for higher preparedness. The government is now making sure to move ground workshops, air workshops and more back to the Swedish Armed Forces. That's a good step. But if the Armed Forces are to be able to mobilise their military units quickly, they must also be responsible for maintaining the equipment. Only by having the same organization in peacetime, in crisis and in war will we ensure that we can deal with rapid and violent events. Madam President, I would like Since 2011, there have been different conditions for military and civilian personnel in international operations. That is why the committee has agreed on a declaration on assistance and support for civil servants in international action and their relatives. It is a little incomprehensible to me that the Social Democrats have resisted on this point. The Social Democrats are a party that has always stood for a level playing field in the labour market. I am therefore pleased, Madam President, that we are now in broad agreement on the part of Parliament to ensure that all are included. Madam President, I would like Sometimes it feels like you've been there from the beginning but that our reality somehow restarts. In the '90s and '00s, the regimental death in our country raged. The culmination was reached in 2000 and 2001 in two defence decisions. Then the regimental death turned into a formal slaughter on our military units. Also in 2004 some bandages were laid down. Since then, the organisation has remained unchanged, not least during the eight years of the Alliance's responsibility for defence policy in the country. Today is a historic day. On Tuesday at 3.30 p.m., the Riksdag decides to establish a new regiment, namely Gotland Regiment. We should know that this is the first time since 1975 that it has happened in our country. It is great that I have seen the difficult years, Madam President, to be involved here today. Madam President, I would like I shall conclude by calling for the approval of reservations 11 and 12.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-942	Madam President, I would like We are currently having a very good development in Sweden. It's going well financially. We may have the highest employment rate in 25 years. Bnp is increasing, and forecasts indicate that we will be at just over 3% in surplus in central government finances. The government has now presented a budget of 40 billion for reforms and 40 billion for financial savings. That's great. But in my visits back home in Östergötland, which is my constituency, I meet many people who feel quite uncomfortable. They feel anxious and perhaps a fear. It can be very varied. It may be that they are concerned about how men behave and how men behave in groups. It could be criminal gangs. It could be about Putin's development and how they view him, or it could be about the climate threat. There are a number of different things that cause concern. I think you should take that very seriously. Among the security issues, the Swedish Armed Forces is the largest and first part. It is about securing the country and its territory. It is clear that the developments that have taken place in Russia affect us in the countries around the Baltic Sea. I am pleased that we now have a government that for the first time in many years strengthens Sweden's defence capabilities. It hasn't happened in very many years that we've done it. During this term of office, resources have increased. It has been very clear, and I do not think it has escaped anyone, that it is important that we increase the operational capability of our war units and strengthen the total defence. It has been a long time since we talked about these issues in Sweden. We are now spending more than 50 billion on Category 6 for defence and society's emergency preparedness. There has been an increase since 2015 when we presented our first budget. This also means that we are now focusing on the Swedish Armed Forces being able to practice more and expand their competence. It is about investing in refresher training in order to be able to take advantage of the skills that exist before and the personal equipment. It is important that we invest in this in order for confidence in the Swedish Armed Forces to be high. It may not be the huge material projects, but they are important. I am also pleased that we can find such a broad majority in the Swedish parliament and that Social Democrats, environmentalists, Moderates and Center Partyists can agree on that. I think that's good. It is a good signal to the country that we have a great deal of agreement on it. It is always the case that security and security are not built alone. We must do so together with other countries. JEF is a very good example, where the Nordic countries, together with the UK and Holland, are building cooperation. It's important. It is also important when Britain leaves the European Union that we have that relationship. This is a good development for northern Europe. Madam President, I would like We've completed Aurora 17 a few months ago. It was the first great defense force's exercise in many years. There have been over 20 000 people who have participated in it. I had the privilege of visiting the exercise myself. I was at the second helicopter squadron. It's the one that's close to my heart. It has its base in Linköping, but now we were in the forests of Närke and watched. I am impressed by the quality and knowledge that is shown. But it also turns out that there are shortcomings after this period when we have not invested in national defence. They gave clear signals that logistics and connections are not working properly. After all, we have invested in being able to go out into the world and jacket us somewhere to carry out our effort, and if we are now to build up the national defence is this important part. During the year, a government inquiry has presented its proposals in the Logistics report for higher defence preparedness. Now the government has proposed that workshops, stores and services should leave FMV and join the Swedish Armed Forces. I think that's good. But we Social Democrats, together with the Green Party in the government, have said that we would like to wait when it comes to maintenance and procurement. The government has signalled that one would have to look at this a little extra, and we think that is wise. We investigate first, and then we make decisions. It's the usual time. Madam President, I would like During this period, important material projects have been carried out. There have been heavy decisions about the fighter flight and our underwater capabilities. These are great things, and they are so important that we call them national security interests. It is possible that the radar competence we have in Sweden should also be added there, but it is perhaps another discussion. Today, we are also deciding on medium-range anti-aircraft. I think this is important. It may not be quite in line with the other things, but it is an important decision. I think it is important to protect Sweden and our military bases. This could be about protecting the port of Norrköping, which is close to me, or protecting our capital. I'm glad the government has sent the offer and that it's Patriot we're looking at. I think that's good. It is secure and strengthens the transatlantic link. It is also important to say that the authorisation we give to the Government to decide whether this acquisition should be anchored in the Riksdag. This should be done through, for example, a letter; the important thing is that there is a feedback on what the decision will look like. Then, of course, there is a long journey left. I think I'll stay there. I shall conclude by calling for the approval of reservation No 3.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-956	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by complementing Mattias Ottosson. I think it is a good speech that is being made, and in many parts I share the same view. Then it is important to remember that in the field of defence, the actual implementation, not just the commitments, is of great importance. It is usually there, Madam President, that it becomes a little critical. However, on two points I have questions. One is that you say, Mattias Ottosson, that in terms of logistics you move over workshops and stores but then in peace and quiet want to investigate the future. After all, this has been the subject of an investigation, and not just any investigation. It is Ingemar Wahlberg, the former head of the Committee on Defence, who has stood for it, and I myself have heard the Minister for Defence Hultqvist here in this House commend this investigation in all its different parts. I was a little surprised, Madam President, when the Social Democrats in the committee chose to opt out of this continuation. I would like to ask Mattias Ottosson: is it really your view that further investigations are needed before decisions can be made? Question number two concerns today's interview with ÖB. There have been additions during the year in several different rounds. Now ÖB says that the cost increases that have been received as a result of changes in exchange rates and price changes have become even worse. They were 6.5 billion last year and will, he estimates, be even higher in the forthcoming budget base. In what way do the Social Democrats intend to help the Armed Forces with these costs, over which they themselves do not have control?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-960	Madam President, I would like These are two very important questions that Allan Widman is asking. I think we have some agreement on the matter. What has to do with logistics is an important part for the Swedish Armed Forces to function and for the national defence to be able to rebuild. It is a very solid investigation that has been carried out, and I share much of the conclusions of the investigation. So does the government. I think it was really a huge misthinking to transfer the supplies, workshops and services to FMV. It was a product of another time, much like the outsourcing of IT systems and such things. If there's anything I think we should keep to ourselves, it's defence and that sort of thing. FMV is, of course, part of this. I don't think there's much difference between us there. We also think that you should transfer workshops and service to the Swedish Armed Forces again and that it makes it effective. But when it comes to maintenance and procurement there, the lawyers of the Government Office have said that one should look at this again so that one does not get wrong in terms of major investment decisions, accountability and such things. It doesn't have to be a long investigation, but we have the idea that we investigate things and then make decisions to make it right. I think that sometimes you should listen to lawyers – they may have something to add to the political discussion as well. Right, Allan Widman?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-965	Madam President, I would like Yes, in the political discussion they may have, but after many years in the defence policy I feel quite sceptical about the difficulties that state lawyers often see when changing activities. Let me say, Madam President, that the Social Democrats were not against the so-called logistics reform. They also signed a firm when it was carried out four years ago. In addition, the Swedish Armed Forces are already conducting public procurement in a wide range of areas. It is difficult for me to understand why this could be done in certain areas, but not in this. Unfortunately, Madam President, I believe that there are forces within the Government Office who do not want the Armed Forces to be given responsibility for maintaining them. They see how the Swedish Armed Forces will then impose higher demands on the material to be available and immediately usable. This costs money. That is where, Madam President, we have condemned the unwillingness expressed by Mattias Ottosson. We've had two complementary deals. We have contributed SEK 8.6 billion this year. When this has been presented at a press conference, it has been said that it should be done to secure the acquisition of medium-range anti-aircraft and for the purchase of various items. But the ÖB is sitting with a black hole. There were 6.5 billion this spring. He now suggests that it will be even bigger by spring, when the next budget base comes. In what way does the government intend to help the Armed Forces with this gigantic problem, which the ÖB today says will strike directly at training and training of soldiers, the only costs that he can influence?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-970	Madam President, I would like In order to conclude this logistics exchange, I think we agree on the substance, and I believe that the government and the Liberals will find a deal in which we can resolve this, too, by maintaining it. In fact, we share the same view: it should be carried over. I am fully aware that the Social Democrats are behind this decision, but it is always the case that it is a government that is ultimately responsible; I never think that the opposition should be responsible. When it comes to the financial contribution following the statements made by the Commander-in-Chief, it is clear that you should listen to the Swedish Armed Forces. We are now in a situation where the government provides resources. This has been done during this period, for the first time in a very long time. Historically, in the 20th century, only Tage Erlander and his government could really take credit for building up Swedish defence capabilities. There are probably all of us who are active today quite a lot in lee. I think it is important to stress, Allan Widman, that the resources allocated to the defence decisions we have taken – and we have provided money because we have seen that the needs have existed – are based on the Swedish Armed Forces' own calculations. I think it's important that we bring it with us. That is what has been the basis of the decisions we have taken. I think it is important now after the budget decision that we do not take today but that we take on Tuesday that the Swedish Armed Forces may look at the basis when it is ready. Of course, if there is something of great importance, you have to deal with it. I think it is important to remember that all the decisions we have made are based on the Swedish Armed Forces' own calculations of the needs. Then, of course, resources are finite, so it is always.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-975	Madam President, I would like The budget debate on defence came to be quite much later this Thursday night than many might have planned. The reason is that parliamentary committees have debated other important areas such as the EU Commission's proposed work programme for 2018 and the draft budget for agricultural, rural and food sectors. The fact that it has been frivolous and therefore taken a little longer than planned may of course have to do with the participation of the responsible minister for each area. It is both gratifying and appreciated that ministers take responsibility for their issues when they are discussed in the Riksdag. Now we're going to discuss the defence budget. Yesterday, we discussed cooperation in Europe within the framework of Pesco on defence and crisis management. Madam President, I would like The ministerial benches are empty. They're empty. I do not know how many of the other budgetary areas have no minister to defend their policies, but in this important area of defence for us we do not have a responsible minister in this House. With all due respect for Mattias Ottosson, Anders Schröder and yesterday also Alexandra Völker – they are good people and colleagues that I appreciate – I find it regrettable that the Minister is not in place when the government is to defend and explain its policy as it looks today and as it will look tomorrow and as one intends to go to elections on. Nevertheless, Madam President, let me express in praise the constructive spirit that characterises the work of the Committee on Defence with the strong commitment of many Members, well-coordinated by President Widman. Although there are differences of opinion, it is a true pleasure to work together with all the others with the ambition to strengthen Swedish defence capabilities and to do the right for both the Swedish Armed Forces and a Swedish total defence. Honours to Members, but the ministerial bench is still gaping empty. Madam President, I would like This is about the last budget report in the Committee on Defence before the 2018 elections. Since the Russian aggression against Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014, there has been a reversal of Swedish defence policy. There is a broad consensus on the new direction towards a focus on national defence and on the challenges in the neighbourhood. We Moderates have contributed to efforts in the framework of three defence arrangements that have been made over the last three years. When we have set different levels or said that there is a need for additional contributions here and now it has usually been dismissed in the debate as appropriations. I can see that every deal has since ended up at precisely the economic levels that we moderates have pointed out. The important thing is not that this is good for an individual party or that it is good for the Riksdag. The important thing is that it is good for the Armed Forces and all women and men who are part of it. But it hasn't been budget bingo. However, this will not be enough. As the Swedish Armed Forces have pointed out on several occasions, the Swedish ability to reduce relative to the efforts made in our neighbourhood, and in particular in the Russian Federation. The Commander-in-Chief points out the course as late as in today's Svenska Dagbladet. I quote Micael Bydén : ah, the only thing we can do according to the rules of the game is to continue with this economy and then shift our ability forward and we need to set tough priorities right now. We will not be able to invest and keep the capacity beyond 2020 at the level it is at today. ..................................................... Therefore, the defence policy ambition needs to be further enhanced in Sweden. The Moderates propose that Sweden's defence expenditure should amount to 2 per cent of GDP. The ambition is to implement it over a ten-year period. In the long term, this means doubling Sweden's defence appropriations compared to today. In concrete terms, it also means that we in the Moderates' draft budget for the period 2018–2020, that is to say, what is in the budget papers, propose that the defence should be added a further SEK 9.6 billion in addition to the contributions that are within the framework of the latest defence arrangement and what the government proposes. It is a first step in our ambition to raise the defence budget up to 2% of GDP. The extra money should be used to ensure that the new medium-sized anti-aircraft system is introduced as early as possible, that the JAS Gripen system is made more war-worthy and that the necessary efforts are made to improve the conditions for the employees of the Armed Forces. With this money, we prevent one project from crowding out the other or one good ambition from being sacrificed for the other. It is not only the Moderates who have landed in the need for a 2% defence target. The entire Alliance agrees on the need for strengthened defence capabilities and thus increased resources. In Sweden's immediate neighbourhood, most countries are in exactly the same direction. Europe must take greater responsibility for its own security, and that is why it is a natural development that more and more countries are increasing their defence efforts. We Moderates have pointed out on a number of occasions that now is the time for us defence policies not only to talk figures but also to actually have a deep discussion about how we develop the defence capabilities and to give the Armed Forces good and long-term planning conditions. There is a need for a debate on the substance itself. In the deteriorating security situation Sweden is in, we cannot afford to be short-term and let political locks govern. This is absolutely true whether we are talking about the budget or the red-greens are trying to take shelter behind an increasingly windswept and torn-down rhetorical concept of alliance freedom. The budget report makes decisions on the increases in appropriations agreed by the Moderates and the Center Party with the Social Democrats and the Green Party. However, the report also contains a series of so-called announcements to the government on several important points. Let me mention a few. The report authorises the Government to proceed with the acquisition of the new air defence with a medium scope, but also requires the Government to return to the Riksdag to report on the development of costs and the progress of the project. As the acquisition of a new anti-aircraft is among the most expensive equipment projects we will have alongside JAS Gripen and the next generation of submarines, it is also reasonable that it should be anchored in the Riksdag. Furthermore, in the case of materials, the Riksdag also announces to the Government that the Swedish Armed Forces should be given immediate responsibility for the maintenance of the agency's materials and related public procurement. In addition, the committee underlines the importance of maintaining the availability of JAS 39 C/ D in connection with the government's authorisation to take decisions on the export of fighter aircraft in 2018. It is important that the committee has made these announcements to the government. The Parliament has assumed its responsibilities and ensured that core values in the defence policy, as a focus on operational capabilities and good cost control, are taken into account. Finally, the committee proposes, on the one hand, an announcement that the government should return to Parliament with proposals for a special law to support and assist civilians who have made an international effort, and, on the other hand, an announcement on the role of defence music. Veteran issues, as Mr Widman has developed, have in recent years taken an increasing place both in defence policy and in society. Under the alliance government, the first efforts were made to create a coherent veteran policy, and the Veteran investigation produced a number of proposals aimed at both strengthening support for our veterans and giving them greater recognition for their efforts. Some of these proposals have now been implemented. Next year, for example, Veteran Day on 29 May will for the first time be a general flag day in Sweden. Here, in particular, we in the Alliance have been the driving force for the flag day. However, there is more to do to increase support for veterans and their relatives. Basically, we will not only celebrate and honor the veterans one day a year, but of course we will celebrate and honor them every day of the year. But one day we have turned into a public flag day and have a state ceremonial around it. The coming years will involve several trials on how we work further to make Sweden safer in an increasingly uncertain environment. Discussions are ongoing within the framework of the Defence Committee, which will lead to a basis for the direction of the next defence decision. I believe and hope that the preparation will be able to land in good and widely-based proposals that ensure a sustainable increase in Sweden's defence capabilities. I myself have indicated and believe in the reasonable framework that we are working together, side by side, up to 2% of GDP in joint defence efforts. Madam President, I would like It is worth repeating, however, that we are faced with an electoral movement that may be subjected to pressure campaigns by foreign power. We have already seen this happen in the context of general elections in a wide range of countries. It will place great demands on the Swedish society's ability to handle, for example, cyber attacks and the dissemination of disinformation. Given the shortcomings revealed in both the government's and our authorities' ability to manage the safety failure at the Swedish Transport Agency, there is reason for concern and an understanding that efforts are needed to strengthen the overall capability of both crisis preparedness and civilian and military defence. We need a modern total defence that can meet all the threats and risks, military and civilian, that Sweden will face. There is also reason to consider the Swedish emergency preparedness. What happened during the summer – the way the government ducks, fumbles and famlandes – does not impress but should form the basis for lessons and for doing the right thing. Madam President, I would like We Moderates will bear our responsibility for bringing this about. We are willing to increase resources to the defense considerably. We are prepared to hold a broad political dialogue in order to fill the policy with relevant content. It lays a good foundation for a safer Sweden. Madam President, I would like With those words, I would like to endorse our reservation 8.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1001	Madam President, I would like We have six reservations in the report. But for time winning, I request consent to only reservation 4 and 6. When the Swedish Democrats were new to Parliament, we were alone in three main aspects of the defence policy. We were alone in suggesting that the invasion defense be reinstated. We were alone in wanting to reinstate basic training for conscripts. And we were the only ones who wanted to increase the defence budget significantly. Today has changed a lot. Following the 2015 defense decision, all parties want to reintroduce the invasion defence and basic training of conscripts. We are, of course, pleased with this development. The strategic timeout resulting from the 2000 defence decision is today history, as is the Afghanistan doctrine, which said that Sweden's defence begins in Afghanistan. For a non-aligned country like Sweden, its own national defence should be the main task. I think most Swedes thought it was that way even during the strategic timeout. But that was not the case. The Swedish total defence was discontinued after the 2000 defence decision. Now that the invasion defense is to be reinstated, we can only conclude that it would have been simpler and cheaper if we had never dismantled the total defense. The strategic timeout was a big mistake. It was also a big mistake to phase out the basic training of conscripts. Following the defence decisions of 1992 and 1996, the general basic training of conscripts ceased. And after the 2009 defense decision, basic training was completely discontinued by conscripts. During the intervention defence between 2004 and 2014, there was a coin on the concept of military service. We experienced this not least in this House. It is and was counterproductive to emulate and reduce the concept of military service. In the end, military service is central to our defence. Volunteering has its role, through the NGOs and the Home Guard and for those who take up employment in the Swedish Armed Forces. The role is played by being the system that allows for increased preparedness and the full mobilization of the total defence. The matter is an honorable concept. It tells us that our defence is in common, that we together have responsibility for protecting Sweden's survival and freedom. It is wrong to say that volunteering alone is the good thing and that the duty should be used as little as possible. That is wrong because duty is an honorable concept. The abolition of basic training for conscripts meant that we could no longer fill our units fully, even though we have only two brigades in the target framework. Eventually, this shortage was recognized, and older conscripts were placed in the brigades. In the case of the brigades are two planned, but we only have one available now. Thus, when the basic training of conscripts ended, it became difficult to man the army's field units. But that was not the only problem that arose. The recruitment overall suffered. It has been accentuated that the initial training of conscripts to a large extent brings young people closer to a later voluntary commitment to defence. As a result, all recruitment to the armed forces was made more difficult when the basic training of conscripts ceased. The question arises today as to why this unfortunate step was taken. We left general military training, the one that Finland still has. But why were we not satisfied with the transition, like Norway and Denmark, to partial military training? The experiment of not training conscripts became a disaster. Now we are shutting down this human resources experiment. Bit by bit, we return to a natural order of defense. Unfortunately, there is still a bit missing. It's a factor that can't be rounded. That's the envelope, the defence envelope, category 6. In order to develop an invasion defense, a defence grant of about 2 percent of the bnp is needed. Most people agree on that. In fact, the grant might be 3% of GDP over a number of years, while a number of major equipment systems are procured and then fall back to 2 – 2.5%. For many years, SD has been aiming to set a stairway for the defence budget so that it can gradually increase to 2% of GDP. Now all the alliance parties have made similar statements. That's very good. However, the credibility of these statements is tested by the parties' budget movements in the Riksdag. Only if, in the three-year state budget, priority increases in defence appropriations have been shown to be serious. If we dive into the budget movements and look at that, we see that the Swedish Democrats are investing SEK 18 billion more than the government in three years. We also see that the Liberals are investing SEK 17 billion more than the government in three years, as Allan Widman said earlier. There are therefore two parties that are budgeting for a substantial increase in the defence budget: the Swedish Democrats and the Liberals. And two parties are much better than nothing. In the long run, however, it is crucial if we can get a majority in this House in order to significantly increase the defence budget. In the 2015 defense decision, the Government had an impact on a rehabilitation rate of SEK 1 billion per year. At that rate, it will take 60 - 70 years to build a fully expanded invasion defense. With the pace that the Swedish Democrats and Liberals are budgeting for, it will take 10 – 12 years. That's a crucial difference. There is talk of rearmament and additions now that we are discussing the defence budget. But if we look at Sipri's comparisons of the defence grant, we see that all the governments from Olof Palme and beyond have reduced the defence grant. When Olof Palme took office in 1969, the defence grant was 3.46 per cent of the bnp. When Carl Bildt took office in 1991, the figure was 2.28. When Fredrik Reinfeldt took office in 2006, the figure was 1.33. And when Stefan Löfven took office in 2014, the figure was 1.14. After three years with the government Löfven, the figure has now shrunk to 1.04%. From 2018 onwards, the renovation will take place at the pace set by the 2015 Defence Decision. This means that by 2020 the defence budget will increase to 1.10 percent of GDP. The defence grant will therefore be lower than when the government Löfven took office. What are the consequences, then, of having a very low level of defence and of a very low rate of rehabilitation? One of the consequences is quite obvious. After we ordered only 60 new Gripen Erik we buy only one battalion with anti-aircraft. Having scaled down the air defence so far, we can see that there is very little money left for other equipment purchases. So, with the current defence policy, we cannot build an invasion defence. The defence budget must be substantially increased. The Swedish Democrats believe that the defence grant must be increased so that in 2035 we can have 160 – 200 Gripen Erik, eight army brigades, three amphibious brigades where more than 50 percent are conscripts, anti-aircraft battalions in each brigade, ten submarines, ten corvettes and also distribution units. We heard earlier here in the debate that we in the parties must outline in the rough perspective what defence we are proposing. Now we have said ours. It would be good if the rest of the parties could speak out.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1021	Madam President, I would like I am among those who wish the Liberals every success in being on the right side of the margins. I hope that it will continue to characterise the work of the party in this House. Madam President, I would like The interesting thing is – as Mikael Jansson said – that more parties are talking and putting forward proposals that are about wanting defence efforts equivalent to 2 percent of the bnp. There are a little different stairs, and it is expressed in a little different ways. The interesting question is really why you do it. This does not happen in a vacuum. You don't just write a formulation or re-use something that's anno dazumal. Nor do they use formulations that the mothballs have preserved since the 60s, 70s and 80s. This takes place in a context and in a whole. What unites Moderates, Liberals, Center Partyists and Christian Democrats is that we see the right gruesome image that exists in our neighbourhood and the threat picture that exists in the Baltic Sea region. The Swedish Democrats are not there. You use the word alliance freedom relatively recurrent. What distinguishes your definition of alliance freedom from that of the Left Party? Then you say repeatedly that our armor does not threaten anyone. But why do we have a defence, Madam President? Yes, it is to meet the threats and challenges that exist in our neighbourhood. It is clear, then, that we are reacting to the armament and threshold reduction that the Russian Federation is engaged in in our neighbourhood. We saw Crimea 2014 and other activities. Our armor has a clear purpose. There's a goal and a thought behind it. Let's say 2% of bnp.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1028	Madam President, I would like As far as the threat is concerned, we Swedish democrats have always taken note of the fact that the Russian armaments create an imbalance that affects the security of our neighbourhood. It was only three four years ago that the Moderates said there was no threat. It was not seen that the Russian armor affected our safety. So that question actually strikes you back, I have to say. By alliance freedom we mean that one can be non-aligned or in an alliance. There's nothing in between. An alliance provides for the attachment of mutual guarantees. We advocate a military alliance – an alliance – with Finland. If we had an alliance with Finland, it would mean that if Finland came to war, Sweden would be there from the first second, helping and participating in the defence. That's how alliances work. You make a peacetime decision that can be effective if there is a war. The declarations of solidarity that recent governments have made have not, as a result, had the effect that Sweden will be able to help if it is war. It is very difficult in times of war to decide to participate. The Alliance decrees that you stick to a statement that you should help. This is about the concept of alliance freedom. I think it's in all the dictionaries, so maybe I don't have to go deeper into it. If Sweden equips as an alliance-free country or if we do so together with Finland, our armaments do not threaten any great power. Nobody thinks we'd be offensive. It definitely has a bearing on security.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1034	Madam President, I would like I will give Mikael Jansson a chance to develop this. I'll just fill in a few supplementary questions. I understand this in that the Swedish Democrats say no to European cooperation. They say no to NATO cooperation. They want to maintain alliancelessness, but they are prepared to build an alliance with a country, namely with Finland. Then Mikael Jansson must develop how security and strength increase in cooperation with 1 country instead of 29 countries. In what way is the alliance policy much stronger with 1 country rather than with 29 countries? It is just as Mikael Jansson says, that if you include this kind of arms fraternity, it is binding. Then Mikael Jansson says that our armor should not threaten anyone. Should Sweden and Finland enter into an alliance, it would not threaten anyone. Madam President, I would like I think we should warn Mikael Jansson that he is using a narrative that is quite dangerous. Some time ago Sweden permanentized its presence on Gotland. As Allan Widman said, we will also make this a regiment. The Russian press then said: Sweden is upgrading strategic island in the Baltic Sea. Therefore, you should be very careful to use this kind of narrative. Mikael Jansson also spoke of an imbalance. The Russian Federation is not an imbalance, but the Russian Federation has deliberately and clearly increased its defence armaments. The illegal annexation of Crimea has shown what it is capable of. Then you use the whole toolbox: disinformation, propaganda, dissemination of this kind of narrative. As a party, you have to think about whether your Members show up in Moscow or in Syria.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1041	Madam President, I would like Again, the Moderates are swinging on the issue of defense than here and there. It was only three years ago that the Moderates were very hard that the defense grant would not increase by a single crown. They said the Russian armor didn't affect our safety. Today they say something quite different. You are not stable in defence policy, unfortunately. We defence policies visit Washington from time to time. The Americans say the most important thing is that we strengthen our defence and take responsibility for our area. Then it is secondary if we join NATO. They say they think it would be good, but it's not central. The key thing is that we are equipping and taking responsibility. It's worth noting. As far as security policy is concerned, there is a balance between the major powers. There is a nuclear balance that is of great importance. Those who advocate NATO membership for Sweden claim that we would then have a much strengthened military capability. Of course it is. Those of us who advocate freedom of alliance believe that if Sweden and Finland – because we will take the same decision – join NATO, then NATO will be on the eastern border of Finland. It can create problems with increased tensions. We think that risk and many others are obvious. The fact that we have a defence alliance with Finland naturally increases the threshold effect. If we are two armed forces capable of defending the threshold effect is raised. Even before the joint effect of the armed forces can be optimised, it will be increased immediately.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1046	Madam President, I would like I thought that Mikael Jansson's speech on the obligation of total defence from the early 1990s until today led to an explanation. I shall begin by saying that I am among those who believe that it was a mistake that the duty came to cease completely for a period of seven years. Now that basic education with duty is resumed from 1 January 2018, we will surely find that it is one thing to say military service but a completely different thing to apply it. Time has passed, and things have been forgotten. However, we are in a situation where it is absolutely necessary. The reason why the decision was reached in 2010 was, I believe, that for a long number of years military service was mishandled. The hills that were taken out in education were reduced. The platoon command training and company command training were abolished. Eventually, the guard soldier was the most common position to be given. It did not even give the opportunity to go on international missions. All rope exercises were abolished. When the recruits got out, it was the last time they saw the regiment. If you do this with duty for a very long time, it loses its popular support. I can tell you that in the last years before 2010, when the duty was abolished, there were more of us who volunteered for the military and for basic education than we could offer room for. As a Liberal, I felt that it was very difficult to explain to voters and not least to young people that people should be taken out with duty when there were enough volunteers. In this country we have something called the principle of proportionality. It means that one should only resort to coercion if the need demands it. The situation was not like that at the time.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1052	Madam President, I would like Of course, the reorganisations that have taken place in defence from time to time and several times have been detrimental to the defence. The need for time to make a change applies to each organisation. Of course it is. Had we Swedish democrats been present at that time, we would have been able to contribute to a more long-term and stable perspective on the whole. It is a lesson for all of us that defence policy must be more stable over time, otherwise resources will be wasted. The strategic timeout is an example of something that will be very costly when we return to total defence. It is not many years since most parties in this House said that civil defence should be of a completely different nature from the old civil defence. It will be a new, efficient and very cheap system. We Swedish democrats said: Interesting! Can we see that sketch? I've been going on about that sketch, but it never came out. I'm sure it'll show up soon. We'll see what it looks like in the Defense Committee's report. Everything suggests that the old total defense was, after all, a pretty good system that we can embrace, reintroduce and further develop. When you select young people who are going to undergo military training, you may take those who show an interest in it. That makes sense to me, too. The numbers given in terms of those to be trained in the basic training of military service per year – 4 000 – 5 000 – are a low figure. We believe that we should work with up to 12 000 – 14 000 per year. But we understand that it may take some time, because we also need people to educate.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1057	Madam President, I would like I believe that the duty will not only solve quantitative problems, but will also solve qualitative ones in Swedish military defence. We notice how it is becoming increasingly difficult to get recruits to the most qualified positions. This is due to the fact that the total sample, the data available, has been significantly narrowed not only since 2010, but in fact much earlier than that. One can wonder why Sweden sank so deep in the strategic timeout. Unfortunately, one of the explanations that I have come up with, Madam President, is linked, on behalf of Mikael Jansson, to the fact that Sweden is, or at least considers itself, militaryly non-aligned. It is my assessment that within NATO, its Member States are pushing each other, while we experienced our strategic timeout. This means, for example, that our small neighbour country in the West, Denmark, claims to be able to fight in the brigade format. It's an ability that we gave up somewhere in the mid-90s. I fully agree with Mikael Jansson that it is not possible to have a cyclical or threat-oriented defence force. When you lose an ability, it takes forever and vast resources to recreate it. Instead, what the Armed Forces have sometimes called a capacity glitches has become a capability app, which has lasted for a very long time. Repairing this is costly, and it takes an infinite amount of time. We need to be more stable. My conclusion, Madam President, is that we would have been more stable in the framework of the NATO defence alliance.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1061	Madam President, I would like As far as the development of Europe is concerned, we are aware that, even among the countries on the continent that are members of NATO, most of them have been very heavily disarmed. The whole of Europe has been dismantled. I'm not going to tell you how to equip NATO countries. But I think it is good for Europe that the US is now demanding NATO members to meet their 2% of GDP requirement. If all NATO Member States in Europe equip up to this 2%, it will strengthen Europe's security. It will indirectly also affect Sweden's security. I share Mr Widman's view that, as an alliance-free group, we should perhaps invest half a percent more than those who are in the defence alliance. Having Denmark as an example and example may not apply to Sweden. After all, Denmark has taken full advantage of the NATO line and has released its capacity range. They are good members of NATO and make strong contributions to international operations. For example, they took a heavy grip in Afghanistan. They play a role that way. The Danish model is therefore not suitable for Sweden. We as non-aligned must have a range of powers. We have thinned the Swedish defence, but we have retained the capability range. However, we have no numbers on the regiments anymore, because they are so few. Nevertheless, it can be said that the Swedish democrats' line of defence policy has been right. You other parties have finally come over and taken on board our policy. This certainly does not apply to all matters, and not to the defence alliance, but to many other matters. That's why I'm inviting you to the next transition: let go of this one army brigade alone to create a threshold! No one believes in this. The only reason we have an army brigade is because we spend so little money. There is no tactic behind the idea that a brigade creates a threshold effect.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1066	Madam President, I would like When discussing defence policy, it is always wise to start with security policy. The security policy situation in our neighbourhood and around us is worse than it has been for a long time, as several previous speakers have noted. A central turning point in security policy was the Russian occupation of Crimea and the war in eastern Ukraine, which showed that Russia is now prepared to question the rule-based world order that Sweden is dependent on and wants to stand up for politically. Security policy uncertainty is further increasing with uncertainty as to what direction the EU will now take in the light of Brexit and with the unclear signals of the US administration and its hint of wanting to become less and less involved in global issues. However, today we are also facing a security policy situation where the threat picture is broader and more complex than before. The line between peace and war is not as clear. Hybrid warfare, where conventional military methods are supplemented and replaced by other measures, has become more common. This applies in particular to things such as cyber warfare, economic warfare and disinformation campaigns, such as political support for opposition groups in other countries in order to create internal unrest. Although the risk of an invasion threat to Sweden today is low, we must be aware that there are also activities going on in Sweden from other countries regarding such things as disinformation campaigns and espionage. There are, of course, also military attack exercises against Sweden and violations of our territory. In addition, these antagonistic threats should be added to the risk of accidents and natural disasters in the form of forest fires, storms and more. All these threats need a modern total defence and a modern crisis preparedness to deal with. I am therefore pleased to represent a government that runs a modern defence and security policy, a policy that focuses on addressing the range of challenges facing Sweden and where the starting point is to protect human rights, independence and the lives and health of the population. Unfortunately, dealing with all parts of this House cannot be done, but I would like to highlight two areas that are close to my heart. Firstly, Madam President, I would like to highlight the government's efforts to strengthen information security. With the Green Party in government, higher demands have been placed on information security work, while a new strategy for society's information and cyber security has been developed. The Government has, among other things, introduced a system of mandatory cyber-incident reporting for state authorities to prevent, detect and manage cyber-incidents. Already in 2016, more than 200 cyber-incident reports had been submitted to MSB. In addition, the Government has commissioned a special investigator to identify the need to prevent classified data or other security sensitive activities from being exposed to risks associated with outsourcing, assignment and transfer of such activities and to propose measures, such as permit testing. The Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency, MSB, has a very important function in contributing to information security work, including by developing regulations on how other authorities should work with this. Through collaboration with the private sector, MSB has also established a new forum aimed at increasing information security in the IT provider sector. In addition, MSB has received a substantial contribution to work with information and cyber security work through the latest settlement in the defence group. We are implementing this now. Secondly, in a changing climate, it is crucial for Sweden to invest in prevention of natural disasters. Here, too, I note that MSB has an important job: to support actors in various ways in preparing for the natural disasters caused by climate change. In order to enable preventive measures in vulnerable areas, the government has invested money that is divided into a dozen municipalities for preventive measures against landslides and other natural disasters. These are, in particular, stability-enhancing measures and measures to prevent the risk of flooding. In the work on climate adaptation, MSB has also made new surveys of 17 areas threatened by flooding when water flows reach a certain level. The 17 flood craterings contain new altitude data and climate-friendly 100- and 200-year flows. This work is very important, as it provides a higher degree of detail and a longer planning horizon for municipalities in their community planning. In addition, stability surveys have been carried out in relation to race and scrambling in order to be able to take preventive measures in built-up areas. Risk management plans with targets and measures have also been reported to the EU for the 18 areas in Sweden that are deemed to have significant flood risk, which has strengthened preparedness to deal with possible events. The results of measures taken and support to adapt society to a changing climate include reducing the risk of flooding and better management of the consequences of, for example, rainfall in various vulnerable areas. In addition to investing in MSB's efforts to reduce vulnerability in our society, the government also makes other targeted investments in parts of Sweden that are particularly vulnerable to climate change. Among other things, a special effort is being made on the climate adaptation proposal for government co-financing of measures in the event of splicing along the Göta River. A delegation is formed for Göta River at the State Geotechnical Institute. The allocation for climate change adaptation is increasing. There will be a total of SEK 97 million for 2018 and 182 million for the years 2019 and 2020. Madam President, I would like I began by emphasising the wide range of challenges that total defence and crisis preparedness need to address today. These are threats that can be both antagonistic and non-antagonistic. In Sweden we have had a tradition of dealing with these issues in a responsible way, beyond the block politics that characterizes many other areas. The policy we are pursuing today is the result of a broad agreement between most parties in this House. It sends a strong and important security policy signal to the outside world. Before Christmas comes the First Interim Report of the Defense Committee for the next defense decision period. I hope and believe that there too we will find broad majority in favour of a policy that builds an effective defence and can deal with the wide range of challenges facing us by the outside world.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1080	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by commending Anders Schröder. I think it was a consistent and full speech. I may not agree with all the elements, and I might have highlighted other nuances, but from an environmental partisan perspective – if I can put on that reviewer – I think the speech was very good. Basically, I must also say that I appreciate Anders Schröder as the defence policy he is. That is why it is also sad and sad, Madam President, that my arrows, which would actually target the Minister and the Government, are now being sent against Anders Schröder – there is no one else here. Unfortunately, it was the same thing yesterday when we discussed Pesco. Mr Schröder mentioned the issue of sending signals through broad agreements. I hope that the alliance government that takes office after the 2018 elections will have the ambition and the will to reach broad deals, and I wish the Green Party can also be there then. However, it would be interesting to hear Anders Schröder argue about this by sending out signals when no minister has chosen to come either today or yesterday to our debates on such a fundamental issue as the country's defence policy. I would like to make one more point. This applies to the article in Svenska Dagbladet today where the commander-in-chief warns of the risk of capability app, above all beyond 2020. This does not really come as news to us who have met the Commander-in-Chief in other contexts. He's already warned about this gamut. Therefore, there is reason to consider whether we need to provide additional funding even before a new defence decision on 1 January 2021. Every time we Moderates have proposed this, it has been initially dismissed; it has been seen as a grant bingo. After all, it has happened to end up both in the spring amending budget and in this budget. Does the Green Party still want to open up the possibility of strengthening efforts already in the budgets for 2019 and 2020 if this kind of serious evidence is available from the Swedish Armed Forces? As a moderate, I can also give some figures; they are in our draft budget.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1083	Madam President, I would like As Hans Wallmark points out, the information ÖB gives in Svenska Dagbladet is not news but something ÖB has been talking about for several years, as I understand it, not least the post-2020 talent phase. It is also something that Hans Wallmark and I have worked within the defence group to meet in different ways. That was also the reason why we met the last deal, I would remind you. I would also like to recall that we were rather agreed that we had catered for the things requested by the ÖB. I would like to remind Mr Wallmark that the discussion is also about a post 2020. Now we have appropriately enough a defence committee that sits and will make proposals on what will happen after 2020. It will certainly include a series of proposals in which it will come to conclusions on various priorities that will be able to meet what the ÖB is asking for. I think it's wise to take this into its own order and discuss it in the Defense Committee, and then we'll see where we land.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1086	Madam President, I would like The most important thing is that it is reality that must govern, not that one way or the other has been decided beforehand. I believe that if there is evidence and calculations indicating that we would probably have to make further efforts, that is necessary. That is why we have proposed it a number of times. Initially, we received criticism from the Social Democrats and the Green Party that it was funding bingo, but then they landed in various forms of further push. I think we should have transparency if there is any further evidence. We see that we already have the Swedish Armed Forces' perspective plan in February, and we have the so-called materialberg investigation. I think we should have the courage to be able to open up before a new major defence decision to provide additional means to try to prevent this kind of glitch. One of the things we have discussed is the medium-range anti-aircraft. There we have been clear when we have negotiated and said that it must not crowd out other projects. We would like to see it come as early as possible, and then we must allocate new resources to it. Therefore, in our draft budget, we set 6 billion more in relation to the 2018 figures for 2019 and 9 billion for 2020, precisely to have this opportunity and so that one project does not crowd out the other and that one good ambition does not crowd out the other. I would therefore like to return to my question: Is this readiness on the part of the Green Party, which is one of the two government-supporting parties? I understand that Anders Schröder is unfortunately unable to print out a carte blanche for the Minister of Defence, who does not like to be here. But is there the mental readiness to make further adjustments, as has actually been done in at least two military arrangements in the near future that Anders Schröder himself has experienced?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1091	Madam President, I would like Of course, the environmental party and also the Social Democrats, as the two government-worthy parties we are, understand the importance of listening to authorities. We have done this before, and we always do. Of course, we will take into account the situations facing us in reality. But being governmental also means doing things in the right order. Starting to draw conclusions from an SVD interview is not in the right order. We know – the Swedish Armed Forces said it themselves in the interview – that the Swedish Armed Forces will report back properly in February on what the situation really looks like. It would be very strange to draw any conclusions before then. I would like to say this: we will have to come back when we actually know what the ÖB is talking about. Well, then we can have the discussion.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1094	Madam President, I would like This is a very urgent and important debate. I note that in their first speech, the Swedish Democrats look backwards rather than present the picture ahead. It can often be the case in these issues that you start from what it has looked like more than you think about what is required in the changed world situation, with a deteriorating security situation that very much affects Sweden and where much has happened and continues to happen in our immediate area. Russia's aggressive power language and willingness to use military means and violence against its neighbours mean that our security has deteriorated. Increased military activity around Sweden's immediate environment and the Baltic Sea requires strengthening of Swedish defence, new measures and enhanced cooperation with others. Sweden's closest defence and security cooperation is in the Nordic countries, within the EU and with NATO. For the Center Party, it is important that Sweden becomes a full member of NATO as soon as possible. We have a lot to work with with NATO but also with other countries that want to contribute to stability and security in our area. Our defence must be based on a whole-country perspective and be able to handle the different conditions that exist around the country, not least the weather and its different conditions. We have complete defence planning, which needs to be intensified and permeated by more public but also private activities around the country. And the authorities need to talk to each other. The authorities need to plan together to a much deeper and wider extent in order to achieve results more quickly but also a deeper understanding of how the deteriorating security policy situation affects us in the near future. The Center Party wants to take responsibility. We are constructive in the dialogue, and we are also prepared to negotiate in order to find broad agreements. Therefore, we have now been in three agreements together with several parties and also the government to get the 2015 defence decision of 10,2 billion extra, in addition to the previously announced 2016 – 2020. If you remember, in the budget debate we had before Christmas a year ago, we did not hear requests from the government for additional money for defence, but referred to the fact that the decision in question would continue to apply in the future. However, as more parties joined the line that this was not enough and that the deteriorating security policy situation required more resources and that there was a need for a new defence preparation as soon as possible, the government also came to realise that we wanted to come to the negotiating table. In March, we landed in an additional half a billion this year, and in August, the talks resulted in a significant reinforcement for 2018, 2019 and 2020 with an extra 2.7 billion per year, where 400 million a year will go to the civilian part and the rest to the defence. I would say that without the participation of the Center Party together with others at the table, we would not have had any reinforcements to take a position on now for next year's budget, but we would have remained on the 2015 orientation decision. Thus, through these agreements, the Center Party has contributed. During the negotiations, we have added an extra SEK 18.8 billion for the years 2016-2020. The only responsible way to improve Swedish defence capabilities is to participate constructively and also to sit at the table. Sweden faces major challenges. It is a question of human resources, a need for extensive equipment and an increase in capacity vis-à-vis Russia. That is why we propose extra money for 2019 and 2020 that we want to go to medium-range air defence, more contractual soldiers, increased material maintenance, more vehicles and improved management and liaison capabilities among other army members. When we look forward to the next defence decision and the remaining work for the Defence Committee, we have a decision that the Center Party's goal for the next defence decision is that we should end up at least on the average of the Nordic countries' defence expenditure. This is moving matter. Every year this changes as the security policy situation makes our neighbours take offensive decisions to increase defence spending. At present, it ends up at 1.4% of the bnp. This would mean an increase of 16 billion a year. If you sum up over the five-year period, we are prepared to support a target in the Defence Committee of an additional 80 billion to the defence for 2021-2025. This far in the debate, the conditions are good for taking a considerable step forward now with a clear objective for Swedish defence policy in the next defence decision. I also hope that the next two years of budget negotiations in committees and Parliament will be able to complement the work on the way there. In the long term, the Center Party is also behind NATO's objectives that 2% of GDP is needed for defence. We see that all units of war must increase their capacity for war. It's different here. But the ability to simultaneously mobilise the entire war organization in the event of increased preparedness is of fundamental importance and should be strengthened. For the Center Party, it is important that we can make wide-ranging efforts, so that it is not the case that exercise activities must be reduced in favour of materials. We need both. Our defence capabilities will be developed so that the whole country can have increased accessibility and improved operational capabilities. In the forthcoming defence preparation work we see how much vulnerability is and how big challenges we face with logistics flows, with practical transport from north to south or vice versa and to have roads and electricity in operation and also to be able to withstand the antagonistic threats that occur in our immediate environment but also here in Sweden. Officers' supply is an Achilles' heel in the Armed Forces' personnel supply. This is perhaps one of the biggest challenges in the near future, when we need an improved staff supply and can also guarantee that future retirements do not mean a glitch but that we can replenish with more and new employees. Today we have received a lot of information linked to different stories in connection with the metoo campaign. When it comes to the Swedish Armed Forces, we have read the stories in committee context and how important it is that the Swedish Armed Forces and other organisations work clearly and continue in the long term and in the near future to develop valuation work, leadership and responsibility and also lay the foundation with clear and good values. Preventing, preventing and dealing with discrimination must be the most important thing in view of all the reports that have come. Madam President, I would like The Swedish military presence and regimental formation now taking place on Gotland is important. The fact that the procurement of Patriot, which has begun, can be carried out will strengthen our ability. That the upcoming report from the Defence Committee is widely received and can lead to a good dialogue in society, I see as extremely important. Many people need to be involved in the conversation about what is needed in the near future to develop our defence capabilities but also our civil defence, because the vulnerability is so great. We debated food issues earlier today, and we were able to see how another committee discussed these issues. But I did not take the security policy perspective. It is an example of how these different fields must be met. Food security, a secure flow of logistics and security policy go hand in hand. The fact that in the event of higher preparedness and at worst war we can have a livelihood and a basic structure that works is extremely important. There, private and public actors at local, regional and national level are extremely important. Everyone needs to be involved and work together to achieve clear results. The Center Party wants to see a developed unit structure, we want to see more brigades and we call for investigations before the next defense decision that shows which regiments are necessary to do in the strategic locations of the total defense. I request the approval of reservation 10. I also want to strike a blow for the role and task of defence music and how it can develop in a broad spirit of consensus in our society. Last year, an announcement was made by the Committee on Defence and a clear contribution to the Government's continued work from the Riksdag. It has not been received with the commitment we hoped for. Therefore, it is once again a clear greeting to the Swedish government about the role and task of defence music. We hope that the government will come back with a concrete reconnection for the coming years and that this important ambition will also be met.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1121	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Committee on Defence's report Area of expenditure 6 Defence and society's emergency preparedness. In fact, I would like to start by agreeing with Mr Wallmark that it is a bad thing that the Minister for Defence is not taking part in this debate. It is not often that I agree with Hans Wallmark, but in this case I actually do. The security situation in Europe has changed and deteriorated. We see growing contradictions, military armaments and increased confrontation on our continent and in our neighbourhood. Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and destabilisation policies in Ukraine and NATO's armament and enlargement have led to Europe's becoming into a dangerous armament spiral. Climate change, cyber attacks, pandemics and natural disasters must also be included in the security policy perspective. Many of the major challenges we face are not solved by military means. Other measures are needed here, based on cooperation and dialogue rather than confrontation. In an increasingly uncertain environment, initiatives need to be taken to reduce tension and stem the armament spiral. Therefore, military alliance freedom is central to the Left Party. Swedish alliance freedom has served us well and has meant that generation after generation has grown up in our country without having to experience the horrors of war. It is through an independent foreign policy, with a broad commitment to democracy, human rights, international law, women's liberation and global social justice, that we build international credibility. It is a credibility that Sweden can use to become a strong voice for peace, mediation and disarmament in the world, if the political will exists. As part of this, Sweden should sign the UN Nuclear Ban Treaty. A Swedish NATO membership would be a major security policy mistake. Madam President, I would like A credible Swedish military alliance freedom also means a need for a modern Swedish defence with strong popular support that has the capacity to maintain control over Swedish territory, meet the various security threats and crises that we face and be able to contribute to international efforts to safeguard peace and security. Therefore, the reintroduction of military service is of central importance. We welcome the government's decision to reinstate voluntary military training and to give both men and women the opportunity to sign up. This is an important step for a more popular anchoring of the Swedish defence. The fact that defence is made up of people from different backgrounds and experiences is ultimately a question of democracy. Although Sweden was the first in the world to allow women to work in all military positions, many notions of male and female still exist. The Armed Forces are made up of men and are largely governed by men and male norms and values. Today, the Armed Forces' personnel consist of approximately 87 percent of men. Sweden has a different gender distribution in the defence than many other Western countries. The Left Party wants to see a defence force where women and men are equal and where women are represented to the same extent as men, regardless of their position. Women employed in the field of defence have today come out in a petition in which they testify to a great deal of sexual abuse and harassment, which is, of course, totally unacceptable. Discriminating, degrading and harassing behaviours do not belong in the Armed Forces or anywhere else in our society. It is important that we listen to these women's appeals and take it very seriously. In its motion E n feminist security policy, the Left Party has taken up several proposals for measures, such as the government's ensuring, in contact with the relevant authorities, that there is information and the necessary procedures to enable reporting on sexual violence, sexual harassment or similar maladministration for employees of the Armed Forces, regardless of the workplace. We also want the Swedish Armed Forces to carry out an annual gender equality survey and to draw up a plan for achieving a gender balance within the organisation's different levels. Madam President, I would like When the defence is now facing the acquisition of new equipment, including a new anti-aircraft, it is important that there is a careful analysis of the systems available on the market regarding the military benefits as a whole and, of course, also from a cost perspective. It is therefore good and important that this decision should be anchored in the Riksdag. The Left Party has already welcomed the fact that the focus on Swedish defence has changed from the form of intervention defence to a territorial defence. It is good and reasonable that Sweden is once again planning for a total defence, that the unit activities are met and that support for the voluntary defence organisations is strengthened. The voluntary defence organisations have broad knowledge and commitment and ability to contribute to strengthening the broad security work. These organisations contribute to increasing the capacity of individuals and society to deal with serious events, accidents and crises. We share the committee's assessment of the progress made in this area, but at the same time we see that more needs to be done. It is also important to broaden voluntary defence organisations. They need to be more men and women from all over Swedish society in the future. It is urgent to strengthen their ability to operate, and we see the need to place even greater emphasis on the work of NGOs. Madam President, I would like Finally, I am pleased that the committee is giving the government back homework on defence music. Defence music is an important part of Swedish music and cultural heritage. The defense music consists of 113 musicians who have over 400 performances each year. It is both requested and well respected in Sweden as well as abroad. It is important that the public continue to have the opportunity to listen to defence music all over the country and that all the bands continue to operate. In doing so, I am in favour of Amendment No 3 tabled by Mr S, V and MP and the other amendments tabled by the committee.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1134	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. We are debating the Committee on Defence's report on Category 6 Defence and society's emergency preparedness. This is what we are doing in an increasingly tough security policy situation, as many of the speakers have said. It is a fact, and I believe that a large part of the Swedish people feel it. We have the war going on right now in Eastern Ukraine, and we have the unlawful annexation of Crimea in 2014. This has created fear in the Baltic States, and we also see increased activity in the Baltic Sea. I think many Swedes feel that we do not have a defence that is good enough, and neither do we. We have a defence that needs strengthening. Several speakers have also visited today's Svenska Dagbladet, where ÖB talks about the economy. We can't go on like this, is the headline. ÖB Micael Bydén says that price increases and other effects have made it even more difficult to cope with the economy. The gap continues to increase and we have great challenges to achieve our goals. He also talks about the risk of having to reduce the exercises and goes on to say, "There is a lack of both equipment and personnel in many parts of the Swedish Armed Forces and we cannot continue this way year after year. Then we lose loyalty and trust. ..................................................... So this is the situation we are in right now. It is important to realize that hot air cannot be corrected — with fine words. It will take money, much more money than we spend today at the Swedish Armed Forces. Therefore, the Christian Democrats want us to go to the levels NATO long ago decided to invest, namely 2%. Today we are at 1%, and that is not enough if we are to have a defence force that can defend us and provide security to the Swedish people in a satisfactory way. Sometimes we say that you can get war hurt, and that's terrible. But you can also be harmed by peace and never believe that this applies to us. Krister Bringéus, the Security Policy Investigator, has said that Sweden will be withdrawn if any country in the Baltic countries is attacked. It is also the case that on Russian territory, from Kaliningrad, there are Iskanderbots that reach across Swedish territory. Mr Bringéus talked about the fact that in a crisis situation where Russia could move these forward and, for example, borrow a piece of Gotland could not defend the Baltic countries, which are members of NATO. We therefore have an important responsibility to build up our defence, but that will not be enough. We will not be able to manage on our own, but we must also become members of NATO. It was the NATO plan that came up that night during the so-called Russian Easter a number of years ago. If we were members of NATO, we could really co-plan – have a common defence planning – and in a completely different way both strengthen the security of the Swedish people and help our neighbours. What do we need to do? We could talk about this for a long time, but take, for example, the Air Force. We have a good air force, but it's much smaller than it's been before. What we need to ensure now is that it does not diminish. We have only ordered 60 new JAS E-planes, and we would need to use the C/ D-planes we have just received and thus maintain the level of 100 planes. We would also need to use more of our air bases and have base personnel there so that we can spread out our aircraft. That would make us much less vulnerable. We have a fine marine, but it is not very big, Madam President. We can only defend the West Coast. We all know in this House that someone who wants to hurt us will, of course, do something to stop the supplies coming through Gothenburg. That is why we must once again build up a capacity with combat vessels on the west coast. Then there's the army. The army is the most outspoken thing on the foot; we have seen a 90% reduction since the 80's. Here are two brigades – on paper. One brigade is there, in good condition, but the other is in very bad condition. We need to bet on it, but it's not enough. The Christian Democrats will move forward in the negotiations to at least have four brigades – one in Skåne and one in Skövde, based on the west coast, as well as one in Stockholm and one in Boden. However, we should also have brigade skills on Gotland. Now we are building up an ability there, and that is a good thing, but we would need to reinforce further in order to be dangerous to an attacker, to anyone who wants to harm us. The army needs to double from today's 15 000 men to 30 000 men. I would like to mention something about reservation 2, to which I have just referred and to which we are calling for approval. It is a matter of the government publicly reporting staffing, material filling, completed training, costs and assessed capabilities for each war unit. The Swedish National Audit Office could do that. They have access to the information. Of course, there must be defence secrets, but it gets pretty pathetic when it's supposed to be so hard to get information. One example, Madam President: last week the German Bundestag discussed how it could be concluded that all six u boats are on the move. No one was out in business. There was a similar discussion about tanks. Only 95 out of 255 possible were available. So there was a public debate on this in the Bundestag. So we have a lot to do in terms of increasing transparency. I think there is a great understanding among the Swedish people that we need to increase our ability, but then it is also important that we talk about where we stand and where we need to come to have a defence that can defend the Swedish people. The question of the Marines' Musik Corps has been mentioned, so I do not need to repeat it. But there we are giving an important back lesson to the government that has not fulfilled what Parliament has said. In conclusion, it is very important in the future that we strengthen our defence capabilities. We also want to become members of NATO. The Christian Democrats are a party that wants to stand up for security. We stand up for the security of the family and freedom of choice. We stand up for security in streets and squares but also against external threats.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1150	Madam President, I would like I share Mikael Oscarsson's description of the situation in the Baltic Sea region. I am also quite concerned about the situation and Russian developments in the handling of Crimea and the management of Georgia. I am also concerned about the developments that we are seeing in the Middle East, and with an American President who is finding it difficult to deal with the situation, I am even more concerned. Then Mikael Oscarsson sees a light in the dark, and it is NATO. I myself belong to a party that does not believe that this is the solution, but we believe that the solution is that we equip the Swedish defence and that it is important for us to guarantee security in the area and for our neighbours with whom we also cooperate. I remember myself in the early 90s when I left high school and did my military service. That was when the great disarmament began in Sweden, and I saw how the comrades on the other side of the barracks got to go home earlier. In view of the proximity to the capital and to Gotland, I was even more surprised when the F13 flotilla was shut down. I felt, where are we going? That worry was there. Now, however, we are in a situation where we have started a change. We've talked about Tage Erlander before and he did a lot for Swedish defense. The Christian Democrats do not have such a long history in the Swedish parliament, and under the governments that you have participated in, we have had disarmament, in which the Social Democrats have also participated. Now we have turned this around. This government has started to invest in defence again and has had a more positive development. The government has done so together with the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats to increase their ability. But now the Christian Democrats have left the cooperation. Could Mikael Oscarsson elaborate on why you have done it? After all, it has been an improvement in Swedish ability, and we are working more with it. NATO we can talk about at some other time. Today we are going to talk about Swedish defence capabilities, and it needs to be developed.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1155	Madam President, I would like It is nice to talk to Mattias Ottosson in this way. It is quite interesting that he spends all his speaking time explaining how insane the idea of NATO is, and yet he comes up with another question. If we take NATO first, there is a double standard in this country. The Social Democrats know that we cannot manage ourselves, and NATO will somehow come and help us. But we are not a member of NATO, and we do not have Article 5. Therefore, Bringéus says in his investigation that it is difficult to understand the Swedish line. We are seen as a member of NATO; we are a close partner. But we don't have protection. It is also the case that once upon a time, and that should be known to Mattias Ottosson, the freedom of alliance was aimed at neutrality in war. It's been a long time. It's been a long time since Tage Erlander's time. But it has also been a long time since we removed that we should be neutral. When we joined the EU, Mattias Ottosson, we removed that. What is the purpose of non-alignment? That's what it is. If you're going to make it on your own, 2% is not enough. Then we'll have to go up even higher. If I'm going to answer the question, that's why we dropped out-- we thought it was too low a bid. That is why we then put 50% more in our budget than the deal. So that's why. We thought it was too little money in terms of the needs that exist. My question is: What is the aim of alliancelessness, Mattias Ottosson?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1161	Madam President, I would like To create security in the immediate area in which we live – it's about free trade, it's about diplomatic relations, it's about creating a relationship in our neighbourhood – a Swedish defence force is needed, and for the first time in many, many years there's starting to be a change. We see that the trend has reversed. The Swedish defence is given more resources. There I agree with Mikael Oscarsson : I think that the Swedish defence should have even more resources. We are now in a position where the Swedish defence gets more personal material. We will ensure that the Swedish Armed Forces are present on Gotland. It's more practice. We have conducted the largest military exercise in more than 20 years. We're re-enrolling military service so we can get a width. The system that we had before has proved to be ineffective. We have launched a number of major equipment projects – it is Archer, short-range anti-aircraft, darkness, bridge-band carriages, combat vehicles 90, which have been upgraded – I think there are more than 200 – battle weak 122 and signal reconnaissance vessels are ordered as well as the A26 submarine. There is a great deal going on, and this was part of the Christian Democrats. But you've left it. Isn't it better for a small country to work together? Does Mikael Oscarsson not think that it would be perceived as positive in the immediate area? My question remains: why did you leave this cooperation? Does Mikael Oscarsson not think that Sweden will be stronger the more we cooperate in this group? What makes you different from the Moderates, the Center Party and the other Alliance colleagues?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1166	Madam President, I would like Mattias Ottosson doesn't really know which leg to stand on. On the one hand, he says he agrees with Oscarsson on the shortcomings, and on the other hand he says that we still have a strong defence. I don't really know what the message is. The truth is, we have a huge challenge. I tried to tell you from the speaker's office that we've reduced the army by 90%. We've reduced the Navy and the Air Force by 80%. The country's the same size. We are the second largest country in Europe, Mattias Ottosso n. We have huge challenges. France decided to become a full member of NATO again, because they said: we cannot defend ourselves on our own. It's the simple truth: we can't make it on our own. SD is talking about Finland. But that is not enough, and Mattias Ottosson knows that. It's not deterrent enough. Cooperation with Finland is amazing, but it is not enough. Then it is as good to say as it is and be open to the Swedish people. We must be transparent with our abilities and our shortcomings. We will tell you where we are going and what needs there are, because there are great needs in our armed forces. That is why it is important not only to have fine words but also to have a credible staircase of up to 2%. Germany is a bit over 1% but has decided that in the mid-2020s it should be up to 2%. That is also what NATO has stated. We also need to do this in order to be credible. It is important that we get proper funding and that we plug the major shortcomings we have in order to create security for the Swedish people and our surrounding world.
i-74pczCkPZACmyWXACcqG66	Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 3. Today we have a great task to build a defence that has been dismantled on many levels for several years. This requires both financial and human resources and long-term planning. The Government decided on 10 December 2015 that the Swedish Armed Forces, the Swedish Civil Protection Agency and the other relevant civil authorities will resume coherent planning for the total defence. This work is gradually being developed and creates an increasing awareness in society of the requirements of the protection of Sweden. The Swedish Parliament has decided that the goal of the military defence from 2016 onwards is to defend Sweden and promote our security by asserting Sweden's sovereignty, safeguarding sovereign rights and national interests, preventing and managing conflicts and wars, protecting Sweden's freedom of action in political, military or other pressure and, if necessary, defending Sweden against incidents and armed attacks, and protecting society and its functionality in the form of support to civil authorities. At the same time, the Riksdag decided that the goal of civil defence from 2016 onwards should be to protect the civilian population, ensure the most important social functions and contribute to the Swedish Armed Forces' ability in an armed attack or war in our surrounding world. The single most important thing during the defence orientation period 2016 – 2020 is to increase the operational capability of the military units and to ensure the overall capability of the total defence. Madam President, I would like Now that we have decided to resume total defence planning, a consensus is needed in the Riksdag, and it is very gratifying that we in the Riksdag have a broad majority where the defense group with the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Moderates and the Center continue to cherish this agreement. In my speech, I would particularly like to highlight civil defence and how important it is to enable and contribute to the Armed Forces being able to carry out their mission in the event of increased preparedness and extreme war, but also for the emergency preparedness needed in peacetime. Further starting point for emergency preparedness is that the whole society, with authorities, municipalities, county councils, regions, private business and voluntary organisations, jointly and within their respective areas, takes responsibility for and develops the emergency preparedness work. These tasks require good planning, inventory, collaboration and coordination. Above all, different scenarios need to be practiced. The Government's national security strategy presented in January 2017 sets out the framework and direction for the work required to safeguard Sweden's security both within and between different policy areas. According to MSB, the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency, the focus should be on the following areas: energy supply, food supply – an incredibly important issue that Daniel Bäckström addressed earlier – transport and transport infrastructure, healthcare and care, financial services, information and communication, and security and security. The government has also commissioned MSB to develop a national information material and strengthen support for municipalities in their efforts to increase citizens' knowledge of preparations for crises and increased preparedness. The assignment shall be presented by 1 March 2018. This is a very important initiative. The voluntary perspective needs to be taken into account in the continued work as NGOs are a good resource for anchoring and contribute to a strengthened capacity in society with their skills. The voluntary defence organisations contribute to increasing the capacity of individuals to deal with serious incidents, accidents and crises. By increasing the peace-time capacity to face and manage accidents and crises, other NGOs will also contribute to the ability to withstand pressures under increased preparedness. Dissemination of information on total defence is an important part of the functioning of voluntary defence organisations. The youth activities of voluntary organisations are also a force for future recruitments and are an important function of society. Defence will is a word that summarises the conversations I have had with the Home Guard and the voluntary defence organisations during visits to their trainings and exercises. Their non-profit involvement has a positive impact on people's trust in society and each other, and in this case is an important value for emergency preparedness. The local anchoring and recruitment of Home Guard units is of great importance for the peoples of the armed forces. Madam President, I would like I will conclude my speech by lifting the call, # attentiontochbitihop, which 1,730 women who are or have been active in the Swedish Armed Forces have signed. There they testify to abuse, abuse and bullying from male colleagues. Women share their experiences of rape, bullying and sexist comments. This is what they write in the petition: Silence cultures that say attention and bite together and power structures where ruling techniques are closed to make women who reported abuse many times questioned and in some cases even more vulnerable. In future, all notifications must be taken seriously. It is high time the Swedish Armed Forces really defended our interests. ÖB Micael Bydén says: This kind of behaviour is totally unacceptable. Anyone who cannot live by the Swedish Armed Forces' values has nothing to do with the Swedish Armed Forces. Madam President, I would like At today's meeting, the committee had invited women employees to the Swedish Armed Forces and also the Director of Human Resources and a HR strategist for information on the appeal. As many of you have said, it is very important for us in committee to be able to hear these stories. I would like to say a big thank you to those who came and told us. As has been said before, it is about attitudes and structures that do not belong in any workplace. It was also highlighted that it is not a women's issue. It's not us against them, but shoulder to shoulder, as one of the people said. Now there is no turning back, but now there is a need for change, be a common vision. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to thank everyone, no such and no forgotten, who is helping to strengthen our military and civil defence. I would also like to extend warm thanks to all those who contribute to our international efforts, because if our political decisions are to be implemented, much is required of everyone.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1196	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for reservation 5 to be approved under paragraph 6. The Swedish defence has undergone its steel bath, a steel bath that has lasted for almost 20 years. It was a steel bath that not only reduced costs and activities. It was a steel bath, which has also meant modernising the defence and disposing of buildings and equipment and having to think completely new. We long believed in a world that would invest more in disarmament instead of armament. The deteriorating security situation in our neighbourhood is the basis for the need for change in policy and for the Swedish defence to be strengthened. We live in troubled times where the power relations in our world are unstable. This is a start, but the goal needs to be for the defence to have a resource allocation equivalent to 2% of gross domestic product, which is a target for us moderates. With this aim, the Swedish total defence would be significantly strengthened. Madam President, I would like The previous reductions mean that the resources that are now being provided are being used well and efficiently. Resources will be used forward-looking and well thought-out. It is also important that the Swedish product is equipped and staffed for cooperation with other countries and that our ability to give and receive support is strengthened. It is a good start for a work that can then lead to a Swedish NATO membership. The reinforcements made will provide both modern and robust total defence. One such reinforcement has been the establishment of Gotland Regiment in Visby. This is an important strategic effort. Increased presence in the Baltic Sea is crucial for our increased defence capabilities. It is an initiative that also has strong local support for the population on Gotland, which should not be underestimated. I discovered that on a study visit this summer. Strengthening procurement competence in defence is an important and priority area. One cannot stress enough the importance of good procurement. This is something we saw not least in connection with the security scandal at the Swedish Transport Agency this summer. With better and more informed procurement, this would not have had to happen. Contracts of the size of the defence must be conducted in the most professional way. Otherwise, we risk that the efforts we are making will not be of use to us as we wish and that the reinforcement we want will not be possible. In times like this when much new material is purchased, the logistics of materiel is particularly important. It is therefore surprising and less responsible that the government does not heed the Moderates' motion to strengthen procurement competence at the defence authorities. An alarm chain is never stronger than its weakest link. Therefore, the review of SOS Alarm that is now under way is useful. There is development work to be done in this area. Alarm chains are not only about short alarm times, they also need follow-up and development. The threats to society and people's lives and health are not so simple today either. It is really only imagination that can put an end to what accidents can happen, and for that we need to be prepared. That is why helicopter capacity and the military helicopters can also be used for civil defence is something we want to review from the alliance parties. The goals the defense gets for its operations need to be better followed up. Strengthening follow-up is important. Assessment bases and performance parameters in general in the defence need to be improved.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1206	Madam President, I would like The hour's late. It seems that Mr Oscarsson is getting more alert every hour that goes by. Madam President, I would like I choose to talk about a few other things in my speech. There are some who worry me and some where I think we are on the wrong path. What worries me is the officers' training. I've brought it up before. As you know, staff training at the National Defence College is now being discontinued. It's senior year. One could imagine that the Swedish Armed Forces will take over it, as they once did. Are there any plans for this? Yeah, I'm sure there is. In any case, there are no plans that I know or have managed to come up with. But there may be such work going on. Should you extend the other officers' classes? No, not according to what I can see. Don't you need this training? Yes, you do. I'm worried about that. A great need is the recruitment of officers. It is important that we have quality in the profession. The statements I have heard are confirmation. I don't want to mention the name, but one of the teachers on the officer program said: We shouldn't have over-trained officers. In my view, this attitude has not been understood in any way by the actual nature of the officer's profession. In order to understand the complexity of war unit heads at all, one and two steps need to be trained over and understood one and two steps downwards. That's what you do if you take a long education. I asked ÖB when he was with us in committee. I am not supposed to have a discussion and debate with him about it there. However, the profession of officer has many tried and tested experiences to lean on. Professionion is best served by subjects such as tactics, leadership and technology being included in all courses you attend. It's about platoon command training, company command training and battalion command training. These substances are in symbiosis with each other in different strength and extent. This must mark the whole of the training that is being carried out. I believe that there are signs that people are now moving away from it and are beginning to believe that those who are trained will be able to take exams of different subjects. War science is tactics and operations. It has to go hand in hand all the way. I am deeply concerned about that. I'm no longer alone. F mud of ficers with whom I have spoken are deeply concerned about this. The nature of the profession is that it is the state's ultimate means of conducting policies by force, one might perhaps be able to express oneself, or achieve political goals through violence. The Swedish Armed Forces, among other things, are used. It will train to be able to die or kill or send other soldiers to war. That's what it's all about. It's the nature of the profession. That said, I'm going to link a little bit to military training. We agreed, and I have heard what the Liberals and the rest of you have said here. It feels better and better when we at least agree that we should have a strong Swedish defence. Where the debate is sometimes heated is when it comes to NATO membership or not. I am not going to comment on that, because I have done so many times before, if you do not want to ask me a question later. We want to increase military training to perhaps 10 000 – 15 000. It has a connection to the number of units. We want more brigades, as you know. We also need a return to the civilian part. We believe that civil protection schools should get started and train as they did before through duty and strengthen fire protection. In the event of disasters in society, one should be able to use a duty and also a war position in industries and so on, but above all for the war units. We're gonna have to reassemble it. It requires quite a large amount of soldiers or conscripts. Eventually, officers are secured through larger military service hills. We get a breadth in society. We think that is very important. Then I'm going to practice. We have made a proposal, and Parliament's investigation service is looking at this. How can one best hijack one of the environmental tests? There are now three steps, and it may take a year and a half to extend the shooting permits by one or two days. This isn't to the fill. It is almost the case that the next court will examine the first instance even if it has given its approval. Here we come back with a concrete proposal. We're waiting for Parliament's investigation service. I have also spoken to the headquarters' environmental departments. They share this view, and I have the feeling that you do too. This isn't weird, is it? The last thing I want to talk about is the anti-aircraft. I think we are on the wrong track. I think we should redo the offer request and not just target the older system, the Patriot system. It's gonna be a cuckoo. Those of you who think you're supposed to protect the airports that were listed... choose one! You'll get nothing on our battleships, nothing on the corvettes. Why don't you do a procurement where you invest in Aster 30, for example, with Swedish radar? It can enable a business deal that benefits the Swedish defence industry and is also a European cooperation, which many of you think is good and want to increase and strengthen. Here's a great opportunity. In addition, you can man every corvette with, for example, the CAMM 2 robot, for a cost that would be significantly lower than what the Patriot system will cost. We get more battalions, lots of robots and high technology. Even Aster 30 can handle ballistic missiles, but the CAMM robots are specially designed for cruise missiles. We get protection far out in the Baltic Sea, on Gotland and in many other places, at much lower prices than the price of this outdated system. Poland today says: No, this was extremely expensive. I think I wrote down what they said. This is to be renegotiated; it is not reasonable. Have you read it? These are serious signals. They are shocked by the great cost, if you are to believe in the media data. Poland considers this to be totally unacceptable. Why should you have this system? The NATO countries do not want it. France doesn't want it. Italy doesn't want it. The United States is starting to develop a new system. This radar looks 120 degrees. If you want to cover the same thing with the one our Swedish radar system covers, you have to have three in different directions. The cruise missiles aren't going straight to the target today. They go in a different direction, walk around and come in from the other direction. We need an all-round radar. It does not provide this system. I think we should have a bill on this so that we can make decisions in Parliament – not just letters. I think we're on the wrong track, quite simply. We'll reconsider. This is very important, and there will be a big hole in the defence budget. Should we then add 15 to 20 billion? That's not gonna happen. We have nothing on our ships. What if... if you've made up your mind.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1228	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to take note of Roger Richtoff's speech. There are many important issues he highlights and shows commitment to. We have had several previous debates on these issues and will certainly come back in the future. I have taken note of the motion submitted by the Swedish Democrats in connection with the overall budget for the defence field. The Swedish Democrats' description of their policy on how to recreate and develop ability from a Swedish perspective contains many different pieces that are interesting. In his speech, Roger Richtoff touches on military training. As in previous years, the Swedish Democrats describe in their proposal that it should be mandatory only for, as you write this year, guys. Young guys, it's in the description of the Swedish Democrats in the proposal. My first question is: What is the goal of the Swedish Democrats for gender equality work in the Swedish Armed Forces, and what reflections does Roger Richtoff make based on what has reached us linked to the Metoo call and the events that have been reported within the Swedish Armed Forces? It is a question of discrimination, harassment and so on. The second issue is that I cannot read to any security policy analysis of why the Swedish Democrats want to increase resources for defence. It would be interesting to hear Roger Richtoff develop this here tonight and describe why we need to equip the Baltic Sea.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1233	Madam President, I would like I hope I got all the questions down. As far as metoo is concerned, we can do it pretty quickly. We fully share the opinion of the ÖB and the view expressed here, most recently by the honourable Member here in front of me. We have no other opinion. For our part, it is absolutely clear that it should be equal and equal. In terms of security policy analysis and why we need to upgrade, we wonder what a brigade, which we have today, can do. Let's say someone would come up with the idiotic idea of dropping a battalion on it. Then when it's shot off, you drop another one. We cannot defend our country with a brigade, or in the long term two. That is absolutely impossible. We need to get our levels up when it comes to brigades. This analysis is built into our view of the response of Sweden. If we are to remain outside NATO, which we believe for security reasons, we believe that our position contributes most to a relaxation in our area, unlike, for example, the position of the Centre Party and the Alliance, which want to join NATO. We believe that it increases tensions. Therefore, we demand a strong Swedish defence, with a real anti-aircraft instead of what is coming in now. We need reinforcements on our corvettes, with submarine weapons and so on. It gives us a high threshold effect. Our military freedom of alliance we are prepared to sell away by joining in alliance with Finland. But Mikael Jansson has previously explained that. Next question, I guess I'll have to take it in the next answer.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1238	Madam President, I would like If the Swedish Democrats want to succeed in having an equal and equal defence and only intend to commit younger guys, I ask Roger Richtoff to explain how to achieve it in practice. In what way will the Swedish Democrats want to recruit female gender workers to the Swedish Armed Forces? And what level of ambition do the Swedish Democrats have for the next defence decision? Young guys are for me perhaps somewhat younger people than those who are actually recruited to the Armed Forces. This could be further developed by the Swedish Democrat. I have noticed that the Swedish Democrats describe Russia in at least two places in the motion. Does Roger Richtoff share the assessment that the rest of us are making linked to Russia's increasingly aggressive image and activities in its neighbourhood, when it comes to the conflict and the war that is going on in Ukraine, the annexation that has taken place in Crimea and the ongoing armaments that are very clear? How does this affect the threat picture from a Swedish democratic perspective? The fact that the Center Party so clearly wants Sweden to join NATO is based on the need to build security together with others. We need to work with more people. We need to work with Finland. We share the view that we should work closely with Finland, and we need to work with all Nordic countries, with the Baltics and within the EU, as well as with the transatlantic countries and the other members of NATO. My next question will be: What concrete goal should Sweden and Finland have together in the field of defence in order to be able to manage to maintain stability in the Baltic Sea region?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1242	Madam President, I would like As far as young men are concerned, we mean those who sign and step in today. They're young men. We also believe, as we have written, that it should be voluntary for women. We have also discussed a lot in our party whether it should be a duty of all or a voluntary nature. Now we've landed in this. In terms of gender equality, we get a lot of women who volunteer for the officer's profession and military service. It is absolutely clear: it is a level playing field for everyone. As far as the metoo events are concerned, I have responded earlier, but we are fighting hard, and you have heard what the ÖB thinks about this. He says that the Armed Forces do not have to do if they do not agree with these guidelines. We have no other opinion. As far as the analysis of the armaments is concerned, unlike the Centre Party which, a few years ago, broke down the systems and participated in this, we do not believe that we can have a system, a military obligation or a military defence, which depends on the day-form of Russia, but we must maintain a strong defence over time. We were the only ones. I still have thoughts about what happens if there is a calm in Russia. Will the Center then sit down in this group and start demolishing the systems again, or will you do the analysis that we need to maintain a strong defense over time? It would be interesting to get an answer, but it must be a rhetorical question because the line shift is almost over. Otherwise, we think that the objective of a union with Finland requires very careful planning. That planning – how to use the dressings, what means of connection are required and who will do what and in what areas – will surely take both one, two and three years to implement. It will be a long, prolonged process, but we go beyond peace-time conditions.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1249	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a member of the EU. There is a Treaty, the Treaty of Lisbon, which says that when you are a member of the European Union, you must support your neighbours in every way in the event of an attack or disaster. We have talked about this once before, Roger Richtoff, but I would like to ask: are you still, together with the Left Party in the Swedish Parliament, committed to change this? When we joined the European Union, we set out a declaration of solidarity which means that Sweden will never be neutral again. We will stand up, for example, for the Baltic countries. We also hope for the same thing from the outside world if we are to suffer a disaster. Then we expect to get help. In the attack on Paris, Article 42 was invoked. 7 and got help from Sweden. But what about the Swedish Democrats and their solidarity with the Baltic States? That was my first question, Madam President. My second question concerns the fact that Richtoff used to have some kind of wording about Finland and cooperation in one line. It's great working together. We are absolutely in favour of that. But does Roger Richtoff really believe that such a thing would be a deterrent to Russia if, for example, they were to attack us? Does Roger Richtoff think that cooperation between Finland and Sweden would be enough?
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1253	Madam President, I would like The answer to the second question, if it were to be dissuasive, is: It would be very dissuasive to have a strong Swedish defence of an order of magnitude that we are alone in wanting. Together with Finland it would be very dissuasive. We believe that this would be a rather high threshold. On the first question, on the declaration of solidarity, we have had it up before. Finland also has a declaration of solidarity and a wording dealing with all available means, except military ones. I think we should have the same wording as Finland. Why do I think that? Member Mikael Oscarsson may be able to tell us if you have considered giving some instructions to the Swedish Armed Forces. What will the attack on the Baltic Sea look like with unsent sausages? Are you going to do a snip movement somewhere else? How are you going to get military help there? These are important questions that we must ask the Swedish Armed Forces so that you can plan carefully and report the plans. Otherwise, it's just air. There's no one in here who thinks we're going to be able to send the military to the Baltic countries today, is there? With what? If we send a soldier, a platoon or a company it blows in the same second in Sweden, because then we have declared Russia war. But that requires the honourable Member to do a deeper analysis to understand it, I think.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1257	Madam President, I would like I find it rather difficult to understand the message here. Roger Richtoff says it would be very dissuasive. You've just stood here and told me that we have such poor defence skills. How do you get it together? There is a window, a window of opportunity, for Russia in the near future when one is superior. I don't really understand the reality that Roger Richtoff has. What leg are you gonna stand on? Do we have a strong ability or do we not? And how do you make it go together that we could be a deterrent to Russia? I don't think it's going home anywhere, Roger. I don't think anyone believes that. I don't think you even believe it yourself. We actually have a story about this, Roger Richtoff. I would like to inform you that on 19 January 1946 we released 146 baltes. They're so close to us, Roger Richtoff, but that time we chose to look away, and so it's been right up to the present. It must never happen again. We were there with the Defence Committee this spring, and then I came to talk to one of our highest representatives in the Baltic countries. I mentioned the line shift that we had and got the answer: don't say this! There would be riots here in the Baltic if it came out that the Swedish side is so selfish and would not stand up. Who will stand up, Roger Richtoff, for Sweden if we show this attitude? Does the honourable Member not know that solidarity is actually to be there when it is really needed? We have turned our backs on the Baltic States too many times. We're not gonna do it again. We are in the European Union together, and we must stick to the declaration of solidarity. One for all, all for one.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1263	Madam President, I would like One for all, all for one. I still believe that Mikael Oscarsson has looked too much at the Three Musketeers. The problem that the honourable Member does not see, or does not want to see, is that when you make a declaration of solidarity, it should be credible. I understand that the honourable Member will never ever answer the question: what are the directives going to look like for us to be able to transfer units to the Baltic States, the NATO countries, if they are attacked? It is not enough to be a NATO member, but we must be there. But what about supplies and other things? And the promontory has nothing to do with it, right? Why would we give people out of here? We can hardly be accused of doing that. You have to turn to your own party brothers from that time, or whoever it was. When we talk about deterrence, we look forward to what happens when we build our strong defense. We are fighting in vain for you to understand that you need to buy the right anti-aircraft systems with the right capacity. But here I think you're going to go all wrong. I am deeply concerned about this. Would joining NATO increase or reduce tensions in our region? There are many experts who believe that this would increase tensions. Could the honourable Member take that into account at some point? Now the honourable Member is not in a position to reply. I try to make it clear that when I say a lot of deterrents, I see in front of me that we have built up the strong defence. Until then, it is not very deterrent. But it will be, if the defence is strengthened in the way we want and if Sweden enters into a covenant with Finland. NATO itself has said that they are not looking for a treaty with NATO but for us to build a strong Swedish defence.
i-a54ab830bbaaf279-1270	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 10 in the report. It is not easy to come up with something new and exciting this late in the debate, when it is well over 21. But the world is changing, and we need to change with it. In my youth, I was a flight driver in the Swedish Armed Forces and experienced the end of the Cold War during the 80's. The Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact existed throughout the Baltic States, Poland, East Germany and south through Europe. And half of the EU's 28 countries were dictatorships in the 1970s and 1980s. There has been a fantastic development in Europe, from the Communist yoke to democracy and freedom. In the 1980s, until the fall of the Berlin Wall on 9 November 1989, we had a completely different security policy situation. The Baltic Sea was boiled by military activity. I'll try to describe what a flight operation could look like. At that time we were often on standby on Gotland, and when there was something special going on we could sit in our aircraft, with the engines running even, to wait for a start order. During a start we were assigned to fly out low, radar silence and without radar on at high speed east, with the assignment to photograph a Soviet submarine that was out testing. We did. We managed to find the sub. After it was clear, we rose straight up a few thousand meters and hung on a Russian bomber fleet practicing attacks on the Polish coast. After we had looked at it for a while, we heard over the radio that the Russian fighter flight had started against us. So we turned towards them, turned a few laps with the Russian fighter and then went home again because the petrol started to run out. We landed on Gotland after 50 minutes. All of this happened on a flight. This is an illustration of how much activity there was in our neighbourhood with participants from NATO countries such as Germany, the United States, Denmark and Warsaw Pact countries such as the Soviet Union, Poland and East Germany. After the fall of the Soviet Union, virtually all activities in the Baltic Sea ceased. At least there was very low activity. It was a new time of hope. People in the old Eastern countries experienced democracy and regained their freedom. During this time we saw Russia approaching democratic values and the West. Russia also opened up, which greatly contributed to the priority given to defence in many state budgets, year after year. It is fast to close down and reduce the size of our defenses, but it takes a very long time to rebuild our defence capabilities. During a security conference in Mü nchen in 2007, the Russian President, Vladimir Putin, gave a speech pointing out a new direction for Russia. In retrospect, it could be said that this was the start of a change in the security policy situation. Yet it was only in February 2014, when Russia annexed Crimea in Ukraine, that the eyes of many people were opened. It should be remembered that the distance between Sweden and Ukraine is 600 km. Ukraine is awfully close to Sweden. Madam President, I would like With the new security policy situation in mind, the Center Party has taken a major responsibility by participating in negotiations to strengthen Swedish defence capabilities. When I say defense, I mean the whole defense. It is not only the military parts that have lost their ability, but also the civil defence. My midson, who is 18 years old, has recently been called to sign. He has also received a booklet sent home on how to act in the event of a crisis. These are signals that show that Sweden's awareness of crisis and total defence capabilities has been raised in a good way. When I have contact with authorities, municipalities and organisations, I can also see that we are working together in a new way today. The defence efforts that the Center Party has contributed to are good, but even more effort will be needed forward, not only to build up defence capabilities but also to maintain them. In the longer term, we need to increase defence appropriations to 2% of GDP. Madam President, I would like Sweden has ordered 60 JAS Gripen E / F that will be able to defend the whole of Sweden. I would like to tell you about the number of aircraft in the Swedish Air Force since the post-war period. Saab managed to build an amazingly good aircraft, J29 Tunnan, after the war. It was equal to the best airplanes in the world back then. It also raised the Swedish aviation industry to an international peak where we have managed to stay. There were 661 flying barrels built. The next generation of aircraft, 32 Lansen, was built in 450 copies. Then came the J35 Dragon, which was built in 644 copies. But then you should remember that 51 went to Denmark. These planes were parallel, at the same time. So you should add the amount sometimes. In the case of 37 Viggen, these were built in 329 copies. And when we get to JAS Gripen, the Swedish Armed Forces have ordered and received 201 Gripen A/ B and C/ D. Today we still have about 100, which are operational. The order for the next generation of escape gplanes, JAS Gripen E/F, is 60. I am very aware that today's modern aircraft have a capacity that many times exceeds the previous generation. But it should also be borne in mind that even the capacity of opponents has increased during this time. In fact, it is the combination of the weapons platform, that is, the aircraft and its weapons, that constitutes the capacity. JAS Gripen E/F and also JAS Gripen C/D, combined with the weapons systems we have today, make Swedish air defence very strong. Nevertheless, I am somewhat concerned about the number of aircraft. I do not wish to pre-empt any negotiations, but I assume that the question of the number will come up on the table in the future. When the Gripen system replaced the Viggen system, we almost completely scrapped new Viggen aircraft. I can understand that; keeping two completely different aircraft systems running at the same time is expensive for a small country like Sweden. But when it comes to Gripen, it is possible to maintain Gripen C/D in the system while introducing Gripen E/F, in order to maintain a higher number of aircraft and not cause capital destruction. Madam President, I would like The security situation has changed. But the solution is not a retrogression to the time that was. New times require new solutions. In our neighbourhood, the world has changed. Sweden should seek even more of defence cooperation in the Nordic countries, and we should seek full membership of NATO to benefit from all defence guarantees. NATO membership is also a declaration of solidarity with our Baltic neighbours and the rest of free Europe. Since defence policy must be conducted with a long-term perspective, these issues require broad political support. The Center Party will participate in this work.
