i-20a11ab6ed108f13-15	Madam President, I would like In the light of the recent investigation into possible Swedish access to the Nuclear Ban Convention, Karin Enström has asked me how I ensure that the long-term security policy consequences are adequately assessed and that the Armed Forces' views have been taken into account. Let me first give a slightly broader context to the issue. Unfortunately, I am forced to note that nuclear weapons have once again been caught in the broad political eye in a way that has not been the case since the Cold War. An alarming feature of this development is the investment made by nuclear states to modernise their arsenals, another the more prominent role that nuclear weapons in some quarters play in political and military strategic thinking. Another is the challenge for the global non-proliferation regime posed by North Korea's nuclear ambitions, as well as the uncertainty about the future of such an important nuclear agreement with Iran. The risk of nuclear weapons actually being used – intentionally or unintentionally – must be taken seriously. All of this adds to the frustration of the lack of progress in the work on nuclear disarmament. It is therefore more urgent than ever that the impasse in the field of disarmament can be lifted and that concrete steps can be taken towards the overall goal of a nuclear-free world. This is the reason why Sweden chose to actively participate in the process that led up to the Nuclear Ban Convention – or, in English, Treasure on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. The potential that we saw, and still see, is that a ban can help to strengthen the global norm against nuclear weapons in the long term. An ongoing work on text analysis was carried out during the negotiations and formed the basis for the decision to vote in favour of the approval of the Convention when the negotiations were concluded this summer. This position was prepared in the usual way, i.e. between all the departments concerned within the Government Office. In addition, the issue has been discussed on several occasions in the International Law and Disarmament Delegation, which I lead and where some authorities, including the Swedish Armed Forces, are also represented. In order for the government to have the best possible basis for decision-making, it is crucial that the analysis of the investigation be thoroughly carried out. The mission is thus widely formulated. The investigator has to penetrate complex issues. They include Swedish disarmament and non-proliferation policies, the Convention's relationship with other relevant conventions and agreements, Sweden's combined bi- and multilateral security and defence cooperation, the possible need for adaptations of Swedish law and guidelines that the Convention gives rise to, and the possibilities for withdrawal from the Convention. An analysis of the long-term security policy implications, which Enström specifically asks about, will thus form one of the parts of the investigation. The questions make it important to have a wide range of information gathering. In accordance with the directive, the investigator shall consult experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and other relevant departments. In addition, he will obtain information from authorities and research and civil society as well as other stakeholders in Sweden but also abroad. I take for granted that the Swedish Armed Forces will be one of the authorities that the investigator will meet within the framework of his mission.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-23	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. I would like to begin by saying that I share the concern expressed by the Foreign Minister in his response to an increased focus on nuclear weapons, increased investment and also a significantly increased rhetoric not only in speech but also in doctrines, as well as the threat we see from countries that do not have nuclear weapons but which have a clear agenda that they want nuclear weapons. That is, of course, worrying. I also share the frustration expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the very slow progress in the field of disarmament. What I have asked about is how the government has discussed the convention that now exists, whether Sweden participated in the negotiations, and also supported it. It is also about the continued work to arrive at whether Sweden will finally support this convention and then ratify it. I think it is a good thing that an investigation has been set up, because this is a difficult and important issue. There are a lot of question marks that need to be straightened out before you can take a stand. I have read the directives, and I have listened to the foreign minister's reply. It is true that it is described here that we should analyse the meaning of the Convention itself and what consequences it could have for Sweden if we take office, not least for our combined bi- and multilateral cooperation that we have in the area of security and defence policy. The investigation will also analyse how – and this is very important; I will come back to it – the Convention is in line or at risk of not being consistent with the other conventions in this area. What I am looking for, and that is why I have written this interpellation, is that I am afraid that the directive has not expressed sufficiently clearly what the consequences are for Swedish security policy as a whole. What I am most concerned about is that it is not looking at the consistency of our freedom of action in the future. I think that would be the most serious thing. We agree that we want active disarmament work and see fewer nuclear weapons in the world, but what I am worried about, and that is why I have put this interpellation, is that this search will be inadequate, that there will be a list of what this will mean for cooperation. But what does it mean as a whole for Sweden's security policy in the future, and what does it mean for our freedom of action? The government tends to point out that it is security in Europe, freedom of action for Sweden and disarmament in the world that are the cornerstones of security policy. I do not really see that the government took this into account when drafting the directive for the investigation.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-32	Madam President, I would like It is an almost incomprehensible criticism because, of course, the directive is in such a way that it captures exactly this. It also captures our collaborations, and it is very clear but, of course, generally and widely formulated, because the investigator must work in that way. These are precisely the issues at stake. In fact, I had hoped that both the Moderates and, not least, the Center Party, which was previously active on the issue of nuclear disarmament, would at some point say that it is not acceptable for either NATO or our partners to talk about how Sweden should approach such a question. Sweden has a long and honorable tradition of working against nuclear weapons in the world. They are trying to steer us and get a veto against all the countries that are feeling a great frustration about the way things are going, and they are trying to threaten our cooperation. They say that we will be able to cooperate. In fact, Karin Enström, it must already be our starting point today that we can continue to stand up for our position also in the view of nuclear weapons. At the same time, we will work together. I believe that we, from the Swedish side, have to say together that this is our starting point. We shall continue to mark against nuclear weapons, keep our policies, continue a good Swedish tradition and cooperate with all those countries that now feel an enormous frustration about how the nuclear weapons states are up to themselves. This shows that current policies do not work at all. It does not act as a deterrent. On the contrary, we see both modernisation and the threat of acquiring new weapons. In addition, there are countries that are already carrying out bomb tests. I'm afraid that's what's behind the interpellation. Now the investigation will make a proper legal and political analysis of the issue so that there is a good basis for taking a position on whether Sweden should sign and ratify. That has been our attitude from the beginning when we were involved in the issue, unlike the previous government, which had no commitment at all to the nuclear issue. We have resumed our commitment, and it is needed more than ever. Developments in the world have shown this. The investigation will certainly address the issue of our cooperation. The starting point is our policy in this area. We believe that it must rest on all three legs: cooperation, military freedom of alliance and our right to have a defence. We're strengthening our defense capabilities. That is how we want it to continue. It is clear that these elements are included in the directives to the investigator. It's an excellent person who's doing the investigation. I would like a little more political consensus on this issue and a signal that Sweden, as an independent nation, has the right to take decisions without being subjected to threats and pressure from either NATO Member States or other partners.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-40	Madam President, I would like Let's get to the point, not the investigation. I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it goes without saying that we in Sweden make our own decisions. We make our own defence decisions, and we make our own security policy decisions. That's the way it should be. But of course we do it in a context. We live in a world where we depend on others. We build our security in collaboration with others. That is why this is important. Then, of course, it is up to us here in Sweden how we finally decide. But we need to listen to and analyse what different positions will have for Sweden. We can't think them away or pretend they don't exist. For me, this is not about threats, it is about analysing how our collaborations will be affected. Then you have to draw your conclusions from it. I see three problems with the Convention. The first problem is how it affects our most important collaborations. Sweden's defence and security cooperation exists within the EU. Sweden is a partner of NATO. Then there are several bilateral collaborations, not least with the United States and also with other countries that have nuclear weapons. They can influence exercises, and they can influence defence industrial cooperation. You have to analyze. Then, of course, you have to evaluate the consequences and whether you are prepared to take them or not. I don't see now... but we'll also wait for the investigation... that this has a positive impact on our collaborations. The second problem is that the Convention risks undermining existing conventions, not least the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Several countries have said that. This applies to the wording on verification mechanisms contained in the new Convention. The third problem, Madam President, is that whatever a government thinks today, the agreement risks tying up our freedom of action for the future. There is a long tradition in Sweden to do everything we can to agree on these important issues concerning the existential for Sweden in terms of defence and security policy. Furthermore, there is a tradition of not tying up future governments. Joining this convention is very likely to create problems if another government at another time, if there is broad support, for example, would like to apply for membership of NATO. I do not think it is compatible. It is difficult to understand whether it is possible to withdraw from the Convention at all. I understand that this is a difficult path. In a conflict, there is absolutely no way to withdraw from the Convention. The Foreign Minister knows that I and my party are in favour of NATO membership. But regardless of whether you are for or against, it is important not to bind future governments and future parliaments. I am concerned about this. The price could be an agreement which is likely to have a very small impact on the states that currently have nuclear weapons. I would like to hear how the Foreign Minister views this. It will be a doubtful effect on those countries that have nuclear weapons, which will reduce their arsenals, and a high price for us.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-50	Madam President, I would like I would like to comment on the last thing Karin Enström said. It is an important point and a relevant issue. How do we affect the nuclear states? We want to influence them. We want the nuclear states to move in the right direction. None of what is now has helped in their view of development. These states have shown little willingness to negotiate, not least in the NPT, the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Last time, no progress was made. The disarmament conference has made no progress over 20 years. Instead, they talk about acquiring new weapons. Therefore, this Convention becomes another element. An important task, in addition to reviewing the Convention, must be to create ways to bridge over to the nuclear weapons states. I do not think anyone imagines that these states would be involved in the negotiations. I don't think anyone thought so. We would have liked to, but we understood that it was unrealistic. The Convention is just as much a norm-setting mark from 122 of the world's countries, which has signed that nuclear states must now take this issue seriously. If there is no way of persuading by the existing forms and conventions, this must be indicated, as has been done to those countries which possess other weapons of mass destruction. I also think that the Convention should be a practical tool. I believe that it should also be used to create forums in which we discuss with the nuclear states. We are ready to take on the role of creating that kind of discussion. It will be a matter of credibility for the nuclear countries. Are they ready? Would they come to discussions on how developments that have recently been seen should be halted? The Convention must form part of the entire arsenal of measures. I am proud to represent a government that says that we must more clearly than ever mark against nuclear weapons. At a time when it is so close also to accidental use, in other words that mistakes or technical problems can lead to nuclear weapons being triggered, we must be fully active. I am afraid that in the opposition, with your policy and interest in joining NATO, you will be prepared to sell out all of this. It sounds a bit like that now: we are not going to speak too loudly about this; we are not going to accede to this convention. You have been very little active in the discussion. Even when they have been invited to the discussion on these issues, the opposition has not shown much interest, but it is only now that there is a prohibition convention that it is interesting. The directives, I believe, contain all the most important elements to discuss and clarify, not least the relationship with other treaties and conventions. This is important, because, as I said, this Convention should also be a practical political tool. But I wish you would stand up and say more clearly that this is the way forward and not just say that we should now give the nuclear countries a veto, that we should not be allowed to sign a ban convention, that we should not be allowed to do one and the other with reference to cooperation. I believe that we should refrain from doing so. We all benefit from that.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-58	Madam President, I would like There are two parts to this. It is about the effect that this convention is supposed to have, and it is clear that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has a great deal of faith in it. Since none of the countries that currently have nuclear weapons are behind the Convention – they have not been involved in the negotiations – I am much more pessimistic about a ban convention. It could possibly affect those countries that are now democratic with nuclear weapons. However, I find it very difficult to see that authoritarian countries such as Russia and China should care about such a convention at all. Even if it were to receive popular support in those countries, it would unfortunately have little chance of having any effect whatsoever. Moreover, if it has a doubtful effect or perhaps no effect at all, the price will be very high, not because of threats and perhaps not because of disagreements, but because it will affect our current cooperation – which is of course important and prioritised by the current government – with NATO and not least with the United States. Then, as I said, there is the risk that the Convention will undermine the Non-Proliferation Treaty. The great risk I think the Foreign Minister is waving away. The last point that I had, which is the most serious and far-reaching, is the risk that this will bind future freedom of action for Sweden. I think that's serious. When we do things like this, we should agree and have broad support for doing them. If we join the convention, we risk tying up Sweden's freedom of action for a long time to come. I would like to hear about the Foreign Minister's view on this.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-63	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Enström! This is an important debate, and all the questions that Karin Enström raises at the end are precisely the questions that the investigation will help to provide answers to. How does this affect the other conventions and relations with the other existing conventions? What is it that the nuclear states would actually care about? That's a little bit different, but that's what you start to wonder about. Have they shown any willingness to engage in the ongoing negotiations? What can actually help to set the norm against nuclear weapons and nuclear proliferation if not existing conventions? It is this frustration that has led us to have this convention. I'm not waving any of these questions away. I think that is exactly why we have set up this investigation – to ensure that we have sorted out all those aspects. We take this very seriously, because this issue is important. I hope that we will continue to be able to maintain a common understanding of how we view nuclear weapons, nuclear use, nuclear proliferation and the risk of nuclear weapons. I would also like to say that the Non-Proliferation Treaty is and remains of fundamental importance for our disarmament policy. We must make efforts to achieve success in 2020 when negotiating again. As the world is developing now, the challenges are significant and the debate is very polarised. The attitude and willingness of nuclear states to make concrete progress will mean a great deal to all of us, so this debate will, thank God, continue. I hope that we will find points where we agree and at the same time be able to discuss what needs to be addressed for the future in order to hopefully take a step towards a nuclear-free world.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-68	Madam President, I would like Karin Enström has asked me what assessment I make of the security policy situation in the Arctic and whether I stand by Sweden not to develop a new Arctic strategy. As Karin Enström points out, climate change and the security situation in the surrounding world also present new challenges and opportunities in the Arctic. The major challenges facing us in the Arctic must be addressed through cooperation with all regional actors. The Arctic Council is the primary forum for international cooperation on Arctic issues. However, the Council's mandate does not include discussing military security policy issues. Sweden's work in the Arctic Council is still guided by the Swedish strategy developed in 2011 for the Arctic region. This, together with the reinforced Arctic Environmental Strategy of January 2016, continues to reflect well the priorities pursued by the Government within the framework of the Arctic Council. The Government also intends to continue to pursue an active Arctic policy in all relevant areas of cooperation such as sustainable economic development, environmental and climate work, research and the human dimension that fills the strategy with content. Here you can mention the importance of continuing with the implementation of recommendations and of running projects. Within the framework of the Arctic Council, Sweden is pursuing a determined and long-term approach, where climate and environmental issues are clearly at the centre – in particular the importance of sustainable use of resources, including increased work for the protection of the sensitive environment, the protection of terrestrial and marine ecosystems and the conservation of biodiversity. In the field of environment and climate, Sweden, for example, has been pushing ahead since 2011 for reinforced resilience work within the Arctic Council and has taken the initiative for a wetland project. We also actively collaborate with Västerbotten and Norrbotten on the role of the regions in sustainable development and provide support for their Arctic work. In the field of research, a research agreement was signed in connection with the ministerial meeting in Fairbanks, Alaska, in May of this year. It will further strengthen research exchanges and collaborations. An intensive cooperation and network is established between Swedish universities and other Arctic countries. The ice-breaking and research vessel Oden, as well as the research stations in Abisko and Tarfala, are important in this context. The human dimension, including support for indigenous peoples' opportunities to participate in the work of the Arctic Council, is a priority. All in all, this means that we do not currently see the need for a completely new Arctic strategy. International security policy interest in the Arctic has increased, and several countries have strengthened their presence in the region. At the same time, the security policy situation in Sweden's immediate area has deteriorated over time and continued to be characterised by uncertainty. All in all, this means that Sweden closely follows the development of the security policy situation in the Arctic. It is of the utmost importance that we preserve the Arctic as a low-voltage area characterised by cooperation and dialogue and with respect for international law, including Unclo. Developments in the outside world increase the importance and added value for Sweden of being involved in regional cooperation structures. In recent decades, we have had a strong commitment to regional cooperation structures in the north: the Arctic Council, the Barents Council, the Council of Baltic Sea States, the Nordic Council of Ministers and the EU's northern dimension. The Councils act as a positive complement to bilateral and multilateral contacts, not least with Russia and the United States, thereby strengthening our neighbourhood policy. They are arenas in which we have continuous contact and dialogue with Russia and in which constructive cooperation and concrete projects are carried out. Cooperation within the Councils helps build trust and provides stability. As Karin Enström well knows, in 2017 – 2019 we will have a leading role in these various cooperation forums by chairing CBSS, Barents Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-76	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. We agree that the Arctic region faces major challenges. It is really enough to look at how the ice cover of the Arctic Ocean has changed. Over the last 30 years, the ice covering the sea in summer has decreased by half, and the volume has decreased by three quarters. If this trend continues, the Arctic Ocean will largely be ice-free in the summer of 2040. It is a frightening and extremely rapid development. Climate change – it is of course not just about the melting of ice – poses difficult and new challenges both for those living in the Arctic and for the rest of the world. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said, the Arctic Council is the main forum for international cooperation on Arctic issues. Since its inception, I guess, it has decided not to deal with security policy and security policy aspects within the framework of the Council. At the same time, the Arctic Council, in view of developments in security policy, the acute Russian rhetoric and the increased military presence in the region, which is also our neighbourhood, can be seen as a good opportunity to influence indirectly. These issues cannot be addressed directly in the Council, but it is certainly an opportunity to engage indirectly in dialogue on all the issues that will also affect us in terms of security policy and to have a forum for cooperation to work together for responsible development in the region. As far as exactly how to do it, my question is about a new Arctic strategy, not primarily about the fact that we absolutely must have a new document. But I can see that there have been such major changes since 2011 – the environmental strategy is an important part of this – that there is scope and need for an updated strategy so that more aspects can come in, not least in the assessment of what development will look like. I believe that an Arctic strategy must also be about what is not discussed in the Arctic Council; it must be broader, and that is why I have asked this question. We must, of course, jointly do everything we can to ensure that the Arctic can remain a low-voltage area of security policy. It should not be in our interests or in the interests of any of our neighbours that this should become a plan for great powers playing against each other. The challenges are also very great in terms of infrastructure for those living in these areas so that they can remain, run businesses and get good education, while at the same time taking advantage of the very sensitive environment. Major changes are taking place, as I said. We have also seen that the President of the United States has lifted the ban on drilling in two areas. It would be interesting and important in such a strategy to look at how this affects the way we work on these issues. How does China's newly awakened interest, the new era that China has begun, affect? And how do Russian ambitions affect our cooperation in the Arctic? That's why I've been calling for an update.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-85	Madam President, I would like In fact, we fully agree on these issues. The core issue is how to look at the existing strategy, and so far we have felt that the strategy developed in 2011 by the previous government and what has now been done by strengthening the environmental strategy at least reflects the priorities we have with regard to the Arctic Council. Therefore, we have not so far felt that we should start work on rewriting the whole document, but we have found it, because the most important areas are covered there, more important to concentrate on implementing and initiating projects. But it is true as Karin Enström says that developments are moving fast, so I think that a new mandate should be looked at again. I'm not ruling that out. I also mean that it is a question of resources – having a budget for people who are going to do it and taking responsibility for how it is going to be implemented. The rest is very much about making assessments on the basis of new information and a partly new policy on the part of the United States. I was at a meeting in Alaska where Obama attended and where our own researcher Johan Rockström gave an unforgettable speech, which impressed everyone. But this is overplayed, one might say, with a whole new attitude on the part of the United States. Of course, we can also see that the military and geopolitical situation will be a new one, even if those issues are not dealt with directly by the Arctic Council, thank God. But we want to keep this as a low-voltage area, and how do we do it with other policies and cooperation? So I'm going to be a little more open and say that I think that for a new mandate you need to look at how we are going to do with the Arctic Strategy and in any case, as you say, update it properly. You may not have to spend so much resources on extensive work on rewriting everything, but we should make sure that we are modern and up-to-date with development. As I said, this is also a question of finding budgetary resources and allocating resources. I think there will be much more focus on the Arctic area. It will mean completely new opportunities and also new risks. Cooperation on, for example, rescue operations in the Arctic – including Russia, so far in a constructive way – constitutes important confidence building measures. This in turn affects, as Karin Enström says, the other areas. I do not, therefore, want to dismiss this. Right now, we haven't had the resources or the time. We think that we have the elements we need and that it was a good strategy that was developed in 2011; a lot of work had been done on it. We think that we can now use the document for the priorities that we have and continue to work, but I am not ruling out an upgrade in the future.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-93	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the more positive message! As I said, there should not be a conflict over the exact document it should be and the status it should have, but the whole purpose of this issue is to point to the major changes – both climate change and security policy changes, which to some extent go together and affect each other. It would therefore be good to make an update so that we are as modern as possible, understand all these complex relationships and challenges and are even better equipped. I am thinking both of cooperation in the Arctic Council and of the rather special period we are in, where we have several other presidencies in overlapping organisations. It would be important to further describe Sweden's view of how a strategy of this kind can use the various overlapping organisations and forms of cooperation to have a clear line. Then there is the focus on different areas in the different forums. That should be the case, because otherwise the risk is that you block the cooperation if you want to address everything on all parts. I therefore see this, if not as a promise, as a positive direction from the Foreign Minister. We see, as I said, that a great deal is happening. I also have a specific question that is mentioned in an answer that I have received. This is a mission to the Swedish Export Council's offices in the Nordic countries, Russia, the USA, Canada and northern Sweden, which is about building competence to promote Swedish commercial interests. It sounds like a good mission, but does the Foreign Minister know how this has turned out? Has the competence of the Export Council representatives been built up, and has it led to that we can now better promote also Swedish commercial interests, which is an important factor for living and living in the Arctic area?
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-98	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Enström, for this debate. As you can see, I am also interested in safeguarding that we have a broad consensus on this issue. Politically, it is an enormous strength that we share our view of what priorities we should have and what issues we should deal with in order to maintain this as a low-voltage area. But we should also see what we can do to have more people-to-people contacts and also commercial contacts and so on. Some of this overlaps every other. We have now taken over the Presidency of the Barents Council, where we work closely with North and Västerbotten, where this is most tangible and most topical. If we open up these contacts, it means direct access to commercial contacts, trade contacts and other things, as well as opportunities to operate economically across borders in the region. Just as you say, Karin Enström, things are happening very quickly when it comes to climate change. It also ultimately creates new opportunities and opportunities. We therefore need to follow this very closely. It's like moving matter that we're dealing with. This is on the agenda in all forms of cooperation, now that we are chairman. There it is clear that this is overlapping, and it is important that we manage these contacts. Research cooperation is also part of this. I can't tell you exactly how to follow it up at the moment. I'd be happy to when I get back to the State Department to hear how you've lived up to this. What I have mainly seen and met is the Barent cooperation, where this becomes very concrete. Johan Rockström described the ice in the Arctic as a hat on the planet's head. If you remove the cap and the sun continues to shine, the head warms up very quickly. That's exactly what's happening, and it's going a lot faster than we thought. It is both the ice and, for example, the permafrost that melts. This makes a country like Russia realise that we need to take this issue seriously, because it will cost huge money. This is in itself a reason to keep this in focus and to continue to reflect on how we become as effective as possible and how we can cover all these different types of contacts – from commercial and people-to-people contacts, environmental and climate issues to security policy – and ensure that we do it together. We do so on the basis of this strategy. Why not modernise it and upgrade it for the next parliamentary term, so that it also covers what has happened very quickly in recent times?
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-104	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for the information. Regardless of what the government looks like after future elections, it is crucial that we have a good strategy with good goals and that we know how to prioritise and how to implement the cooperation in the different areas. There you have to help each other. Although security policy aspects should not be addressed in the Arctic Council, they must be included in a strategy relating to the region. It must also be pointed out how Sweden can best work in the various forms of cooperation for what is important to us. Hopefully it will also benefit our neighbours and everyone in the Arctic region. The latest news about how CO2 emissions look – we thought they had started to level out, but in fact they have increased – is frightening. It has direct repercussions in this particular area. We must make further efforts here. I welcome the message from the Foreign Minister. No matter what the government will look like after the next elections, we will have to ensure that there is competence and willingness to update, so that we have the best possible policy in this area.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-108	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Enström, for this debate. In particular, within the Arctic Council, we will continue to work for enhanced international cooperation in the region. We want to help ensure that the Arctic remains a peaceful region of cooperation. As is well known, eight states have territory above the Arctic Circle, but interest in the area does not stop there. China, which has been an observer to the Arctic Council since 2013, also shows a clear interest in the Arctic, not least given the conditions for economic activity and for research cooperation. It is also important for the Council to take advantage of the interests, knowledge and experience of the observer states, while maintaining the need for sustainable development. These are incredibly important platforms for cross-border cooperation and confidence-building contacts in the region. There is a mutual interest in protecting international and maritime law, Unclo, and in preserving the region as a low-voltage area. This is also one of the few remaining arenas we have for talks with Russia and between Russia and the United States. We have to keep building on it. As I said, I appreciate that we have a broad political consensus on these issues in Sweden.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-112	Madam President, I would like Ellen Juntti has asked me what measures the government has taken to prioritise the issue of shortening the processing times for sexual offences against children. She has also asked about the government, and I intend to introduce a coherent deadline for the whole legal process concerning crimes against children. The government has taken several measures to improve the conditions for the police to carry out their work. The Government considers, among other things, that a substantial increase in the number of police employees is needed and has therefore proposed historically large additions of resources to the Police Authority for the next three years. The Government has previously given the Police Authority the opportunity to increase the number of places in current police training and also plans for police training at two additional universities. It is now starting to produce results. Compared to the average over the last six years, almost twice as many students have been admitted to police training this year. The Government considers that there is a need to continue the development of the judiciary in order to better prevent and combat sexual offences against children. The internet and social media, in particular, have brought with them new opportunities for perpetrators to commit these crimes. Against this background, the Government has commissioned the Police Authority, in close cooperation with the Swedish Prosecution Authority, to identify and implement measures to strengthen and develop the ability to detect, investigate, prevent and prevent sexual offences against children. Dedicated goat shall be reported by 15 April 2018 at the latest. The legislation on offences against children is clear as regards the urgency of handling cases where children are plaintiffs. At the same time, there may sometimes be circumstances in which the time limit has to be exceeded, such as suspicion of further crimes arising during the course of the investigation. In many cases, it may be in the interests of the plaintiff that the suspicions are dealt with in a context. The internal follow-up by the Prosecutor's Office of the time-limit has shown for a number of years that the time-limits are held in two thirds of the cases. With regard to the question of a coherent deadline for the entire judicial process, there is an investigation proposal on this which has been referred. The proposal aims to coordinate as far as possible the deadlines for cases involving young suspects and young plaintiffs, thus shortening the time limit for young plaintiffs and extending it for young suspects. However, it is not self-evident that coordinated deadlines lead to efficiency gains in investigative activities. For example, cases involving young plaintiffs generally take a little longer to investigate than cases involving young suspects. Some consultation bodies therefore point out that the proposed deadline may be too short for young plaintiffs. It could therefore be the case that too far-reaching compromises could impair the quality of investigations in the case of young plaintiffs, for example because of refraining from investigative measures in order to be able to meet the deadline.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-117	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Justice, for your answer. I've put the interpellation on sexual crimes against children because I'm very worried about progress. The figures go up. In 2016, over 3,000 rapes against children were reported to the police. In addition, there are many other sexual assaults. We also know that in the case of these crimes it is a great number of darkness. Children who are victims of sexual crimes often feel very bad mentally. They can't get through school. Later in life, they can become addicts or end up in crime – it happens more often than children who have not been exposed to this. That is why we must do everything we can to combat these atrocities. The police don't have the resources. Recently, it has become apparent that even rapes against children are being piled up. You don't have time to investigate in time. When there is a reasonable suspect in cases of offences against children, the prosecutor must prosecute or close the investigation within 90 days. That time is not being held. Save the Children did a survey a couple of years ago. It showed, among other things, that Norrköping can only meet that deadline in 50 per cent of cases. And a couple of weeks ago, it was a part of Uppsala. This deadline cannot be met in 30% of cases. The longer it takes, the worse the conditions are for these investigations to be completed. The baby can forget. The child may be affected. The suspect can influence witnesses. Crime tools can be removed. Bad things can happen when it lasts, which in many cases can lead to the closure of investigations. Then the child will have no redress. Crimes often occur in homes. Sometimes the child can go back to the home, where the abuse can continue. Two years ago, I put an interpellation on this matter to Ygeman, who was then Minister of the Interior. He said that this is a high priority for the government. I don't really think it seems that way, because the situation has gotten worse. I think the government has given a strange answer here. It is chosen to highlight that there are advantages for the plaintiff if the deadline is exceeded. I think it's weird to say that. I myself have been a full-time child investigator for three years in Gothenburg, and I have never heard of the benefits of exceeding the deadline. The sooner, the better, for the reasons I spoke of just now. It doesn't mean it's going to be bad and sloppy. This means questioning, for example, plaintiffs, witnesses and perpetrators quickly and effectively. That it would be good if time were exceeded, I do not agree. It may be so in very few cases. Then it may be forgiven. But, as I said, I've never heard of this.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-126	Madam President, I would like I believe that we all share the view on the seriousness of the matter and that we must do everything we can to ensure that these crimes are prevented, that they are investigated when they are reported and that the perpetrators can be prosecuted. At the same time, I think it should be made clear that there are no shortcuts in this regard. In the end, it is a resource issue: How many police officers and how many civil investigators do we have who can work with these investigations? We've done, and we're in the process of doing, police reinforcements. Those conducting these investigations may be both police officers and civil investigators. Only since 2016 we have 1,600 more civilian employees in the police, many of whom are civil investigators. We are also moving forward with major investments in the police organization. We've doubled admission to police training. A few years ago, 600 to 700 were admitted to police training. This year, 1 304 has started police training. And I had the privilege the other day to welcome another 133 police officers during a graduation ceremony at the S Tadshuset here. There are a total of 295 police officers going out in the day. There are no shortcuts, but it is about strengthening the police organization in such a way as to be able to meet the needs that exist. We do this in terms of both resources and the number of people involved in education. As Ellen Juntti knows, we will also start two new police training courses: one in Malmö and one in West Sweden. There is a deadline for these objectives. Investigations should not have to take more than three months in the case of serious offences against children. You can look at how things have looked back in time. As far as that deadline is concerned, it has been roughly the same figure: approximately two thirds of cases are dealt with within three months. We see no tangible change either for the better or for the worse in that part. You can look at the throughput time of these cases. It was actually a decrease between 2015 and 2016, from 190 days to 169 days. The important thing is, I think, that the investigations are completed so that the perpetrators can be prosecuted. Therefore, there is certainly sometimes reason to allow the investigations to last longer than three months, but this must of course be assessed on a case-by-case basis. There are also strong reasons for doing so as quickly as possible. That is why we have this deadline. We are, of course, following this month by month to see how the police deliver in the investigation cases. But, as I said, there are no shortcuts. In order to follow up on this, we have written in the government regulation letter that the Police Authority should report to the government every year. There is such a reporting requirement in the regulatory letter for this year. There is also for next year. How do you work with these errands? In addition, we have given the police and prosecutors a special task, as I mentioned in my reply, to develop methods for preventing, detecting and investigating sexual offences. It will be reported to me on 15 April 2018. Once again, I believe that this is first of all about ensuring that the police are given the resources and the staff needed to carry out these important investigations.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-134	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Justice, for your answer. I agree that there are no shortcuts. There must be staff to investigate these crimes, whether they are civil servants or police officers. There's a deal. But it is also the case that the Moderates invest more in the police than the government does. We've realized the seriousness of the situation and that there's a crisis in the police. The government doesn't want to say it, but that's the way it is. I have a lot of contact with my old colleagues in Gothenburg, especially with colleagues who work with crimes in close relationships, where crimes against children are included. It's an incredible pressure. I think the single deadline is a good one. Now there is a time limit until prosecution but no time limit from prosecution to court. I have spoken to the child prosecutor: It may take several months – up to six months and sometimes even longer – from the prosecution to the court hearing. You can imagine what it's like for a 13-year-old girl who's been raped and who's going to wait six months before there's a trial – it's easy to understand that such a girl, or a guy, can't handle the school and feels very bad mentally. Probably she or he can't even start treatment, so it's important that it goes fast-- the faster, the better. Here I have – once again – received a rather strange answer. Morgan Johansson points out that the quality of investigations can deteriorate if things go too fast and that it may be an advantage that it takes longer. As I said before, I have never experienced saying that it is an advantage that it takes longer. It could be so in very few cases, but I have never heard of it. Speed does not mean that things get sloppy and bad, but it means that you can hear the suspect more quickly and that you can hear the Witnesses before they have been affected. In addition, searches can be made so that the offender cannot remove evidence. That sometimes it is good that it takes a long time, I think, is a bad explanation from Morgan Johansson. The police are in crisis. In the past, investigations of rape against children were not piled up, but they are now. A coherent deadline is a good thing. A time limit means that investigations are not put aside and that they are dealt with at once. Then, of course, you have to give priority. That's how it is. But children are important, and I think that priority should be given. Anders Ygeman said two years ago that this is a high-priority issue within the government, but I do not think it seems so, as it has gone in the wrong direction. My question remains: is the Minister going to introduce a coherent deadline for the whole legal process?
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-145	Madam President, I would like It is not only I who claim this and who object to the investigation that was carried out, which I think came in 2013. I do not have that objection, but it is the referral bodies, including the Public Prosecutor's Office, who say that the important thing is to ensure that the investigations are carried out and that they are of good quality. We then have to follow each year how many cases you can meet the deadline. It has been stable in about two thirds of cases under both bourgeois and social democratic governments, so it is not true that we would work worse on this than you did during your time. Ellen Juntti says the Moderates want to invest more in the police. It's about that time, I guess. One problem during your time was that you trained so few police officers. Each year, you brought in 600 to 700 people for police training, but each year 400 to 500 police officers retire. You can't have such a small margin. We are now living at a time when we cannot count on a police officer who has been well trained to remain throughout his working life. There are private actors who twitch in the police and want them to start working in the private sector. We are active in a labour market in which we, as state employers, must compete with private employers in a completely different way than before. That's why you were far too low when it comes to police training, as I said, about 600 to 700 people a year. We'll make it up to you now. From this year on, we are training 1,300 police officers, and we are going up to a total staff of 10,000 by 2024. Of these, I would think that 6 000 – 7 000 cows would be police officers and 3 000 – 4 000 civilian workers, if the distribution between civilians and police would be about the same as before. For this resource we set up with SEK 2 billion annually for next year, SEK 2.3 billion for the following year and SEK 2.8 billion for the following year. This is the biggest investment throughout the 21st century and throughout the whole period that I can see, which is now almost 20 years. There are no shortcuts in this area. It's about the number of civilian investigators and the number of policemen working on these cases. We will continue this reinforcement in the coming years. However, we do not do it without demands – every time we strengthen the police, we also make sure to raise the demands on the police. That's why we have the reporting requirement in the regulation letter, and that's why we have the special assignment to the Police Authority and the Prosecutor's Office. This is also why, in its regulatory letter, the Swedish Crime Prevention Council is now tasked with analysing why more of the wide-ranging sexual crimes – not only crimes against children – do not go further in the investigation chain. Such a mandate will be given to the Crime Prevention Council. If we are to get to that and manage it, it is ultimately about how much resources and how much staffing we are prepared to put in, and that is perhaps the most important thing.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-155	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Justice, for your answer. We agree that there is a need for more employees in the police. I've worked as a cop for 30 years, and I know how much work I have to do. Especially when you work with heavy business such as crimes against children, gross female violations and similar crimes, more are needed, because it is very burdensome psychologically. I'm going back to the Moderates presenting new measures on sexual crimes last week. We want to raise the penalties considerably. With regard to rape of children, we want to raise the minimum sentence from two years in prison to three years in prison. For aggravated rape of children, we want to raise the minimum sentence from four to five years in prison. For particularly gross rape, we want the sentence to be between seven and ten years in prison. We also want to introduce a new offence: gross sexual harassment. This is based on the report presented by the police in 2016 regarding harassment at festivals during the summer of 2015. There the police said that there is a missing criminal report between harassment and rape, which we now want to introduce. This report also found that in cases involving groups of men who molest girls, who were usually under 15 years of age, the perpetrators were mainly foreign citizens. For this new crime, we want a minimum sentence of nine months. At the same time, we want to lower the deportation limit to six months in prison. This would mean that the groups of men who molest girls could be expelled.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-161	Madam President, I would like Here are the Moderates once again late on the ball, may I say. During this parliamentary term, we have been working on what I regard as the most important criminal justice reform that we will carry out during this period, namely the reform of sex crime legislation. Before Christmas, I will come up with a legislative referral in which we are doing such a reform. It is a question of punishing certain crimes, particularly the serious crimes. The proposal also provides for a penalty to the extent that more actions against children will be considered as serious – it is in the committee proposal. There is also a transition to consenting in relation to the rape clause and a negligent crime, which in itself is a major change. When it comes to expulsions, if you commit crimes in Sweden and are not Swedish citizens, you should of course be expelled, especially for these serious crimes. I do not think there are any differences of opinion at all. As you raise this again, I would like to say that these are issues that we have been working on throughout our term of office, and, as I said, we will deliver further changes in criminal law even before Christmas. However, it does not matter how severe the punishment we have if we do not catch any criminals. Then it is a question of continuing to strengthen the police organization. This requires money, and this does not mean prioritising tax cuts before spending on the police. During your period, eight years, you reduced taxes by 140 billion, and you spent over 5 billion on the police. I can't. You end up in a situation where you can't train as many cops as you need. That's why you only had 600 to 700 police officers trained. We must now make up for this by doubling the intake to the Police College. Both resources and sharper legislation are what we need in this regard.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-169	Madam President, I would like Beatrice Ask has asked me what measures I have taken in relation to the report of the Arbitration Investigation Review of the Arbitration Act (SOU 2015:37). She has also asked how I and the government intend to ensure that Sweden is also the world leader in dispute resolution in the future. Effective dispute resolution mechanisms are a prerequisite for people and businesses to take advantage of their rights and, ultimately, such mechanisms are therefore a guarantee that democratic principles will have an impact in practice. Effective tools for asserting their rights are also of fundamental importance both for local businesses and for international investment and foreign trade. Sweden has a long tradition in arbitration. Since the 1970s, Sweden has developed into a leading arbitration country also in an international perspective. The Arbitration Institute of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce, which celebrates 100 years this year, has played a major role in this development. Modern legislation is an important part of the government's work to ensure that Sweden continues to have a leading position in the area of arbitration. The fact that parties to international business disputes settle their disputes here in the country is a major asset for Sweden, and arbitration in international disputes is an important Swedish export product. I therefore welcome the report of the arbitration inquiry with its proposal to modernise the law on arbitration. The proposals of the arbitration inquiry have generally received a positive response from the consultation bodies. The present law has been in force for almost 20 years. According to the investigation, the law has been considered to work well. Many of the proposals in the report provide solutions to problems identified by practitioners. In our work, therefore, we have regular contact with law enforcement. This helps us to focus on the issues that have been perceived as most pressing from the perspective of practitioners. The report is now being discussed in the Government Office. The work focuses on the Government presenting proposals to the Riksdag during the spring to modernise the law on arbitration.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-175	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank you for your answer to my interpellation. This is an important subject. In Swedish industry, there is a strong tradition and competence in resolving business disputes through arbitration instead of court proceedings. In international business disputes, especially the large ones, many choose Sweden as their headquarters to deal with the disputes. This is a major activity and an important thing for a trade-dependent country like Sweden. Just here in Stockholm we have about 400, perhaps more, lawyers who are full-time employees with different types of dispute resolution. It is a solid business that we have had for a long time, and it is important. But it is clear that reality is changing, and competition is great. There are many others who want to enter this arena. That was the background to the alliance government setting up an investigation to modernise the rules. It has also been received by the Minister of Justice. I am very happy to hear that there is a proposal coming this spring, but it has been too far away for two and a half years despite quite positive reactions from the referral bodies. My question, of course, is: what has been so difficult that the proposal has not been put forward? I believe that there is a rigid approach to dispute settlement. This is a Swedish noble mark, you might say. Not least in international politics, our competence in this area has been prominent. Gunnar Lagergren, who for many years was responsible for this activity and one of our leading international arbitrators, received many important assignments in international forums. He was in charge of handling arbitration in areas between India and Pakistan and between Egypt and Israel. He was also the first president to deal with thousands of claims for damages between Iran and the United States after the US Embassy in Tehran had been occupied. We can therefore play a very important role in international politics by having this competence. This means that we need to be concerned about – I do not think that there is any difference of opinion – ensuring that we have modern rules, that we are trying to modernise and keep up with it. I wish we had not only 400 but perhaps 1 000 lawyers in Stockholm who dealt with this. But it requires action. It is good that you are working together with the actors in this area. But I would like a little more action and really hope that it is a really good bill that the government will deliver this spring.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-184	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is clear that it will be good and thorough and also anchored in those who will apply the new regulatory framework. Like Beatrice Ask, I believe that this is an urgent issue. It is precisely the case that Sweden has a strong position internationally when it comes to arbitration. We have strong traditions. In fact, if one is to make some kind of international political note, this is linked to our role as non-aligned and neutral during the Cold War. This was of great importance, I believe, because Sweden and not least Stockholm became the central point for a number of dispute settlements dealing with disputes between countries. They wanted to be in a place that they experienced as neutral and where there were no strong bonds in either direction. This is part of Swedish political history. Since then, this has developed and is now not just about disputes between nations, it is not least about disputes between companies or between other interests and organisations. Many people therefore choose to place their dispute resolution precisely in Sweden because they know that we have such a strong competence in this area. Then, apart from the political angle, it becomes a question of economics. It is actually a kind of service export that Sweden represents here. We're in the final stages of preparation. The council referral is about to be completed. The last thing I heard is that in the next few weeks we will have a joint preparation in the Government Office. Beatrice Ask knows how it works in the Government Office when you're going to anchor everything. I imagine that we will go to the Law Council shortly after the end of the year, and then the bill will come in the spring. Of course you can say that we should have done this faster. However, we have delivered 115 proposals to Parliament during this parliamentary term from the Ministry of Justice, so one cannot say that we have not worked. We have done so, and we will also be able to deal with this issue. We will have new, good, modern and anchored legislation that will further strengthen Sweden's role as a central point in international dispute resolution of various international conflicts.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-189	Madam President, I would like Yes, I know very well that the Ministry of Justice is used to delivering a lot of proposals and has a high working pace. The reason I am raising this issue is that I think it is easy for this type of question to be put to the fore and to end up alongside many much more medial and interesting or urgent issues. But it is a large business that has a great significance and has had it for a hundred years, and we need to work for the future. That the bill will be well worked out, I assume, because you have been working on it for so long. I look forward with curiosity to the bill. I'm not gonna ask you questions about the content right now. That would be supposed to be, because I know the minister wouldn't answer them until everything is done. However, one issue that must of course be dealt with is the possibility of having the negotiations in, for example, English. This is important in order to be able to receive international partners. It is true, as the Minister says, that we benefited from the freedom of alliance, not least in the days of the Cold War. We still have an advantage of our geographical location, and the world is changing all the time. Sweden has a good reputation, which we shall cherish. When it comes to dispute resolution, modern rules, fast processes and, not least, important language practices are important, and I believe that we have the conditions for doing so. I look forward to the bill, and I hope that we will agree and can deliver quickly. I know that those who are working on these issues are anxious for the proposals to come forward. See you after the turn of the year, and then the Riksdag will review the well-prepared bill that the Ministry of Justice is now preparing.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-195	Madam President, I would like There's not much to add. As I said, we are in the final stage of preparation, and there will be a legislative referral shortly after the end of the year and proposal for spring. Then we will also solve all the substantive issues. I agree that the language issue is important, particularly with regard to the complaints to the Court of Appeal. That is one of the questions we are looking at, and we will see how far we are going in that part. We'll continue the process. The legislation will be modernised, and Sweden will retain its important role in international dispute resolution.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-198	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has asked me what I intend to do to enable more young people to apply for military training. On 2 March 2017, the Government decided to re-introduce military service and basic education under the Swedish Defence Obligations Act. The decision means, among other things, that all basic education starting from 1 January 2018 will be done with military service. As far as possible, the provision of personnel shall be based on the individual's interest, motivation and willingness. Working concretely to strengthen interest in basic education with military service is still crucial for more people to join the Swedish Armed Forces, and gender equality is also an important part here. Strengthening the military capability of the military units is the basis for the government's consideration of the Armed Forces' personnel supply. The Swedish Armed Forces are tasked with planning, within a given financial framework, to carry out basic training with military service for at least 4,000 persons per year in 2018 and 2019. In connection with the budget base for 2019, the Swedish Armed Forces will present a proposal that will enable 5,000 people to undergo basic training with military service in 2020 within the estimated financial envelope for 2020. At the same time, the Government Office continues to prepare proposals to strengthen the interest in implementing basic education with conscription and to strengthen the individual's interest, motivation and will. The training volumes are relatively low compared to how many show interest in carrying out basic education with compulsory military service. The Swedish Armed Forces and Totalförsvarets recruitment authority are the authorities that know what competence is required for an individual to be able to carry out basic training with military service. In order to select those individuals who have the right capacity and conditions, the authorities design so-called requirements profiles. The requirements set out in the requirements profiles correspond to the basic requirements of the Armed Forces in their respective positions. I have full confidence in the authorities' assessments in this regard.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-204	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. From January 1, 2018, military service will be reintroduced to the Swedish Armed Forces. It is a necessary change because we have not had enough applicants in our defence. However, this change could have been avoided if we were better able to recruit applicants. From the turn of the year, there will be an increase in the soldier's salary, which is welcome. Soldier salaries have remained stable since 2012. Wages, of course, play a role, and it is sad that wage increases only come with the reinstatement of military service. Not all young women and men can be soldiers, even if they want to. We have to be clear about that. The Swedish Armed Forces set the requirements for young people to be able to become capable soldiers. In addition to physical and psychological tests, the level of knowledge is a factor. Having passed upper secondary school grades on certain subjects is a basic requirement. This basic requirement automatically excludes all those who do not reach an approved level in these substances. Every year, 12 – 13 per cent of all young people finish high school without a complete grade, which means that they are not able to apply to the Swedish Armed Forces. Some of them might not be able to meet the other entry requirements, but we should be able to make it possible to become a soldier for those who are motivated and have as their sole reason against the fact that they lack one or a few grades, if they so wish. For it is not certain that you become a better soldier because you have not approved in English from high school, for example. Would the Swedish Armed Forces not be able to judge for themselves whether you can become a capable soldier even if some subject at upper secondary level is not clear? Wouldn't it be possible to study something or some subjects during training to be a soldier? And if you stay as a soldier for five years, you would really be able to supplement. Why not combine some Komvux courses with training as a soldier? We are living at a time when we must be flexible as employers. We need to make the soldier's profession more attractive. We also need soldiers who are motivated and who want to work as soldiers for a short or long time. Then we need reforms that allow you to read your grades during the soldier's time. The Swedish Armed Forces do not have a mandate to govern this, but such reforms must have the imagination to develop.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-211	Madam President, I would like The change to activate total defence obligations was absolutely necessary. This is basically about the fact that the decision taken at one time in Parliament by a majority of three votes to put the dormant one in my opinion was unrealistic. It was based on a model where we would completely professionalise the defense. At that time, there were also examples of how, in Norway, for example, a professional organization had been united with a military service organisation. It's here somewhere we are now. It is important to have full and trained units. At a time when we did not have it, it was necessary to take this decision, and I am pleased that this decision was widely accepted in Parliament as well. It was the government that had the opportunity to make the decision, according to the regulatory framework that was, and we took that opportunity. As I said, however, I have understood that there is broad support in Parliament, and that is good for us to be able to do this. It is also necessary for us to increase the military capability of our organisation. Here we are now building an organization where we get a supplement to the units every year. It will also lead to war unit exercises with regularity in order to maintain competence. A soldier who undergoes basic training will be placed in war for a period of ten years and will undergo a number of war unit exercises during this time. In terms of requirements, the Swedish Armed Forces have an important central role. The Swedish Armed Forces are also responsible for the salary discussions that take place. Here, as an employer, one has an important role to play. It is also the Swedish Armed Forces that lays down the criteria and requirements regarding the basics for being a soldier and getting employment in the Swedish Armed Forces. Now the whole gateway becomes that it is military service that forms the basis, whether you are going to become a professional soldier or finish the whole thing as a conscript and then see if you should have other types of relationships with the Swedish Armed Forces, for example to participate in the Home Guard's activities. When it comes to grades, it is required to pass grades in three subjects: Swedish, mathematics and English. This is linked to the ability to express yourself properly in the Swedish language and to be able to acquire the logical part behind the design of mathematics but also to the frequent use of English within the Swedish Armed Forces, especially in international operations. I think this is the most modest requirement, i.e. passing grades in three high school common subjects. Of course, if the Swedish Armed Forces so wish, it is possible to look at whether to have more flexible possibilities here, but there must be some kind of basic requirement to be able to get a job within the Swedish Armed Forces. I do not think the three basic requirements are entirely unreasonable. Then action must be taken within the framework of the school to ensure that pupils reach the approved levels in, for example, these subjects. I also think that you should have a demand picture.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-220	Madam President, I would like I am, of course, in favour of what the Minister for Defence has said about the need for the school to ensure that the grades are passed; I am the first to support that. When you hire new employees for different jobs, however, you usually have as the most important factor to look at motivation and interest. Having your own motivation is hugely important in order to be able to do a good job. This must also be the case when you apply for and get a position within the Swedish Armed Forces. We have not really succeeded there because we have to resort to the system of duties. We are now entering a new type of duty system, but it is still a duty system. There is a risk that the new soldiers are not sufficiently motivated. Of course, the Recruiting Authority will do everything possible to find motivational factors in those that you test for admission – that's what you're very good at. But would it not be appropriate for those who do not have a high school subject for various reasons also to be included among possible soldiers? It doesn't have to be that they have reached three years of competence in English that makes them a capable soldier. I can't see the risk factor in this. Social democracy tends to claim that the defence of duty is part of the community. Then it should be a matter of course that you do not exclude many who may have failed because the school is not always good. Having to study a secondary school subject at a later date has prevented many from both work and study later. This could be a second chance that gives us very motivated soldiers. I wish the Minister for Defence could take these views to heart and see if there could be an opportunity to both make the soldier's profession attractive and give young people who have not really completed high school but who still have the right attitude the opportunity to start an education in order to become good soldiers. I think this would be a good project.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-225	Madam President, I would like As things stand, some 100 000 young people in an 18-year-old group will respond to an emergency response. As I understand it, 27% have replied that they are very interested and motivated to do military service. This corresponds to approximately 27 000 people. We take out 12 000 – 13 000 to be numbered, and that process is now under way. Then there are 4 000 people who are ultimately taken out – both those who are interested in this as a profession and those who are going into the conscription organisation. As I understand it, motivation is not a major problem at the moment, but there are more motivated than the number of places. That's how I got it. I do not think that approved grades in Swedish, mathematics and English are so high demands, but they are actually quite reasonable. If the Swedish Armed Forces feel that there is a problem in any sense, they may return to the Government with their views, as they are the ones who design the criteria for the requirements to receive basic education. At the moment, I do not know whether this is the central problem, given the accounting that I have now made of the number of young people from the outset, how many are to be taken out and how the expressions of interest really are. Getting people to remain in the soldier's profession is, in my opinion, about a combination of salary, housing conditions, which have actually been important in this context, and developments in the job – international operations. Then it is clear that we will eventually find ourselves in a competitive position with the civilian side. There are those who view the soldier's profession as a temporary part of life, and there may not be much to do about it. There are a number of factors that affect if you find it interesting and attractive to remain in the soldier's profession. This is a constant challenge for the Swedish Armed Forces, which I perceive they are well aware of. Looking back historically, you can see that there have been many different types of internal training opportunities within the framework of the Swedish Armed Forces to increase the level of competence for both one and the other purpose, but these are things that the agency must handle for itself. As far as basic recruitment is concerned, I can see that 100 000 forms the basis of preparedness, that about 27 %, if I have understood correctly, has said that they are very justified, that 12 000 – 13 000 are taken out for appointment and that it is about 4 000 in the end. To bring in motivated soldiers today, I think we will be able to do it. It will be interesting to see how military training beats in practice. The work to prepare for this is ongoing within the Swedish Armed Forces, and it must now be carried out in such a way that those who do military service perceive that it gives something back and that it is proportionate to their expectations. We must follow this up politically and see how it develops. It will be very interesting next year. We have the first impressions in January, but the majority are in the middle of the year.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-234	Madam President, I would like I interpret the defense minister's approach as somewhat curious and that we need to look at new systems. I'm sure when we evaluate the duty system, we'll learn a lot. As I said, it is not the old system of duty that we go back to, but a new form of duty system. Nevertheless, I think we need to look at the possibility of having a form of apprenticeship, as we can almost call it, even as a soldier. We must try in every way to equip our young people so that they reach upper secondary school qualifications. I think that many could actually feel motivated by working five years as a soldier, as they also impaled their theoretical knowledge. When I meet young people at our folk high schools, they see this as an opportunity. Many times the structure and environment of the defense give many a good chance to a fresh start. They may have been tired of school, and perhaps there have been many factors that have prevented them from succeeding as they could have done on the basis of their real opportunity. I hope that the Minister for Defence will take this on board and that we can take it as part of further development and make the soldier's profession as attractive as possible. Sweden needs that. We are not going back to the former duty system, but we are going to have a new, modern and smart defence staffing system. I believe that we both support this.
i-20a11ab6ed108f13-238	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to underline my basic view that the school has the task of ensuring that the students reach an approved level. That is where the stakes must be deployed. I still do not think it is an unreasonable requirement that you have passed grades in Swedish, mathematics and English, which I consider to be quite essential in order to be able to do this kind of tasks within the framework of the Swedish Armed Forces. As I have said, it is the responsibility of the authority to make these requirements profiles. Responsibility for how to develop your own organisation and how to look at recruitment issues in the future must lie there somewhere. Of course, the whole system that we are about to implement is intended to be adapted to our time. It is not possible to do this in the same way as in the 1960s, for example. We also start on a rather small scale. I would like to remind you that the ambition is nevertheless to try to see if there are opportunities to extend this from 4 000 and come up in a volume of 5 000 eventually. Then we'll see how to move on. But we have given an investigation mission that is about looking at what 5,000 costs and what it requires organisationally. Then we will have to come back to what this investigation leads to and then we will have to make a decision in that situation. I would like to thank you for this debate with the comments that have been made on how to make staff supply easier in various ways. I would like to stress clearly that I have not promised anything on this point, so that there will be no misunderstandings. Nevertheless, I think it is a good thing that there is a continuous discussion and that Members are involved.
