i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-0	Madam President, I would like In the autumn of 2015, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson said that there is reason to start savings on personal assistance. It was a turning point. Then something happened, because after that we can see a drastic reduction in the number of people who are entitled to personal assistance. The people in our society who have the greatest need for community support should each have the opportunity, as there was once a great unity in the Swedish Parliament, to live a life like others. We should not be limited in our lives because of what abilities we are born with or have, but we should all, each one, receive the support we need based on our needs. But when the government goes out and says that it is prepared to make savings in the area that is perhaps the most important thing to show that we are a welfare society, then it is something that is breaking down, not just for those who are affected but for all of us, because it is absolutely crucial for what society we are and want to be. For the second time, the Christian Democrats have asked us to debate this issue, because it is an acute crisis that is going on here and now, every day. My hope is that today's debate will give some new information about where we want to go in the future. Not only will we discuss the enormous crisis we have had for a few years now, but above all how to get out of it – how to not only save the face of those responsible in the short term, but how to save our own dignity in the long term.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-3	Madam President, I would like I often travel in Sweden and meet many people, many actors, government representatives and organisations. I have visited LSS homes, day-to-day activities and people who have personal assistance, for example when we were preparing for the social summit, which took place on Friday. Through these conversations and in many other ways, I know how important personal assistance is to those who have personal assistance, to all the people who have the opportunity to live an independent life. Personal assistance is crucial. Personal assistance is also extremely important for society at large. With people having personal assistance, more people can work, more can participate in the social debate, more can participate in activities, more can build society together with everyone else. The Act on Support and Service to Certain Disabled People, LSS, is an important part of Swedish welfare building. It has significantly improved the living conditions of women, men, girls and boys with extensive disabilities. When it was introduced, it meant a great positive change in people's lives with the opportunity to live, work, travel, start a family independently. The government wants the intentions behind the legislation to apply. Then I mean that the law should promote equality in living conditions and full participation in society. Individuals should have the opportunity to live like others. The right person should get the right bet. Everyone who has the right to personal assistance should receive it. At the same time, we shall combat irregularities and misuse of funds allocated precisely to people with disabilities who are entitled to personal assistance. We will ensure that the funds go to them and not to other things. The government has not taken any initiative to change the law, limit or change the right to personal assistance. On the other hand, the Supreme Administrative Court, starting in 2009, has issued a number of changing judgments. The judges have influenced the authority Försäkringskassan's assessment of the right to personal assistance. In 2009 came a judgment that interpreted the concept of basic needs, 2012 came a judgment that talked about medically motivated interventions, self-care, 2015 came a judgment about the so-called fifth basic need and in June this year came a judgment about waiting and preparedness in this context. These judgments and their interpretation and implementation have changed the right to assistance, not because the law has been amended, not because of government initiatives, but because courts have judged and authorities have interpreted the law. That is how the rule of law works, and that is how this kind of legislation works. The government – for the sake of clarity – does not rule courts, should not do so according to the Constitution, nor should it interfere in the exercise of authority. But we see rapid changes in the right to assistance, and it has a profound impact on people's lives. Protecting the rights of persons with major disabilities is the responsibility of the government. In Sweden, no one who needs support should be left. State, municipalities and county councils all have a responsibility and should pull in the same direction. Persons who are not entitled to state assistance compensation are usually entitled to support from municipalities or county councils. But I know how important personal assistance is to many people, and I know that the changes create both anxiety and real major problems in people's lives. You worry about whether you can continue working, parents worry about how they can take care of their children, husbands worry about whether they can continue living together. These are big questions. Recently, a woman, whom I met in Gothenburg, told me: The difference between having and not having personal assistance is like the difference between having a life and not having a life. That is why last week I and the government presented a package to create greater predictability in the right to personal assistance, to give municipalities better opportunities to take full responsibility for people with disabilities and also to ensure that the long-term work of the LSS investigation can continue. We propose a legislative amendment to restore the practice of waiting and preparedness, a temporary freeze of two-year reviews and a change in the law as regards increased amounts and the obligation to inform municipalities. At the same time, we all know that the law on support and service does not always work as well as it should. It does not today, and it has been aware of major problems in the past. That is why previous governments have also investigated this issue in many rounds, but not many measures have been taken. The intentions behind the legislation are good. They want to protect me and the government, but we must have long-term development work. I agree with Emma Henriksson that we need to discuss how we move forward in the future. But now we have presented a powerful package that will work in the short term while at the same time working for improvements in the long term.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-16	Madam President, I would like Melina is 17 years old and has extensive cp injury. She needs personal assistance 24 hours a day. Melina has, on average, needed about 900 hours of assistance a month. The amount of assistance hours has been so extensive because, among other things, she has periodically suffered from epilepsy attacks that have been life-threatening. Now her mother Linda is very worried about what will happen when a new review takes place. Hans is the father of a daughter with severe brain damage resulting in multi-functionality. This is something that requires many hours of care. The family has a daily life that most of us have difficulty understanding and grasping the extent of. When Hans expresses that it is enough now – that we cannot have a welfare that betrays the weakest when they need it at best – then it is not difficult to understand him and to agree with him. Mats had a job that required some assistance. When he got rid of the assistance needed to do the job, he was shut out of the important community in a workplace and from the knowledge of doing an important job. Mats became isolated and ended up in a deep depression as a result. I went from contributing to society to needing grants, he told me. He also asked me to emphasise how important and important the work line is in relation to the assistance allowance. His word is that we need a clear line of work there too. Madam President, I would like The needs of the people who need assistance are very different, and of course it is far from everyone who can work. But for those who can, the importance of the work effort itself, but not least the work community, is enormous and must not be underestimated. We all need to feel that we are needed and in demand. When we Moderates talk about the work line, this community is a parameter that we know is very important. I am very touched by these stories and by all the people who need personal assistance and how they struggle every day. They want nothing more than to live as independent a life as possible. And their relatives fight too. They want nothing more than their daughters and sons, mothers and fathers, to be able to live their lives safely and with dignity. That is why, of course, the examples I give are just a few examples of all the people involved in decisions and judgments on LSS and personal assistance. In addition to these stories, I have read countless others. I would like to thank those of you who have shared your daily life, your fighting, your anxiety, but also your joys. Madam President, I would like The Moderate line is clear. First of all, the purpose of LSS and personal assistance is for people to be able to live independent lives, and we protect that. Assistance reform is an important, sympathetic and central reform of freedom. We are proud that we carried it out together in the bourgeois government between 1991 and 1994. However, the new case law has created concerns among people with disabilities and their relatives. This concern is shared, and we understand it. The government is now promising legislative changes as a matter of urgency in terms of fair share. We will carefully analyse these legislative proposals when they are submitted to Parliament. Secondly, the judgments of the Supreme Administrative Court in recent years have caused concern. We understand that. The government's decision to freeze the two-year trials was therefore necessary. However, we believe that it is important that this be a temporary solution and that a long-term sustainable solution be found. The issue is now in the hands of the government, and we assume that work at the Ministry of Social Affairs to develop a long-term solution, which also strengthens the legitimacy of the LSS reform, is now intensifying. Thirdly, it is absolutely crucial that more people get into work and that more companies start and grow strong in order to provide long-term and sustainable conditions for secure and well-functioning personal assistance and for all other welfare in Sweden. More people in work and more strong companies strengthen the possibilities for LSS and personal assistance to be ensured in the long term. The work line also includes stories such as Mats. Having a job and contributing to the common interest of those who can do something is valuable, and we must also safeguard that. People must never disappear alone or be forgotten. Madam President, I would like I address myself to all my colleagues in this House, but of course to the government in particular, when the responsibility lies heavily there. Let us jointly ensure long-term and sustainability for those who really need it most – the people who have needs and who have the right to personal assistance.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-31	Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats think that personal assistance and the law on support and service, LSS, is a very important issue to discuss, especially in the light of recent debates and developments. I therefore thank you for the initiative for the debate, although my position is basically that there is a great deal of talk and a little workshop at the moment. As I said, the LSS reform was an important reform of freedom when it was introduced. It was also a very important reform of rights, because LSS is not a law like everyone else, but a law of rights. Against this background, as a Swedish democrat, I am concerned about recent developments, which, unfortunately, can only be seen as a dismantling of personal assistance. We hear others testify to this. We hear almost daily reports in the media about how this dismantling affects people. We can read one story after another from real life, and one is more tragic than the other. It is a matter of death as a result of the suspension of assistance. These are people with disabilities who cannot get the support they need to live a life like others and whose parents are forced to take an overwhelming responsibility. It is about that probe feeding should no longer be considered as a basic need. The list of disappointing reports can be made long. I am fully aware that it has long been understood that cost increases need to be reviewed. Already shortly after the reform was introduced, an assistance inquiry was set up to present proposals on how costs could be reduced. The proposals were rejected by the then government, which considered them too drastic and risked jeopardising the basic intentions of the assistance reform. In 2014, the government appointed a parliamentary committee, the LSS Committee, which was tasked with producing proposals for cost reduction measures. However, I believe that it is not unusual for costs to increase as ambitions increase. The ambitions have also increased over the years. It is about the introduction of a fifth basic need and the removal of an upper age limit. Thus, the LSS covers f le from the very beginning. For a family that is growing, it is not uncommon for costs to increase as well. I still think that everyone understands that the policy must act when the costs in an area increase so sharply. The difficult thing is to do so without impairing the quality of life of those who need extra support. What is different this time is that this is exactly what has happened, namely that people's quality of life has deteriorated. What do we say in a debate like this? Nothing that I say or do right now helps those who have already had their lives ruined. And nothing I say can ease the burden of all the family members who are forced to take disproportionate responsibility at the moment or allay the anxiety they have. It is a concern which I understand and which, unfortunately, is justified. I have said at some point: Step out of the sandbox and act instead of blaming each other! I stand by that. But right now it is difficult not to touch on what is causing us to be in this situation today. In 2015, the Minister of Finance announced that the increased costs of receiving refugees could be financed through savings in personal assistance, for example. This, together with the regulations to Försäkringskassan to break the trend in the number of hours within the assistance allowance, not only stopped at bad signal policy but had terrible consequences for many people. It is making it quite easy to blame a number of judgments. In fact, that is exactly what Magdalena Andersson said that has also happened indirectly. In Stockholm County Council, Region Skåne and Västra Götaland Region, the cost of care to people residing in Sweden without permission amounted to a total of SEK 167 million in 2016. My aim in this comparison is not to reverse the debate but to show that there are other decisions where we need to review the effects and look at how the costs have run. It is about money we could have spent on other budget lines, such as assistance, rather than on people who are legally not even entitled to stay here. We are therefore spending incredible sums on people who are not entitled to stay here, and at the same time this debate is about fewer people today being entitled to assistance compensation from the Social Insurance Agency – and all the assessments show that the trend continues. Fewer and fewer are granted assistance. In the government budget, the number of users with assistance compensation is estimated to decrease again next year, by 540 people. It is a priority that I find hard to understand. Something else I find hard to understand is why nobody seems to see the whole and the economic plus side. It is about parents who can work and pay taxes instead of going home. It is about people with disabilities who can get to work and to their leisure activities, study and more. In addition to the profit in the form of an incredibly improved quality of life and the opportunity to live a life like everyone else, the economic gain for society is therefore very great. All the parties here today will come up with a lot of nice words, but the question is really: how many of the parties have a plan, and how many have a thought – and, above all, how many have an initiative in their budget?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-47	Madam President, the Government, Members and listeners! He who lives with varying functional abilities has the right to the support and service necessary for him to be able to live a life like everyone else. This is what the legislator intended when the Law on Support and Service was adopted in 1993. I know that all parties in Parliament still share that interpretation of the law. Assistance is one of the forms of support specified by law. This debate is therefore about the right to assistance for those who need – and therefore also the right – such. When I thought about this debate, I thought that it could be rather boring and evasive because, as far as I understand, there are no major differences of opinion between the parties on the question of the right to assistance. The 1993 Act on Support and Service is therefore a law on rights, with the aim of enabling the individual with functional variations to have opportunities for life as others and also ensuring good living conditions. The law gained revolutionary significance for most members of the personal circles the law covers. As with all other legislation, of course, there are those who do not think it was sufficient, but for the vast majority of people who have functional variations, the reform has, of course, brought a whole new life. However, its application has changed over the years. As already mentioned, this has been done, among other things, by guiding judgments in the Supreme Administrative Court, for example in 2009, 2012, 2015 and most recently this summer, 2017. No one has been able to fail to see how the new practice of these judgments has changed how primarily the Social Insurance Agency but also the municipalities have applied the law. Step by step, practical application has been increasingly alienated from what the legislator intended with the law. Politicians, regardless of party affiliation, who work closest to this area have long seen a shift in practice emerging. For me as an environmental party, it was obviously much easier to debate these issues when we were in opposition. Now that we are part of the government base, it is not as obvious how you can act and what you can say. Those of you who participated in the work of the Alliance Government also know that it follows from government responsibility that you cannot problematise as clearly as when you are in opposition. Instead, consideration must always be given to the processing requirements and the possible forms and timetables. Statements by the representative of the government are often perceived as promises, which then turn into broken or betrayed promises when it turns out that the issue that has been debated cannot be implemented in the way that it might have been thought in advance. Here in Parliament we are only legislators; we are not those who perform. When we have a clear picture of how the Supreme Administrative Court judges are changing the application, we have seen that legislative work is required. This means that you start a device that is quite large and takes time. In the worst case, if you are in a hurry, this can lead to greater anxiety and uncertainty, and it may even be the case that a poorly thought-out change in turn can lead to further shortcomings and deterioration for users. This is where the parties differ, as far as I can see. We all want the consequences that the Supreme Administrative Court's statements have led to not to look like they are now. We want those who live with functional variations not to have deteriorations in quality of life or less opportunities to live like the rest of us. The differences of opinion are, as I understand it, about how the government and parliament can ensure that a return to the intentions that existed when the law was decided can take place as quickly and safely as possible. The opposition always believes that the government would have acted earlier, and it is a little bit the role of the opposition to do so. Representatives of those who are now in power could say that the previous government could well have begun to do so even then; it is not something entirely new, but it is a change that has been going on for a long time. The government we have now started to set up a number of investigations, which is a requirement if you are to make major changes. Legislation must be based on legal certainty and not on hearsay and rumours. The facts must be substantiated, and we have two studies that will provide evidence now in December. On this basis, the government has now said that changes are coming quite quickly, as the Minister here described earlier.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-57	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Christian Democrats for initiating this incredibly important debate. This is about some of the people in our country who are absolutely most dependent on a functioning welfare in the form of assistance – and who are now seeing their existence collapse, much because of the passivity of the left-wing government. A few weeks ago I received an email that I have been authorised to tell you about, Madam President. The sender writes: Hello! Know that you know our son's situation since your time as a pediatrician at the hospital in Gävle. I write this email to you to ask for help and advice as we have received very disturbing information from Försäkringskassan. I know this guy well. He's almost 30 years old and he's happy with life. He has been paralyzed since early years and completely dependent on a ventilator, but he is now proud– he has got his own apartment and has a job. He loves sports: Brynäs, GIF and, of course, SAIK in bandy. He has double assistance 24 hours a day by a dozen regulars plus a few subs. The father continues to write in his e-mail: We have now received letters from Försäkringskassan regarding the two-year review. The answer is: The Swedish Social Insurance Agency is considering deciding that you are no longer entitled to continued assistance compensation. This is because your need for help with respiratory care is considered to be a medical intervention and affects the right to assistance compensation. The Social Insurance Agency considers that you may need some time to arrange your support needs in other ways – yes, thank you – and we can therefore pay the assistance compensation in November, December and January if it is carried out. From February, payments will end. The father asks me what to do. What should I answer that question? That is what this debate is about – how life for this young man and many others is torn apart because of the priorities of the left-wing government. I now hear a number of social democrats and environmentalists say that this is because of courts or the Social Insurance Fund rather than taking responsibility for the very difficult situation that so many people with extensive disabilities have ended up in. Åsa Regnér was the latest in the line to say that this is related to decisions taken by courts. But it is not just a question of decisions taken by courts, it is also a question of a number of other decisions and of views expressed by the left-wing government. Magdalena Andersson said in 2015 that we must curb the development of costs within the assistance compensation. In the same autumn, the government wrote in its regulatory letter to Försäkringskassan that it would stop the development of the number of hours within the assistance allowance. In connection with the LSS investigation that was set up, it was clearly stated that it is a matter of looking at how the costs of personal assistance should stop increasing. The directive was very clear: make proposals to reduce costs. Add to this all other decisions that have also hit those who need assistance. I am thinking, for example, of the increase in employers' contributions for young people. In particular, I am thinking of the clapping hunt that the government is pursuing on assistance companies that are limited companies and therefore need to have a surplus. Two thirds of all persons eligible for assistance have today chosen a private operator. If the government and the Left are successful in getting all private companies out of welfare, all these thousands of people will be directed to choosing the municipality. We see that the government's policy has had the intended effect in reducing the number of eligible individuals. It is no longer a question of individual individuals; it is a question of a large number. In addition, as I began by saying, it is about the people who are most dependent on the support of society. I welcome the fact that the government now finally chooses to take at least one step back. According to the Government, this summer's Supreme Administrative Court ruling will now be handled. That's good, but it's not enough. The government must back down from its guidelines to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to reduce the cost of assistance. The government must also stop chipping at the assistance companies that offer high-quality assistance and at the same time account for surpluses and profit. Finally, the government must also deal with the other designated decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court in the same way, i.e. present legislative proposals re-establishing the intentions of the LSS with regard to assistance. Madam President, I would like This combination of inaction – i.e. not to make proposals in a situation where courts and authorities take decisions that we consider to be contrary to the intentions of the LSS – and a wide range of concrete decisions that strike directly at the assistance system must cease. I hope that this debate will be an important step in the government's repenting, redoing and right. These are some of the most in need.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-71	Madam President, I would like If someone during the 2014 election campaign had told me that one of the issues that we will have to fight the hardest for is the question of the LSS, I would probably just laugh. I had said that the person who claimed such a thing was out riding a bicycle. I would have said that with a red-green government, our civil rights are not something we will have to fight for. Now all those who had been affected by the policy of the previous government could breathe out. Now would be the end of the time when people's needs had to give way to economics. Not for a second would I have thought that only a few weeks into the new term of office would turn out that I was completely wrong. I would not have believed that more than ever we would have to fight for one of the biggest freedom reforms implemented by Sweden or that a red-green government would contribute to the threat of our fundamental rights. Madam President, I would like Just when I started working on this question, I went by tram to Majorna's house. Through the window I saw a man who had very extensive disabilities. Right there and then I was struck by the fact that in another time or in another country he had certainly been a prisoner in his own body, probably in a hospital or in one of all the institutions that Sweden had before we became a real democracy – before 1994. But now I was born in a country where we have carried out a reform that made him, when I saw him there on the street, stand with his two assistants and painted paintings. Together they stood there with paper and brush and captured the world that the man wanted others to see. They did what he wanted to do. It was a snapshot that filled me with a sense of pride and a tremendous sense of security. I am so sickly proud to live in a country where we have agreed together that we will jointly guarantee that Emmas's children will be able to grow up to be a free citizen if they are born with a disability. We have signed a contract that Åsa's love, if she becomes ill, should be able to work, study and take care of her family. I am filled with a sense of security when I think about the idea that you should make sure that I can still go out and dance if I have an accident. It is about a promise to each other that it is not our functionality that should be crucial if we are to be full and free citizens – a promise that, no matter what life offers us, we should feel confident that we will have our needs met and that we should have the right to live our lives. But now this promise is broken. Today, there is no contract to guarantee my freedom or your freedom. Today, none of us are safe. The major crisis we are talking about here is primarily a crisis for all those affected, but basically this crisis is a real threat to all of us. It is everyone's security and everyone's right to our lives that is at stake. Now it is no longer the image of that man who characterizes my view of our security system. Instead, it's the look of the man I met last week... who was so full of desperation that I had a hard time meeting it... as I see before me. Now it's not happiness that I feel, it's shame. A parent called me the other day, and I could barely hear what he said. He couldn't stop crying because his daughter's life had been ruined. Today, the extreme anger I feel about the unworthyness of the fact that people in my country must fight a war to live and not just exist. Today, I fear sincerely that it is not my needs or ours that will govern whether something should happen to me or to my loved ones. This fear is reinforced by the Red-Green Government. Madam President, I would like After all, I take a sigh of relief that the government has finally pulled the emergency brake. It is a partial gain for us, and for the moment it is of great importance to those who are being affected now. But this does not provide a lasting solution. With its package of measures, the government has in fact referred the matter to the next government. It's not saving the LSS. That is why we now need to cooperate across block borders. I don't love the idea of hitting me with them there, but there are times when it's the only reasonable way. This is such an opportunity, because this issue is about our fundamental human rights. It has even gone so far that we are not seeking political conflict at all. We want us to find a lasting solution – a solution that means that the law returns to what was thought when it was initiated. Once again, I would urge you to take our offer seriously. Let us sit down and draw up a new legislative proposal so that we can show once and for all that we stand together for our common and civil rights.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-91	Madam President, I would like Imse wise spider climbs up the trough and Selma's mother sings for little Selma. Then it feels a little easier. Selma will get water through a PEG catheter before she can inhale her medications. It happens before the mucus in the lungs is removed. Then Selma will be born, and then she will be given her other medicines. Selma can't walk. She can't talk or eat on her own. Selma was born with a severe brain malformation. She can't move her hands, her arms or her legs. Thanks to the LSS reform, she has received assistance in life. But Selma's assistance is to be withdrawn. The assessment is that she does not need help with basic needs. Selma is being probed, and it counts as self-care. It cuts my heart, and most others, when I read about the children affected by the government's cuts to the LSS reform. It is so merciless that you often cannot stand it when you read the stories. Madam President, I would like The Government Åsa Regnér now says that the Government intends to introduce a temporary suspension of the reductions, but that statement is completely inadequate. For example, it does not help all those who have already lost their assistance. There are newborn babies in our country who remain in hospital for months because they need 24-hour surveillance to not stop breathing. There are parents who stop working to take care of their adult children who are expected to fend for themselves during the day. There are people with extensive disabilities who now have to stay alone in their bed all the time. For those who have already had their assistance withdrawn, the Government's proposal will not mean anything at all. Madam President, I would like Åsa Regnér has appointed an LSS investigation to be completed in October 2018. I promise that if the purpose of the investigation had been to propose improvements, it would have been completed before election day. Then it will be a further year before the law is in place. This time-out is unacceptable. Those who have lost their assistance cannot wait. The government claims that the investigation will propose a modernised legislation with a holistic approach. But with the directive of the investigation, this is not possible. The government explicitly states that any improvement proposals within LSS should be funded by savings in the assistance compensation. However, the very starting point for this debate is that this compensation is too low. In addition, more savings in assistance may need to be made for fiscal reasons, says the government. The explicit objective of the investigation is not to improve LSS; it is to reduce costs. The word is mentioned 38 times in the Government's directive to the LSS investigation. The word abstinence is mentioned zero times. Madam President, I would like The timetable must be revised. We need a fast track. People shouldn't have to wait. The government must also ensure that those who have lost their assistance, but who need it, receive their assistance. It was the People's Party of Liberals who pushed forward the LSS reform in the 1990s during the then bourgeois government. The aim was to increase freedom for all people in Sweden. It is about giving people a dignified life and that everyone should have the right to participate in society. It's about independence. The right to personal assistance is the largest freedom reform that has been carried out in our country for people living with disabilities. We Liberals will defend this reform. We will not betray Selma and others in her situation. All children shall have the right to their freedom. Selma should not only survive, she should be able to live.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-102	Madam President, I would like Over the past few weeks, several of us have been able to take note of how the issue of personal assistance is being debated. We have been able to follow some of the people who are affected – the families who have their lives broken down. But the reason why we Christian Democrats have asked for this debate to be held right here today is that this is the Swedish Parliament. This is where we make law. This is where we have the opportunity to take responsibility for actually changing what has broken. What has happened over the last two years is that the law that we made in this House in broad agreement is no longer working. After two decades, a number of legal cases have come that have meant that the foundation has been completely changed and kept. We have received evidence from the Social Security Inspection and from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency that this is exactly what has happened. So we have evidence that the legal situation has changed, and that means that people are no longer safe today. There is only one thing we as legislators can do. It's taking our responsibilities and changing the law. The government's responsibility is to provide a basis for this. I very much welcome the fact that the government has finally taken the initiative to stop what would be the effect of the last verdict, which came this summer. At the same time, the government rolls out a thick carpet of fog curtains. For you do not stop what has already been a crisis of assistance for two years, but it is the two-year trials that have been stopped. Some people, who had received an advance signal from the Social Insurance Agency that their great darkness would soon come and that they will soon no longer get what has in some cases worked for decades, are now told that they can exhale, at least until October 2018. The government must assume its responsibilities and say: We will change the law to restore the situation that prevailed not only before the judgment that came this summer but also after the other judges. You can read about these judgments from our authorities and see that they are the reason why the percentage of assistance granted after having applied for the first time in two years has fallen drastically. These are the same judgments that have led a proportion to receive fewer hours or perhaps completely without its assistance reimbursement after the two-year review. These people will be without assistance compensation until we change the law. To stop the two-year trials is to make an effort that can be likened to inserting a ventilator. LSS will survive until election day. But if we do not have a new law to take a stand on and get in place that restores the intention, it is the same thing as the removal of the temporary stop also removes the respirator. We have to face up to our responsibilities. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: can the government here and now promise not only to have a temporary stop but also to use this time to produce a new bill that we can stick through in this House and restore and restore what was the intention of the legislation? I also have a question for the Green Party, which is also responsible in the government. If you see what Jan Lindholm highlighted in the debate, that no one has been able to escape the fact that the legislation has alienated itself from what was intended, are you prepared to continue to sit in the government without demanding that the basis for legislative changes be drawn up? It is not enough just to investigate, but if we are to be able to change the law here in Parliament, we must have a basis for amending the law. This is promised in relation to the summer judgment, but it is not yet promised for the judgments that have meant that the proportion of persons entitled to assistance has fallen by more than 1 000 people. We have the evidence from the authorities. We must now also act on this.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-112	Madam President, I would like I would like to start with a quote: a few examples of fraud, irregularities and over-use of assistance payments have also emerged in the autumn of 2010. Preliminary assessments by police authorities and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency indicate that the economic scope may be significant. ..................................................... Another quote is: a rise in the appropriation for state assistance payments from around SEK 4 billion when the reform was introduced in 1994 to SEK 21 billion in 2012. According to the investigation, cheating and abuse account for significant amounts, even low. ..................................................... This was said by my predecessor, Christian Democrat Maria Larsson, who was responsible for these issues in the previous government. The former government, in which the Christian Democrats and other alliance parties were involved, was therefore very aware of the evolution of costs and wanted to gain control over it. There was a particular interest in discussing irregularities in payments. You're pretending now that you didn't say that. You are now pretending that it was not a problem and that it is not a problem. You say one thing in government but another in opposition. The government has taken a number of measures on the issue of personal assistance. One of them is that we are looking over companies and private organisers in this market to get further in separating serious organisers from rogues and being more skilled at dealing with irregularities in payments. I am very concerned that legislators are suggesting or almost directly saying that courts in Sweden are governed by the government. There are, I think, very strange conclusions on this issue. Courts are not governed by the government. Courts are not governed by a regulatory letter which, moreover, is not the relevant regulatory letter. You know that, too. You pretend you don't understand what this system looks like. This is a right law. When you don't know what's going on, you go to court, and the court will tell you what's going to apply. We've set up a long-term LSS investigation. We have also asked for reviews of these judgments, and these reviews will come in December. You never did this. Judgments came in your time as well. You didn't do anything about it. There is an announcement from my party that you did nothing about. These judges are linked, and you know that, because you know this reform. I'm getting evidence in December about the verdicts you've been talking about here. I'll look at them and see what we can do. I want to protect the intentions of the law on support and service and personal assistance. But I also want to take responsibility for the whole and for the irregularities in payments that exist, which you knew existed during your time and which you also discussed.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-119	Madam President, I would like Safeguarding this reform of freedom is something we moderates do. We also led the government that introduced it in Sweden in the early 1990s. We now want to continue to protect it and ensure that resources go to the very people who need them. All cheating on subsidies and taxes is deeply problematic. It is outrageous and something we are spending resources on combating. Both within LSS and in other welfare systems, there is a need for sharper follow-up and sharper supervision. We set aside increased resources for this in our budget. All undiscovered cheating is lost tax crowns. It is simply resources that could have been used to develop the welfare of all who need assistance, care and care. For me, it is directly offensive that less well-calculated people are taking care of other people's legitimate need for support and help. This can't be allowed to continue. The resources should go to those who are entitled to community support. Those with personal assistance should receive the help they need and are entitled to. Nothing else is good enough. At the same time, support should be long-term, sustainable and secure. Economically balanced responsibility is also necessary. Our posture is clear. These valuable resources should go to the people in need of them, not to people who are not. Madam President, I would like We also have a problem with people falling between chairs when it comes to principals. The shared headship is causing a great deal of concern in itself, and we need to deal with that. It should not be the case in a welfare state like Sweden that people should have to feel worried about being shoveled between different principals or that assessments should look radically different depending on where they live and where they are. We Moderates would like to see this made clearer and believe that we basically need to take a firmer approach to the issue of headship. Madam President, I would like It is crucial to strive for long-term sustainability in the area of assistance reform. It's about security. Around issues and decisions related to LSS and personal assistance, we need common solutions, holistic approaches and balanced balances aimed at the long-term, transparency, sustainability and hence security for the individual in need of personal assistance. This also applies in order to provide greater security and predictability for all relatives, all of the providers of assistance, as my colleague Anders so well described, as well as the responsible principals – state and municipality. Once again, I address my colleagues in this House: let us jointly ensure that this long-term and sustainability for those who really need it – those with needs and the right to assistance!
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-126	Madam President, I would like It went so far that the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights criticised the Swedish Government for the planned savings in LSS and assistance payments. They wanted the savings directives to be reconsidered. The government argues that it wants to protect LSS and assistance compensation and that it should guarantee people with disabilities the support they need. In fact, there are around 1,200 fewer people who have assistance today compared to when the government took office. In the last year alone, the number has fallen by almost two people per day. What would it really mean if we were to cut back on LSS and assistance, in addition to, of course, reduced quality of life? I thought, Madam President, that I would return a little to the question of seeing the whole picture and the benefits of society. As I understand it, about 90% of assistance payments go to salaries, and that should be a very high proportion compared to schools or health centres, for example, where much of the costs go to local rent and equipment. I also read somewhere, Madam President, that just over two thirds go directly back to the public sector in the form of income taxes, social security contributions and VAT on increased consumption, and that a small proportion of it is of course also paid in the form of corporate taxes. There is probably no other item of general government expenditure where the flow of money to the state and the municipality is the same. A very large proportion of users can work and pay taxes thanks to their personal assistants. As I was on before, another great plus item is tax revenue from all the relatives whose time is then instead released for wage labour. An interesting question to raise is also how many of the 80 000 personal assistants would be unemployed without the LSS. My question to the Government is: have you analysed what your savings could ultimately cost? It is good and welcome that the government chooses to introduce a temporary stop for the two-year review. It is also a good thing that the government now finally chooses, under massive pressure, to quickly examine a new bill. However, the Swedish democrats would like to see the previous judgments also taken into account and that they were also subject to the rapid investigation. It is frustrating and heartbreaking to take part in media reporting on this issue. It is not often we see headlines that one or both parents are forced to stop working to take care of children without compensation. The economy is broken, the siblings are hurt, the family is hurt and the parents are broken. In my Facebook feed I got up the other day a post about how a mother described that she was no longer able to take sole responsibility and for a while actually thought about ending her life. She took a bottle of pills, got in the car and thought about what to do, but fortunately she reconsidered. We all have a responsibility here for people not to feel as powerless as this woman. In Sweden 2017, our safety net will work. It is the hard work of previous generations and paid taxes that were intended to do so. We cannot throw away the hard work of all previous generations. Nor can we fail those in need of help. If rapid action is required, that is what both I and the Swedish people expect. I would like to say to the Government: act, and act vigorously!
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-138	Madam President, I would like First of all, I should like to express my regret at the fact that the wording is repeated several times here from the speaker's seat. Unfortunately, citizens may think that there is some truth to it. No decision has been taken on the withdrawal of assistance from the government. Then I was very happy when the representative of the Moderates brought up that the money in the area should go to those who are entitled to it and not to those who cheat. That's a new signal. The Government has repeatedly highlighted the issue throughout the period, and she mentioned it just now in her last speech, that there is knowledge of shortcomings. I have read studies showing that these are very large amounts paid to people who should not actually have these assistance payments. I think it was refreshing that it came from that side. That is one of the issues we need to address. If we are to defend legislation, citizens must think it is okay. Every time a major article is opened up in the media, if any person who has made an improper use of public funds reduces the legitimacy of that legislation. That is why this work is so extremely important. There is absolutely no difference between the Moderates and the government in how high we prioritise it. I hope that the other bourgeois parties can also agree that this is a very important issue in order to save the legislation. This is about a lot of money in individual cases. I will not mention any examples, as the rest of you have done. I think you know them all. I very much agree with what Emma Henriksson said in her speech. That is why – if I am going to answer the question – I would rather support this government than a government with the alliance parties. This government has done exactly what Emma Henriksson is asking for. You had knowledge that the LSS had gradually been eroded and that it was becoming increasingly difficult for them has these needs to get the support and help to which they are entitled, and you did nothing about it. We have done things to change the legislation, but it takes time. There is a risk in such an area. What is the valuation period in which we live? In different epochs of our lives, solidarity dominates and is important, and then it becomes less important. Now we are living in a very egotistical age. It is very difficult to legislate in this area now, because it must be heard by a broad public. We have started the work in a serious way. We will have two final reports now in December on the basis of which the government will come forward with proposals that will hopefully be able to provide some measures early next year that will reduce the problems. Then I hope for more when the major investigation comes. Unfortunately, it was not judged to be able to take place so quickly that it was able to become a policy during this term of office, but rather during the next term of office. It is only to be hoped that there will then be a government that is truly prepared to take responsibility for those people who need support and service in order to be able to live like everyone else.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-148	Madam President, I would like I am a little saddened when I hear the representatives of the Green Party and the Social Democrats in the debate. I know that there are now very many people sitting at home listening from the point of view of getting an answer to the question: what is the answer to be given to all these people who have now had fewer hours or have received assistance completely withdrawn? We have here Jan Lindholm from the Green Party who goes up in the speaker's chair and says: There have been no cuts in assistance. All those who want to call that card, please read Försäkringskassan's forecasts. Almost 3 billion less than budgeted space is estimated. There has been a substantial reduction in funds for assistance payments. It's not a coincidence. It is the result of decisions taken by the government of the Green Party and the Social Democrats. Clear directives have been given to Försäkringskassan and an investigation has been set up. One of the heaviest ministers, the Minister for Finance, has been out saying: this is where the cost of assistance must be reduced. It is clear that the authorities are acting on the basis of what the government says. The numbers are there in black and white. I am equally distressed when I hear Minister Åsa come up to the pulpit and say that the Alliance government in its time raised the issue of cheating and fraud and that nothing happened with assistance. That discussion has nothing to do with this. We all agree that we should do everything we can to prosecute fraud and keep cheating away. It was a work that the Alliance government started during its time. It got a lot of criticism from the left side. Now I think that's something everyone agrees to do. It has nothing to do with the situation that all these people with severe disabilities are now experiencing when they have their lives damaged and assistance hours withdrawn. I told him about the kid with the ventilator at home who was told that the assistance would disappear completely. That is what the discussion is about. Madam President, I would like I am in despair when I hear that the government is constantly backing away and constantly trying to lay smoke curtains. There are two parties that have the opportunity to do something about the difficult situation these people are now in. It's the Green Party and the Social Democrats. There are two things that those parties have to do. One is to back away from the decisions that have been made. It has issued directives for the investigation and written regulatory letters. However, there is also a pat on the private companies that perform high-quality assistance. The second is that it is a government's responsibility when courts – in this case the Supreme Administrative Court – take decisions that are considered politically inconsistent with the legislator's intentions. Then it is the Government's task to produce legislative proposals that can then be decided by the Riksdag. It is fascinating to hear the consensus of all parties here that we must do something. There are two parties in this House who have the opportunity to push the button, take decisions and put forward legislative proposals that change the miserablely difficult situation that so many people with severe and severe needs have ended up in because of negative decisions taken by the government of the Green Party and the Social Democrats. Furthermore, it is not fulfilling its mandate to look at the judgments that have been taken and to propose legislative changes that will give us a new application of law in this area.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-159	Madam President, I would like I said in my first post that we are not seeking conflict, which is absolutely true. On the other hand, we all very much demand responsibility. The brutal political game that has taken place for us over the last ten years is not only a question of what society we want, but also a question of democracy. In the past few years, politics has stood still and watched as they have fallen on the assessment of assistance and slowly but surely eroded the reform. Today we have a situation in which case law has meant that you no longer receive assistance if you can bring the food to your mouth, where the feeding of the probe is not seen as a basic need and it is now just active need for help that counts. Two governments of different colours have completely coolly failed to act. For almost ten years we have been calling for a change to the law, but nothing has happened. The result is that more than 80% of those seeking assistance today are rejected. But no one is responsible. No one can be held accountable. It is almost farcelike to see fingers pointed in different directions so that no one will have to take the blame for the fact that one of today's greatest freedom reforms has been beaten to pieces. You just follow the case law. The truth is, however, that the government has acted forcefully. We have seen a new regulation letter, in which the needs and the economy are not to govern, a LSS investigation that focuses on costs and requires savings on assistance and a debate on cheating that has brought a dirty shadow over what the government wants to hide: that it wants to save money on people's rights and needs. It is a series of decisions that are taken by the government without passing through the Riksdag – completely without the Swedish Democratic Assembly having been able to say its part. However, the government seems to have completely forgotten that there is a decision that we have made in the Swedish parliament: We shall have a law that gives people the right to live their lives with self-determination and the right to participate in society. We're going to have a law where people's needs will govern. This is a democratic decision that is now not respected because no legislative change has taken place. Madam President, I would like It is people's lives that we are debating here today. These are not figures, not sore cases and certainly not weak groups. It is people of flesh and blood who are affected in an almost incomprehensible way by an inhumane policy. To pull the emergency brake in this position is good, but we require more than that. We demand that the government respect the decision taken when the LSS reform was introduced: that the government assume its responsibilities. Then the government must immediately change the law after all the judgments that have eroded the legislation, and not just the latest. This requires the government to ensure that all those who have been affected by no government having acted have their needs met. It requires the government to fulfil its words about protecting the LSS with actual action. Then the regulation letter cannot contain any wording about reduced hours, and the long-awaited LSS investigation cannot have such a one-sided cost focus. Only then can we seriously talk about protecting the LSS.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-167	Madam President, I would like During the opening of the debate, several of us have given examples of children who are now being withdrawn. They are children who need probe mating and children who cannot breathe on their own. We have talked about how they have been helped and suddenly no longer receive this help. Then the Minister for Social Affairs will reply by saying: But we must fight against cheating! Seriously, the kids we've been telling you about don't cheat. Cheating must be combated; that is quite right. If someone cheats with these systems or with other social security systems, society should show no mercy to the cheaters. Those who cheat should be put to good use. But don't punish everyone who needs help for cheating! I get worried when I hear Åsa Regnér. It sounds like the government thinks they're doing enough for those who live with a disability. It sounds as if everything is at peace and joy when we now introduce a moratorium on further cuts and allow the investigations, which have directives to save even more, to run on. That's not good enough. The government's moratorium only temporarily puts an end to the cuts right now. This should, of course, have been introduced a long time ago. It is a good thing that it is being done now, but it does not help those who have already had their assistance withdrawn. We are talking about more than 1 000 people who have had their assistance withdrawn and reduced. I listen and listen, but I don't hear that Åsa Regnér has any answers to them. It is unacceptable that there are children who are forced to stay in hospital for long periods of time because they do not get the help they need to be with their family instead, as they were given before. It is unacceptable for parents to have to resign from work in order for society to withdraw help for children so that parents have to be at home and take care of their disabled children. It is unacceptable that people with extensive disabilities should now lie alone in a bed 24 hours a day when they were previously helped. Madam President, I would like The Government will set up investigations that will be completed in autumn 2018, after the election day, of course because it wants to avoid the debate in the election movement. It also proposes legislative changes that will enter into force in 2019. It's way too slow. Should these newborns have to stay in hospital for several years before they can come home because the government wants to avoid a debate in the electoral movement? Those who have lost their assistance cannot wait for this red-green government. The LSS investigation that would present its proposals in October 2018 must be brought forward, and it is quite possible to do so. In addition, the directives need to be amended. The main directive is to achieve additional savings, Åsa Regnér. Can you stand in this speaker's seat and say in all seriousness that it will lead to improvements for the disabled when the main argument and the main directive in the investigation are further cuts? Madam President, I would like I hear the Swedish Prime Minister say that the Swedish model should be developed and not phased out. But it's just empty words. A society's well-being and development are measured primarily by how we take care of the most vulnerable. That is what a welfare society is ultimately about. The attitude of the government must change from inhuman to human.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-175	Madam President, I would like I am very concerned when I hear how the debate is developing, because it seems that not everyone understands what is going on right here and now. As a Christian Democrat, I am not ashamed at all that we are highlighting what is also a problem – that there has been cheating. There have been cheatings involving the agency, and there have been cheatings among criminal actors who are trying to shoe themselves in this area. It is worrying, just as cheating and the crime that has been going on against other public activities in which we manage taxpayers' money are worrying. This applies to the Swedish Transport Agency up in Norrland, where you charge for white lines that are never painted. It's about dogs that suddenly cost a quarter of a million. But we do not stop seeing the need for dogs in the defense. We do not stop having ambitions in terms of road safety in Norrland because there is cheating. Let's go to the cheating. We will do so here too, and that was the ambition of the previous government. However, something has happened in this area in the last two years. Look at the curves! Look at the development of the number of persons entitled to assistance! For each year, the number of aid beneficiaries has increased from the introduction of the reform until November 2015. In November 2015, the number started to decrease, and then it is a decrease that according to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's own analysis in the latest budget forecast is accelerating, especially in recent months. Several regular reports, including Rejections to assistance compensation, have been made – how can we understand the recent increase? , made the analysis of what it is that causes so many to be rejected. What is it that means that so many people who are looking for the first time will never get into the reform? There are above all two judgments that are highlighted – one from 2012 and one from 2015. You can ask the question, why didn't you do something? You were in government in 2012! It is only that this judgment did not apply in the way it is applied until spring 2016. This can also be read in Försäkringskassan's analysis. We have got the factual basis – we in here as legislators. We have the evidence to show that this is a changed application of law that needs new legislation to change the conditions for people to get the support that we once agreed they would get. It's just a change of law. To talk about cheating in this context is to create uncertainty among those who believe that this is an area that only explodes in costs and that we do not know where the money goes. But what happens now does not mean a penny in savings for taxpayers, but a transfer of costs from the state to municipalities, county councils and individuals. There are indications that it may even be more expensive. The fact that a child is not allowed to come home and be with his parents with support, but instead remains in hospital in an intensive care facility does not mean saving the taxpayer. It is not helping and supporting, even if parents are informed that they can get that help and support. Transfer information does not help when you get a completely different support from what you need. And it certainly does not help the child who would need that place in the hospital. There are so much increased costs in this. Government: What is your solution?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-183	Madam President, I would like I think Emma Henriksson is right in a lot of what she says. She also said from the beginning that she wanted a debate on the future. Where do we want to go? We have taken the initiative to freeze the two-year trial for people who have personal assistance simply because the situation is difficult and unpredictable – just the opposite of what we want to be in the welfare society that I and the government stand for. We are also reviewing the judgments that have been widely discussed here in the debate. We'll get those files in December. We ordered them already a year ago. Unlike the previous government, we have asked for such analyses. All these judges are based on each other. Emma Henriksson and others know that. The quote I produced came from the person who was responsible for this in the previous government, Jan Björklund. It was you who talked about cheating, savings and costs, but now you're pretending it never happened. That was my point, and I think it went forward. Emma Henriksson said we should talk about the future. I agree. Among other things, we have set up the LSS investigation. It's not the first. There are many who have reviewed this law because its intentions are very good, and we share them, but there are also shortcomings in the legislation. Unfortunately, we are seeing their effects now, and they should not affect people in the way they do. This investigation looks at the following: Is double principals appropriate? What is equality when it comes to personal assistance? We know it's twisted. The investigation also looks at the role of families and, above all, looks at the role of children, which so many have mentioned here, in terms of the law on support and service and personal assistance. The investigation also looks at all the efforts contained in this legislation, and it looks at how society has changed during the 20 years of the law. I think this is urgent, and I would like to have a discussion about how we move forward with this in the future.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-190	Madam President, I would like We have now soon completed this debate on one of the most important reforms of freedom in order to live an independent life, no matter what your needs are, and what the conditions are. It is a reform of freedom that we, as the Moderates, really want to protect. I would like to start by saying that cheating is something that no one in the Alliance thinks is extremely important to take a strong stand against. But it is also important to keep it separate from what is the focus, namely that the people who really need the assistance should be able to take part of it. The current unrest, which has increased in recent times, must be dispelled. It is unreasonable that the people who most need the support of society should be concerned not to have it. Melina, His daughter and Mats must have clear answers and a life where their needs are at the centre and where they get help with what they need help with. Therefore, the responsibility now falls heavily on the government to carry out its work in the Ministry of Social Affairs as a matter of urgency. But we also need long-term sustainable solutions for those who absolutely need it. Therefore, it is also important that the investigation that is now working does so long-term and that it is a good decision that can be made after this. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for all the good contributions we have made here in the debate and once again to appeal: let us now make sure that those who need our support best also get it well.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-195	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking you for the debate and thanking the Government for the fact that, at an appointed time, she is actually participating and answering questions. These are important issues that are discussed here in the debate, but it is even more important, as I have said before, that we are actually also acting. Now, in the space of a year, we have had two topical debates, hearings and lots of authorities that have been called to committee over and over again. It is just like someone said here that we have a good basis, so now is the time to move from words to action. As I have said in the past, it is good that the government now finally chooses, under pressure from various quarters, to act – at least on certain issues. Åsa Regnér says in her speech that these judgments have affected people's lives. Nevertheless, as far as I can see, it is only the last judgment that is subject to the rapid investigation, that is to say, one of them. Why not seize the opportunity to restore the intentions of the law? People are suffering as nothing is done, and now something really needs to happen so that the original intentions of the reform can be maintained. We all need to work together, regardless of party colour, across borders, so that we can move forward and give these people a quality of life worthy of the name. The government really needs to get to grips with this now. Otherwise, there is every reason for the Swedish people to choose a new government in the 2018 elections, which, in my opinion, there is in any case.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-200	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would just like to express my regret at the method of debate used by Anders W. Jonsson, which consists of rewording the counter-debater's statement so that it becomes a lie. I didn't say there were no cuts in the LSS. I told you the government didn't make any such decisions. I think we should refrain from using this kind of combat technique. It destroys the conditions for democratic discussion. Both Anders from the Center and Emma from KD have asked for the government to act. If I am going to use Anders W Jonsson's wording, I can say that we have pressed the button – even several times. You imposed a budget on us almost completely without investigative resources for the first year, so it took a while for this government to get started with investigations. That's why we're behind. We could have done this more quickly if we had had our own budget already in the first year of this parliamentary term. It is sad, but it is the political game that makes it difficult for the government that sits if you can. We live in a democracy that has principles of separation of powers. Most democracies have that, as far as I know. We do not allow ministerial rule. We make laws, and when the laws don't work, a lot of people have pointed it out in relation to this law, and we've known it for a long time, you get started. This government has pushed the button. There will be changes in the short term and in the long term, which will make the intentions that existed in the early 1990s, when this law was adopted in 1993, hopefully be restored in practice. But in the course of the journey, it is courts that evaluate and authorities that are independent. They make their decisions, and we as politicians cannot go in and poke at them. You know that, but in this debate you are trying to get the listeners, the audience, the citizens to believe that this can be done. But you can't. We have a democracy to stick to.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-205	Madam President, I would like There are many people who have contacted me about these very questions in recent years. In recent weeks, I have referred to this debate and said: Listen to the debate in Parliament! There are two parties that have the opportunity to change the chaotic situation that very many people with very great needs find themselves in. These are the two government parties: the Green Party and the Social Democrats. They have now put an end to the two-year trials and said that you should deal with the judgment of this summer. But they have done nothing beyond that. And it is of no help to all those who, in the past year, have suffered cuts in the number of hours or, in the worst case, been completely unassisted. For them, this is no consolation at all. Jan Lindholm says that there have been no reductions. In 2017, it is 23 124 000 000 SEK, which is 2.8 billion less than the estimated. And so it is said that there have been no reductions. And this has not been due to the instructions the government has made but, of course, to something completely different. It is clear that judgments taken by a court are valid until the Riksdag amends the law. And the Riksdag can do so as soon as the Government delivers proposals for legislative changes. It is we in this House who have the opportunity to change the miserable situation in which many of these people find themselves. But it requires the government to stop being passive. The government must take the initiative. I hope that this debate will be the drop that eventually erodes the stone and causes the Green Party and the Social Democrats to act. It's necessary.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-210	Madam President, I would like Last but not least – at the press conference Åsa Regnér said that the legitimacy of assistance compensation is threatened. It is difficult to say what the Minister meant by that. But it is rather the credibility of the government on these issues that is under threat, for real. Although the government has now pulled the emergency brake, the situation is, to say the least, acute. At this point, the quick and lasting solutions that are needed are not to postpone the issue to the future. For us in the Left Party, the LSS is a question of our rights to be citizens of a democracy and of the inviolable access to our own lives. It is a matter of the right to live like others, no matter what life has to offer. There is still time for the government to show that the same applies to the government and that it is prepared to do what is necessary to live up to it. But there is also time to show the opposite, with a very high bill as a consequence. No matter which path the government chooses, one thing is certain: We will pursue with full force until the day LSS is truly secured. Thank you for a wonderful debate!
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-215	Madam President, I would like When you listen to the contributions from the three red-green parties, a strange picture emerges. The Government's two representatives, the Government and Jan Lindholm, say that there are no major problems really, but if there are problems it depends on the courts. It's not the government, it's the courts. Then the Left Party says that it has spent all the time since the turn of the government in 2014 fighting the government and defending the LSS reform. Why do we need to defend it in dialogue with the government if there are no major problems? Everyone knows that smoke curtains are being laid out. The government has taken active decisions to make reductions in the LSS reform. There are judgments from before as well. And if you're going to change them, you have to change the law. But the government has given instructions to the Social Insurance Agency to make cuts. And, of course, the authorities comply with directives. They have. Then the government has said that an investigation is being set up in order for this to be resolved in the long term. But the main directive of the investigation is about savings, not improvements. How can children who are now getting rid of their assistance be better off if they make further cuts? Madam President, I would like LSS is the largest freedom reform ever for disabled people in Sweden. We Liberals will defend it. I would like to thank the Christian Democrats for the initiative for the debate and the other co-debaters for a good debate.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-220	Madam President, I would like This particular debate is almost over. But the Government has two more minutes to speak. I hope that we will then be able to get a proper answer to what the government intends to do. We have evidence to show that it is a change of law that has led to this assistance crisis. It's a crisis that's accelerating and getting worse. It's getting worse. Now it is unlikely that it will be very clear because of stopping two-year trials. Inflows are likely to remain as low as the judges are still affecting it. The major problem, then, is not the decision taken by the government. The big problem is the decisions the government has not taken. I would also like to know if the government is prepared to change the directives for the investigation. To make it clear to everyone what the government has actually said the investigation is going to do, I'm going to read inside. This is stated in the summary of the investigation directives: a strengthened quality, accuracy, holistic approach and diversity of the support measures covered by the LSS are to be financed with savings in the assistance reimbursement. Further down, it goes on to say that, in view of significant increases in the cost of assistance payments, additional savings are also needed. ..................................................... Are these the savings proposals that the government is waiting for – the freezing of two-year trials waiting for things to get even worse? The government can take responsibility by amending the investigation directives and by amending the law. That is what the Christian Democrats want. I hope that we are now told that the government intends to do so.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-226	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Christian Democrats and everyone else who has participated in the debate. Camilla Waltersson Grönvall summed up quite well what we had to do. We need to work in the short term and in the long term. In the short term, we have to take responsibility for people who have been caught and whose lives are very unpredictable and difficult because, in a way that you would not have expected, you have either not received or have lost personal assistance. The government has therefore put forward a proposal for the restoration of a judgment and the freezing of two-year review procedures for persons with personal assistance. In December, we are also receiving a review of judgments to see what more needs to be done. It's in the short term. At the same time, we need to discuss what is to happen on these issues in the long term. Among other things, the funds contained in this reform should go to the very people who are entitled to them. We know it's not always like that. We need to make sure they do. With regard to the credibility and legitimacy of the reform, we cannot have a situation where, on the one hand, users believe that they should not get what they think they are entitled to, and many times they are entitled to. On the other hand, taxpayers think that no one cares if the money goes to reform or not. It can go to anything, and nobody does anything. We need to be able to do two things at once. But everything we do is for the benefit of people who have the right to personal assistance. I'm going to keep working hard for that.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-245	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me first of all what conclusions I draw from the decision taken by ENVI on the EU renewable energy rules (RED II) on 23 October; secondly, what my strategy and the government's strategy look like to ensure that the EU's renewable energy rules will not ruin Sweden's ambitious plans to increase the use of biofuels, phase out fossil fuels and reduce climate emissions; and thirdly, how I and the government are working to disseminate knowledge within the EU that active and responsible forestry is an important tool in the fight against climate change. The background to these questions is that the European Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, ENVI, in its consideration of the Commission's proposal for a new directive on renewable energy, has now presented some criticisms. First of all, I would like to welcome the attention paid to this issue. Bioenergy is by far our largest renewable energy source, 80% of which comes from forestry and forest industry by-products. In parts of Europe there are concerns that have left a clear mark in ENVI's proposal. One example is their definition of advanced biofuels, i.e. a definition that excludes a number of raw materials because they are not convinced of the benefits of using them in fuel production. These are raw materials such as crude pine oil and multiannual energy crops. I see it as my task and that of the government to do everything we can to dispel these concerns by, among other things, explaining our long and broad experience of sustainable forestry but also of being a forerunner in the transformation of the energy system. One example is our district heating system. Another is our production of world-class conventional and advanced biofuels. We are working strategically on this with the Commission, in the Council of Ministers and in our contacts with the European Parliament. Finally, I would like to emphasise that this is a committee proposal and that the last word is not said in the European Parliament. Before the final directive can be adopted, we also have a negotiation between the Council and Parliament. There is therefore still a good chance of influencing the final regulatory framework.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-250	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Let me start with a background to my question. I would like to focus on Sweden's ambitious climate goals, which I personally have been involved in negotiating in the Parliamentary Environment Goals Committee. It was with great pride that the Swedish delegation participated at the climate summit in Bonn and was able to go there with the world's most ambitious climate goals in the back, which we have managed to agree on in the Swedish parliament across party and block borders. One of the targets is specifically about the transformation of the transport sector, namely that Sweden will reduce emissions by as much as 70% by 2030 compared to 2010. That, Madam President, is an ambitious objective. But that is an objective that we considered possible in the preparation. However, it is only possible if it is possible to use the many different tools and tools we see before us in the form of rapid electrification of the vehicle fleet, increased cycling and travel by public transport. An important part is the phasing-out of fossil fuels and thus the phasing-in of biofuels. A Swedish car rolls an average of 17 years on Swedish roads. If we are to reach the 2030 target, we must not be content with simply replacing cars in new car sales, but we must get other fuels that can be refuelled in the cars that already exist. Forests have enormous potential, Madam President, to contribute to the new biofuels. Unfortunately, we see that there will be initiatives and proposals at EU level that risk severely hampering those opportunities and putting aside the conditions for Sweden to really take the lead and show the world and the rest of the EU that it is possible to change quickly. Madam President, I would like Let us look at the proposal voted on in the EU Environment Committee a little more concretely. Among other things, the committee wants to set a ceiling for the first generation of biofuels, i.e. those that are crop-based, such as rapeseed or wheat, from which we today produce RME or ethanol. A maximum of 7 per cent will be set there, including the Swedish climate targets, and they will be phased out completely by 2030. This is a partly old issue that the Minister has debated many times in this House. I leave that question a little side by side, and instead I focus on the second part which deals with the advanced biofuels. It is second generation biofuels, such as pine oil diesel produced by the company Preem in Sweden. In this context, the committee wants to limit the possibility of using residues from forestry and the forest industry in order to obtain the raw materials. Now I became both hopeful and a little pessimistic when I took note of the Minister's reply. On the one hand, the Minister is clear that he and the government will do everything to try to spread knowledge and dispel the concerns that exist in Europe about biofuels. On the other hand, Madam President, I feel that the Minister is playing down the risks of the proposal, saying, for example, that there has been some criticism of the proposal. If you listen to Swedish actors, it is not some criticism, it is a sharp and harsh criticism. For example, we can listen to what Mr Svebio's expert said, namely that the proposal denies agriculture's ability to contribute to climate change. The 2030 ‐ Secretariat said it was a devastating blow to the development of biofuels. I would ask the Minister to be a little more specific. What is the Swedish strategy like? That's what I asked you. It is said that it is working strategically, but what is the strategy to really remove the serious obstacles that the proposal might pose?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-258	Madam President, I would like In Sweden, we are in complete agreement. It depends on our good experience. It is also due to the little-known fact that bioenergy, both biofuels and biomass, is our largest energy source. This has been the case for a long time, and we now have experience that it is possible to do it in a sustainable way because there are strict requirements for the forestry that delivers the vast majority of the products. Just look out over Europe. It was one of the first things I did as a new Minister of Energy. It is mainly Sweden and Finland that use and have the best experience in bioenergy. In many other countries there is a completely different debate and discussion. This, of course, does not happen in any kind of vacuum. We must also be aware that there is competition here. There are many other uses for the products, and there is a struggle going on. Add to this that the fossil industry may not always welcome the increased use of biofuels, not least because it is renewable. One must not be naive in this context. Yes! The industry, environmental organisations, government and parliament, we all agree. We also agree with our Finnish comrades. We have carried out strategic work mainly on the various European institutions – the Council, the Commission, Parliament. But that does not mean that there is no resistance. I was as late as May and met a large number of MEPs who I knew in advance are sceptical about the use of biofuels. When describing what we do and what demands we make, we often hear: Yes, yes, but what is imported from other countries? So another discussion is underway. Of course we must be able to face those questions. We have worked on the Commission by explaining exactly what we are doing, what ambitions and objectives we have, and that the work can be done in a sustainable way. We have also invited them here and showed them on site. I have personally gone around with both the Energy Commissioner Miguel Arias Cañete and the Commission's Vice-President Maroš Šefčovič and demonstrated what we are doing in Värtaverket – in this case together with Fortum, who owns the work – to show concretely how we work at all stages to ensure that what we do is sustainable. I have done so in talks with other countries that we know in advance are somewhat sceptical. Only in recent weeks have I discussed this with both the French Government and the German Government, and I think that both the Council and the Commission are increasingly understanding. However, there are still parts of the European Parliament which are sceptical and which often refer to the destruction of rainforests and to how crops have been grown for energy purposes and thus pushed away from food production. Such examples also exist. But the important thing for us is to be able to show that, yes, there are bad ways to do that, but what we want to do is absolutely sustainable. We must continue to do that work, and we do so on a broad scale. I am also engaged in a close dialogue with the industry and with the forest industry to reverse developments in the long term. We have done this type of fire brigade suppression both under previous governments and under this government, but in order for us to be able to have sustainable development for bioenergy and biomass, we need to succeed in reversing development. If we are to do this, it is not enough to make an individual contribution, but now we must continue to work. Of course, I welcome the Riksdag and the Moderates in this work.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-266	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I very much share the Minister's view that it is important that we work long-term with the dissemination of knowledge about Swedish forestry, how sustainable it is and what a fantastic opportunity it has to contribute to the solution to the climate challenge and the transformation that we want to see and that must be done away from the fossil to the bio-based. The fact is that we in Sweden are less affected than the growth in the forest. Since the beginning of this century, we have multiplied the Swedish timber supply. We are an example – with private forest ownership and ownership basically, we have managed to build a sustainable use that delivers jobs, growth and now also very sustainable products. Unfortunately, I can only say that it is not always that all the Minister's colleagues speak well of the Swedish forest in an equally commendable way. I sometimes get concerned when I listen not least to the Minister for the Environment and hear how she expresses herself about forestry. A small tip for the Government here is to also talk to the party colleagues in the European Parliament. Mrs Jytte had the opportunity to vote against the very damaging proposals in the Committee on the Environment. Unfortunately, she did not take that opportunity and abstained in the final vote, which I regret. It is a worrying question, to say the least, how we will succeed in obtaining support in Parliament if even the Swedish parliamentarians do not stand up for Swedish forestry and for our opportunities to use the green gold to get rid of black oil and black coal. The fact is that Sweden has come extremely far in the transition. We have phased out fossil fuels in terms of power generation and heat production, and already today more than a third of our energy comes from bioenergy. But in Europe, over 80% of the energy supply is fossil-based, so here in Sweden we have, to say the least, a lesson to teach to our colleagues around Europe. I would like to stress that in this case it is important that the government does not sit back but is really active and proactive and does not think that this will work out because the Committee on the Environment does not decide on this alone. When it came to LULUCF, for example, the discussion on land use climate accounting and the indirect effects of land use, we saw that the government was initially far too passive. We from the Riksdag and not least the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture had to push for a rather sharp approach in order for Sweden's interests to be taken into account in a good way. I would really urge the government to continue the work that the Government here attests to is taking place: to build coalitions and collaborations, not least with our neighbour on the other side of the Baltic Sea, Finland. The fact is that when Sweden, Austria and Finland joined the EU more than doubled the EU's total forest area. This is probably one of the reasons why we sometimes find it difficult to reach out with an understanding of the importance of forests and the Swedish forestry model. When you talk to a Dutchman about what forest is, the person may have a slightly different view. Again, push, and do it on time! I would also urge the government to undertake reforms here in Sweden to further increase production in the Swedish forest. Here I feel that the government is not active enough. There's a lot to do. As far as the Moderates are concerned, we have put forward concrete proposals to review when final felling is allowed, which circulation times are to be met, regulatory simplifications in the form that you do not need to report fellings for smaller areas and so on. There is much to do at home as well.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-276	Madam President, I would like The Swedish forest is really a strategically important interest for Sweden. It is for jobs, for the economy, to meet the climate challenge and really in every way. We are also seeing developments in which forests as materials can be used in all possible parts of society – in the transport sector to meet the challenges we have there, in the chemical sector, which is talking about a major change and in other parts. We also see, as we shall remember, that Sweden's forestry is if not the most so at least one of the most sustainable in the world. We have the equal production and environmental objectives with the great responsibility of individual forest owners in an excellent and exemplary way. However, there are quite a few of us who are concerned about the work that is now taking place in Europe. As both Johan Hultberg and the Minister have discussed, there are also different views in different countries depending on how much forest you have, traditions and other things. There is a concern about what will happen to Swedish forestry and the possibilities of using this good resource. The outcome that came in one of the committees in the European Parliament was, of course, directly bad for Sweden. I think there are some questions to which the Minister should answer in this House. One is that I assume that the Government Office will conduct a solid review and analysis of what the effects of such an outcome could be. It would be interesting to hear the Minister describe what effects such an outcome could have on the Swedish forest industry and on, for example, the climate issue. Another question is what the government really wants in this. I know that the Minister has gone around – it can only be encouraged, I think – and had different meetings and contacts, both here in Sweden to show off and out in Europe. But it would also be interesting to hear what the government wants in concrete terms on a number of the key issues now under discussion. Are there things you absolutely want to see through and decided on in this? Conversely, what are the elements of the proposals now under discussion – which are not on the map – which are a sort of red line for the government? It would be interesting to hear the Minister clarify this to the House.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-283	Madam President, I would like It is true that in this House – and, I would say, broadly in Sweden based on the experience we have – we agree. I think it is a great strength, not least when, at a later stage, both in cooperation with other countries, but also in dialogue with the Commission, the Council of Europe and Parliament, we are going to approach these issues. Our position is clearly that we have sustainable forestry, although there is always room for improvement, of course; we must never settle down. I would even argue that we have one of the most sustainable forestry in the world, based on the fact that we have made quite strict demands over the years. The fact that we have the largest harvest of forest products in a very long time and yet have net growth in the forest shows this. That's good. Unfortunately, we are now faced with many countries' own negative experiences. The Netherlands was mentioned as an example. It is a country where for a long time it had such extensive seafaring activities that it cut down large parts of its forest and has those experiences with it. In other countries, I have discovered in my work of arguing for the Swedish position that many times people misunderstand what we are doing. When I was in the European Parliament in May, I had a dialogue with one of the most sceptical Members, who, after a while, went along and said: Are you saying that you are not sending whole trees into the thermal power plants? I was paff, because we think it goes without saying that we should never do that. Firstly, there is no economy in it. Secondly, there is no environmental idea in it. Thirdly, you just can't do that. However, it has obviously been understood in some quarters that this is the case, so we must inform ourselves of what we are doing. That is why we also invited both Commissioners to look at one of our most modern thermal power plants – to show what we are doing. We have also, in the case of both pine oil and crop-based products, driven quite hard for them to be included. We should be aware that this is not about a ban on use but about how to count. We believe that this is sustainable and renewable and should therefore also be taken into account. I expect that when we have this discussion in the Council over the coming weeks and months, thanks to the good footwork we are doing, we will also have a greater voice than we are now seeing in the European Parliament. However, we must not give up on the European Parliament either, ladies and gentlemen. We have to keep working towards them, too. During these days, I have sought contact with several of our Members from a number of parties that I know are engaged – both Jytte Guteland, who is very committed to this, as well as representatives of other parties: Moderates, center parties and others. I see this as a national interest. We should not try to make party politics out of something we basically agree on. This issue is far too important for that. Have we done analyses of what that would mean? Yes, a brief analysis that I have mentioned before: I am fairly sure that it is not possible to make the Swedish energy system completely sustainable and 100% renewable if we do not have the opportunity to use the residual products from sustainable forestry. It's a basic condition. Examples are the heating sector and the reduction obligation, which is now supposed to be a tool for reducing emissions from the transport sector. It is therefore extremely important that we continue to work on and develop both our forestry policy and our energy policy. I am quite sure that if we can understand this, we will also be able to do so.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-293	Madam President, I would like Much of this discussion at EU level is of a rather principled nature. Now in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we managed to eliminate perhaps the worst ideas, namely that we should go into much greater political terms and regulate what the log is to be used for – that the so-called cascade principle should be regulated by law, for example. It is extremely important that the government really does take the fundamental discussion and stand up for the market economy and that it is in fact the one that best determines where resources do the best good and create the highest values. Then I slightly object to the description that Swedish forestry and its sustainability have been driven by strict requirements. I would like to say, Madam President, that we have reached what we have achieved thanks to the great commitment of Sweden's 330 000 forest owners. We have a forestry model in Sweden based on freedom under responsibility: We have, from the legislator's side, fairly comprehensively regulated how the use should be done, and the individual owner can then decide in more detail. This has proved to be very successful. It takes greater account of the law, certifies its forest properties and makes voluntary provisions. It thus delivers great environmental benefits and great biological values and makes an important contribution to the climate, while also producing good products that make an important contribution to the solution to the climate challenge. So, Madam President, I just want to reinvigorate the need for the government to remain active. I also look forward to the Minister answering the most relevant questions that my colleague Lars Hjälmered asked about where the red line goes for Sweden and what other priorities Sweden has in the further negotiations.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-298	Madam President, I would like Swedish forests and forest policy and everything around them offer incredible opportunities for our country, for Swedish industry and for their use. It is exciting to see both research and what many companies are doing, which opens up incredible opportunities in the form of new jobs that can emerge in different sectors of society. In the previous speech, Madam President, I actually put two questions to the Government. One was about what analysis the government has done and the other what the government thinks on a number of critical issues. I note that the Government responds to the question of analysis and says that an assessment, grossly axiated, is that a transition to a fully sustainable energy system cannot be achieved, as I think he put it. I would like to hear what the analysis says about the Swedish climate targets. What is the government doing for in-depth analysis in this area? That would also be interesting to hear. As regards the second question, that of the government's views, according to the Government was a question of how to get credited. Should it be interpreted that the Government just said that the government's view is that all biofuels should be credited as part of the Swedish commitment to climate and energy policy in Europe? Secondly, what more sharp views does the government have when it sits in various meetings and talks with Commissioners, MEPs and other relevant critical elements of what is now being discussed about the future of forestry policy?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-303	Madam President, I would like It will be a little strange to try a party political discussion on an issue in which we are basically very much in agreement. Yes, sustainable use of forestry is important. Yes, there is reason to have concerns about some of the views we face, not least in the European Parliament and parts of the European Union where there is a history of poor experience. We do not have those experiences. On the contrary, we have chosen a different path. That is why we have the development we have in forestry and in energy policy. A number of questions are asked about the views we have expressed. It is the case, Lars Hjälmered, that all the views that we put forward in the EU context, for example in the Council of Ministers, should be anchored here in Parliament, both in the committees and in the EU Board. This, of course, is also the case here, and I feel that we have a rather broad consensus. Then the question is how we intend to work on this. We will continue, both in the lobbying work we are doing in the long term and in the actual negotiations, to drive the Swedish line hard that products such as advanced biofuels from pine oil will continue to be included in the annex that it is basically about. This is our view for the simple reason that we believe it to be sustainable and feasible. If we handle both climate objectives and energy policy properly, which I think the Swedish system has every opportunity to do, it is also good for jobs and growth in our country and in the European Union. We have that view, and we will drive it hard. We also have good hopes of being able to gain ever stronger support both in the Council of Ministers and in the Commission and, hopefully, also increasingly with Parliament.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-307	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me The starting point for Lars Beckman's question is very important, namely society's need for a secure and sustainable electricity supply. It was precisely against this background that the government appointed an Energy Commission in March 2015, which resulted in the 2016 Energy Agreement. The basis for a high level of security of supply is a robust energy system based on a diversified energy mix, secure and diversified infrastructure and well-functioning energy markets. In addition to measures to strengthen security of supply, emergency measures are also required to deal with any disruptions that have been or have already occurred. I would like to point out here a number of measures that the government has already taken. At the same time, however, we cannot believe that an energy shortage situation could not happen. More long-term power outages have occurred, and it would be naive to believe that they will never be repeated. The Swedish Energy Agency works actively with the dissemination of knowledge through facts to different target groups, including the public and companies, on how the consequences of disturbances in electricity supply can be prevented and mitigated. The Swedish Energy Agency has also developed a planning method in order to prioritise electricity as much as possible to socially important electricity users, so-called "steel". Two planning rounds covering all municipalities and authorities in the country have been completed so far, and one will take place in 2018. In addition, the Swedish power grid has the Government's mission to make an annual assessment of the power situation before each winter, and they have the opportunity to procure more resources within the power reserve if necessary. Other and less predictable threats to electricity supply are addressed in the context of the work of the Security Policy Council and outlined in the National Security Strategy. Finally, I would like to say that the cross-block energy agreement that was reached in 2016 is followed up by an implementation team and periodic control stations. This includes, among other things, that the relevant authorities should follow developments on the Swedish electricity market in order to achieve the goal of Sweden having a robust electricity system with a high level of security of supply.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-314	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is a question I raised at Question Time a couple of weeks ago. At the time, I thought the Government answered a little casually to my question. I thought, then, that it would be good to have an interpellation debate on this, so that we can find out where we have the government on this issue and what measures it intends to take so that there will not be a partial switch-off of the electricity grid this winter. I note that the prepared written interpellation response that the Government has read out here does not really match the spontaneous response he gave to Question Time. Anyone who wants to see the debate can go in and look at Parliament's website. The background to the question is, of course, that I am worried about what happens in a really cold winter. What happens if we get a situation where in northern Europe it becomes a so-called ten-year winter? The Government has provided examples of measures that will be taken. I am not sure that everyone is really familiar with what the words mean, but we now have the opportunity to debate that. What does power reserve mean, for example? Well, at home in my county, I think it means that our big companies are composing to reduce their industrial production in favour of households and others being able to get electricity. This must, of course, be done in an emergency situation, when one has decommissioned functioning electricity and there is a shortage of electricity in the system, but if it is socio-economically good, I am not quite sure. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has carried out a survey asking companies in Sweden if they know that they may experience partial extinguishing. Nine out of ten companies in Sweden are not aware of this. The Government states in its interpellation response that the authorities have a task to inform about this and that they have an information plan. But since nine out of ten companies do not know about this, what can be done better or different to make them aware of it? Then there's the households. Do Swedish households know what the risk of partial extinguishing means? Do Swedish households know what it means if it is really cold outside and the authorities start to turn off the power grid? I am quite sure that the vast majority of Swedes have not read the report Priority of electricity users in the event of a shortage of electricity. It would certainly be interesting reading for many, not least for the Government. We must have an energy policy that will also be able to cope with this year's coldest day. During Question Time, I thought the Government's answer was a little rlling. He seemed to mean that the government has a policy of increased electricity surpluses. It's possible. But we have to cope with the electricity supply on the coldest day of the year – the day when Sweden consumes the most energy. I would therefore like to see a more offensive government, which talks about the risks of partial switch-off, so that companies, citizens and others are prepared and that our municipalities and authorities have practised for this situation. I have not seen anything in the answer that makes me safe if we were to have a really cold period in mid-February, but I hope I am wrong.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-322	Madam President, I would like Energy policy is ultimately about secure access to electricity and other energy. It is about both households and companies being able to feel confident that electricity is there when they need it and that it is done at reasonable prices and with as little environmental impact as possible. I think Lars Beckman is asking a number of relevant questions. It is an important discussion that we must address in society: can we really cope with the security of electricity supply that both households and businesses are counting on and should be able to count on? The Minister gives a number of descriptions which I think are correct and sets out measures taken by the authorities. He describes that we concluded the energy policy agreement and that part of it means that every four years there will be a follow-up, where a number of authorities will be asked to look at the situation in the electricity and energy markets and see how to manage the mission and what challenges there are in the future and must be dealt with politically and in other ways. The Riksdag has also previously decided to give a sharper assignment to Swedish power grids to look at the impact situation not only instantaneously on an individual occasion but also forward-looking in a different way than previously. In the answer, the Government describes two things that I would like to highlight. One is that Svenska Kraftnät has the Government's mission to make an assessment of the impact situation each year. Then I was going to ask: What assessment is being made of the impact situation, and what is the government's analysis of the situation ahead of the winter that is coming? Does the government think that it can sleep well at night in this regard? The second is that the Minister describes the work of the Security Council and discussions on threats to electricity supply that have taken place there. Then I would like to ask: when was this raised in the Security Policy Council, and what did the Minister discuss with the Prime Minister and the other ministers in the Security Policy Council – what aspects of this with security of electricity supply were on the agenda then?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-326	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman is probably fully aware that it is one thing to give an answer during a Question Time, when you have a minute plus half a minute to answer, and a completely different one to answer in an interpellation debate, where you can give a detailed answer and have nearly 16 minutes in total. If you want a detailed answer, you should do exactly as Lars Beckman has done, namely write an interpellation. I welcome that. There is a demand for an offensive policy here. I would say, without shaking the cuffs, that in the field of energy policy I have probably not seen a term of office like this for 40 years. It's about everything that's going on in politics, in actual proposals, investigations, efforts and draft budgets – we haven't seen anything like this in a long time. What I am pleased, however, is that we are doing this together. Then why do we do it? Because, basically, there has been a concern about the supply of electricity, not in the short but in the long term. Why? Because, in its energy settlement, the previous government had an idea of the future of the part of the Swedish electricity system that supplies between 40 and 50 per cent of the electricity, i.e. nuclear power. When the old reactors were to be decommissioned, it was thought that new ones would be built in the same location. Since 2009, when the deal was concluded by the previous government, it has become increasingly clear that this will not happen, for market economy reasons. That is why this government started work with an Energy Commission, where all parties have participated and where the industry has participated. Representatives of environmental organisations and the energy industry have participated. It's been wide. People throughout our society have participated. It subsequently landed in an energy policy deal with really three objectives. Supply security and security of supply are an important and central element. But it must also be sustainable and competitive, that is to say that prices should not be allowed to go any further. That is what the objectives are. That is what we will continue to do. We have since worked intensively to deliver this. A large number of proposals have been dealt with. I am not entirely 100 on whether Lars Beckman is aware that he has voted in favour of a number of these in Parliament. I am glad to hear that. He's nodding. That's good. We have done this on a broad scale. Eighty per cent of the members of Parliament are behind this policy. In addition, we could note that the previous government's decision to close the power reserve did not feel really safe. That is why we have proposed, and have received the support of the Parliament, that it should be extended. There, the Swedish power grid has the opportunity to make the necessary assessments. I also received questions, Madam President, about the assessment for the winter. I would like to postpone it because, in the coming week, I have a meeting with both hydropower owners and nuclear power owners, who are still the lion's share of our electricity production. I meet them just to make an assessment for the winter: What does it look like? Madam President, I would like We also have the possibility of steering, which we are now talking about. Yes, Lars Beckman, sometimes industries may be asked to stand still with their production. The aim is to ask the industries that actually know this. Swedish power networks do procurement. It is mainly the paper and pulp industries – they are among the largest energy consumers in our society – that can vary their production. For example, the steel industry certainly cannot do that. There, ten seconds of interruption can cause quite a considerable economic and actual damage. Yeah, we're working on this. We will continue to work on it. I am pleased to hear Members concerned about this. But when it comes to an offensive government policy, I would say that this has not happened for a very long time.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-334	Madam President, I would like Yes, households, businesses and others will, of course, notice by mid-February, if it gets really cold, if the Government was right or wrong. For my part, I hope that the Government is right, namely that there will not be a partial switch-off this winter. I got an answer to one of the questions. During Question Time, you told me you were inviting the industry. Now you told me you were meeting in the near future. I think, of course, that Lars Helmered's question is extremely relevant. How do the responsible authorities view the situation in the coming winter? Another important question is: How have you practiced? What directives has the government given to county boards and others? How are households in Sweden prepared for a possible partial switch-off? How are businesses prepared? I haven't found a household examination. But I have it that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise did a few years ago. At least we can see that companies do not know or have plans to do so. Since the knowledge is so low, I have to repeat my question to the Government. What does the government intend to do to ensure that there are plans for this winter too, should the worst happen? As far as energy policy is concerned, of course, colleagues of mine can do much better. However, I can at least say that I am a great friend of nuclear power. It is obvious that we will have a well-functioning energy system every day of the year, regardless of heat or cold and no matter where you live in Sweden. It is also important that industry can have its production year-round, regardless of outdoor temperature, and that it has an energy policy for it. Of course, it's very important.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-338	Madam President, I would like In this debate, which deals ultimately with the security of electricity supply, I would like to highlight three perspectives. The first concerns the issue of hydropower. The answer describes some things that have already happened. Let me point out, then, that hydroelectric power is ahead of us. The five parties behind the energy deal will soon sit down and negotiate on this. We from the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats are waiting for a negotiating offer from the Minister. I would say that it is extremely important that we break this so that we protect and can develop hydropower. There are a number of major and critical issues in this. We don't have time right now to go through every detail. However, I would argue that it is extremely important for us to land correctly in order to be able to deal with the climate issue and the security of electricity supply. It is about the possibility of judicial review and the right interpretation of the EU requirements imposed on Sweden. It is also about some other things that need to be done in a clever and good way, so that we do not chance off the security of electricity supply for Sweden. The second concerns the issue of the Swedish power grid and the power situation, which I was talking about in my previous post. I hope that the Minister will later be able to return to Parliament with clarity. The third, Madam President, concerns a question to which the Government does not answer. This is about the Security Council. In his reply to Lars Beckman, the Minister describes that this question has been before the Council. It sounds generally wise, that is to discuss different types of threats to Sweden and the electricity system that may exist. My questions in this area were: when has this been up in the Security Policy Council? What are the issues that Minister Baylan and the Prime Minister and the others have talked about?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-343	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I came to grips with two of the points he raised with regard to the effectiveness guarantees of the coming winter. In paragraph 2, the Minister says: Under the Energy Agreement, a new target of 18 terawatt hours of renewable electricity has been decided. That's good. We like renewable electricity. I think we all agree on this. But the problem is – it is in the nature of the matter, one can say in a little Gothenburg – that sun and wind do not always produce when the need is greatest. I think that particular part of the Minister's reply is quite irrelevant in relation to this issue, because this is nothing that secures the effect of the Swedish electricity system. You can't control when the wind blows and when the sun shines. I just wonder: why did the Minister choose to highlight that part? I would also like to refer to hydroelectric power, which Lars Helmered mentioned. In the memorandum on new legislation in the water directive area, the Swedish Hydropower Association says that 85 per cent of small hydro power is at risk of disappearing as a result of this bill. We haven't seen the final bill yet. I hope, of course, that this is not true. The second point in the Minister's reply that I would like to mention is: Swedish power networks continue to make historical investments within Sweden and to neighbouring countries in transmission capacity. That is good, and it will probably be good in the longer term. But right now, the balt cable is the largest transmission cable we have. Today it is a pure export cable. It goes out of Electricity Zone 4, which today is the electricity area with the least electricity generation and perhaps the most need. I wonder why the Minister in his reply, which relates to the energy supply of the coming winter, chooses to highlight this very point when we know that the transmission capacity currently going to the Baltic States is actually at risk of destroying the electricity system in electricity area 4. I have a little question that the Minister, in a response to the impact situation in Sweden in the coming winter, chooses to highlight these two points. In fact, I believe that this is more a threat to the impact situation in Sweden than a guarantee that we will be able to cope with the effect of the coming winter.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-350	Madam President, I would like Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your questions. I'll try to graze some of them and start with one of my heart issues: hydropower. In many ways, hydropower is a blessing to our country. It is, I would say, the core of our electrical system for many different reasons. It is renewable, adjustable and in this context, when we talk about winter, even storageable at a level that very little else is today. Unfortunately, hydropower has been in limbo for a long time. It has been an issue of concern how to implement the EU's water directives in relation to hydropower. The previous government set up an investigation that was then abandoned, an investigation that various stakeholders did not even agree on what it meant. For some, it meant little while for others it meant a rather large reduction in the production of hydropower. Within the framework of the Energy Commission, we have agreed on the direction. Now we are going to sit down and draw up a bill, and my goal is to do this together so that it gives the long-termness that hydropower needs. However, I do not believe, and I also believe that Lars Hjälmered is fully aware of this, that the matter will benefit from being negotiated in the Parliament's pulpit. To my knowledge, no complicated issues have ever been resolved in negotiations from speaking chairs, but I am counting on us to do so in exactly the same serious and good way that we have done when we have implemented energy agreements also in relation to hydropower. I have also been asked what exactly are the issues discussed in the Security Policy Council. I refer to what I set out in my reply, namely what is set out in the national security strategy, and that has happened recently. That was the answer to that question. I have also been asked a number of questions about foreign cables. The foreign cables that the Members are talking about are cables that were decided upon by the previous bourgeois government. Surely it cannot be the case that cables have been deliberately built that are a threat to our own power situation. That is the case, Madam President, and I think Members are fully aware that these cables can be used for both imports and exports. The truth is that until a few years ago Sweden was a net importer of electricity, and then these cables were quite good, not least in power shortages. The last four years we have been net exporters, and according to the energy arrangement that we have made across the block borders in the Riksdag, the goal is to continue to be a net exporter of electricity, that is, we will produce more electricity than we use in Sweden. We will also make it more renewable. Yes, Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby, it is clear that it is not possible to count in the same way in the case of wind power, as in the case of hydroelectric power, nuclear power or, for that matter, bioenergy. But wind power also provides input in terms of the power situation. Swedish power networks estimate approximately 11 percent in terms of installed capacity. So it is the expert authority that does it and not politics. Moreover, it is a well-known fact, although it has sometimes been claimed otherwise, that there is more wind in winter than in summer, and in this case it is quite good. Dear friends! We have challenges. That is why we appointed the Energy Commission, and that is why we have reached a cross-block agreement. We have very good conditions to develop our system together, step by step, so that it becomes even more secure and competitive as well as more sustainable and renewable.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-360	Madam President, I would like My interpellation is not primarily about energy policy, although of course it is natural for us to discuss the whole, but my concern is about the coming winter. What happens this winter if it gets very cold in northern Europe and in Sweden at the same time? How are our municipalities prepared? How are our government agencies prepared? How much have you practiced? What contingency plans are there? There are lots of different issues, because we can risk ending up in a situation that we have never been in before. It is clear that it would be good if the Government had the opportunity in its final speech to reassure all those who actually feel a legitimate concern about what the plans are if we had to resort to the ultimate tool, partial switch-off, this winter. Hopefully it won't be necessary, and hopefully the Government will be right. However, if that happens, it is important that the government has told our authorities in regulatory letters, in directives and in other ways that this is a priority, which I hope and believe it is. Thank you, Minister, for the debate.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-363	Madam President, I would like As far as cables are concerned, it is not about who decided on them, but about the Minister using the cables as an example of how to prepare for the impact of the coming winter. There we know that it is especially electricity area 4 that is exposed, where there is no hydropower, where there are nuclear power plants that do not produce as they did before and where we have the balt cable, which is today a pure export cable. Of course it is a good thing that we export electricity, it is not about that, but today's question is about the impact needs of the coming winter and whether we will be able to cope with it. In fact, I think that the Minister's answer is quite irrelevant. Today, the cables are no guarantee of coping with the power situation, especially in electricity area 4. The same can be said, Madam President, of the Minister's comments on renewable electricity. Of course, renewable electricity increases Swedish electricity production overall over the year. But it is also not an answer to Lars Beckman's question about how to cope with the effects of the coming winter. Renewable electricity in the form of wind and sun – not water – is volatile, as we say in expert languages. It means that sometimes it blows a lot, sometimes the sun shines and sometimes it doesn't. It gives no guarantee or security that we can handle the impact situation when it is as cold as in Sweden. Then there are other things that need to be done. I think it's good that we have cables. I think it is good that we have renewable electricity. But I do not think, Madam President, that the two points are relevant to Lars Beckman's question about how we can cope with the cold snaps in the coming winter.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-368	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Members for a good discussion. The truth is that one of the reasons why the Swedish people do not think about this is that it happens so rarely – thank God. Of course we have had storms that have knocked out electricity production both short and a little longer, but I think people understand that. This has also improved because, not least after Gudrun, cables have been buried in the regional network. I am slightly opposed to the view that only the hydropower of renewable energy contributes to the impact situation. It is clear that hydropower is a blessing, as I said, but the truth is that the whole effect situation in winter is a heat issue. As mentioned earlier, this is about when it gets cold, and the reason why we do it as well as we do and that we are now net exporters of electricity is, of course, that our energy in winter mainly comes from biomass, perhaps the largest renewable source, something that we should not forget in this context. It is important to emphasise, not least in connection with the previous interpellation debate we had. We have challenges, and we work with them, for example through assignments to authorities that are already working actively. I also believe that, within the framework of the Energy Commission, we have contributed to a fairly broad discussion of both the challenges and the possibilities for the Swedish energy system. The energy system is changing. Now we have not been into it, but for the first time in our modern history also opens up the possibility of being able to store electricity, perhaps even over the season if you look a few years ahead. Clearly, it opens up solutions that are completely different from those we are seeing today. We will do our utmost to cope with both normal situations and ten-year winters, today and beyond. That is why we have done the work we have done within the Energy Commission, and I welcome the commitment of Members.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-374	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me three questions about the new Swedish National Board of Agriculture's animal welfare regulations for pigs. He has asked me if I intend to: Promote that the Authority waits for the assessment of the Scientific Council before the proposed new rules for pigs are allowed to enter into force 中 take some measures to ensure that the regulations do not deviate from the preventive function of the Animal Welfare Act 中 take some steps to ensure that proposals for animal welfare regulations are based on a scientific basis, so that the interest of producers does not take precedence over concern for animal health and welfare. Initially, I would like to say that the Swedish Board of Agriculture has the government's authority to issue regulations on animal welfare and is independent of the government in the concrete regulatory work. The Swedish Board of Agriculture recently decided on new animal welfare regulations for farm animals, which include the possibility of previous weaning of piglets under special conditions. The Government's food strategy assesses that the profitability of livestock production needs to be increased, but not at the expense of animal welfare. On the contrary, the Food Strategy emphasises that Sweden should continue to have high ambitions in terms of animal welfare and animal health. It is stated that the increase in production should be carried out while maintaining animal welfare and animal health and that the level of animal welfare should not be reduced. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has assessed that the new animal welfare regulations can be applied with the maintenance of animal welfare, while helping to increase the competitiveness of pig producers. The Government considers it important that regulations are based on current scientific research on animal welfare and has therefore commissioned SLU to establish a Scientific Council. Through the Council, we ensure that the Swedish Board of Agriculture as an important part of, among other things, regulatory work has access to up-to-date scientific information. The Board of Agriculture is constantly reviewing its regulations, and this work cannot stop pending the establishment of the Council. It is a top priority to maintain a high standard in Swedish animal welfare, animal health and disease protection. I am convinced that the work of our authorities to achieve this works.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-383	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht for the answer to my interpellation. Care for animals is an issue that involves many people in Sweden. This is an incredibly important issue. For example, Section 4 of the Animal Welfare Act states that animals should have the possibility of natural behaviour. Good animal care is also a competitive advantage for those who produce food based on animals if one can point out that animals have been treated well in Sweden. We also know that the use of medicines, such as antibiotics, is very low in Sweden compared to other countries. I hope we agree that we will continue in this way. So I and many others were very surprised and also upset when we saw the Swedish Board of Agriculture's proposal for new regulations for pig farming. In these regulations, the work proposes that pig cults can be separated earlier from the sow – a whole week earlier than now. It should be remembered that closeness between the sow and her offspring is incredibly important. When the animals suckle, they prevent diseases and minimize antibiotic use. This is about newborn pig individuals who need closeness and security from the sow. Weaning the pigs earlier than now is something that is basically rejected by all the expertise in this area. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht is welcome to tell us if he has found any independent scientist or scientific woman or any independent scientific reports that indicate that you can strengthen animal welfare by removing the cults earlier from the sow. The Swedish Board of Agriculture says that the proposal has been sent out for consultation. It is true that this has been done, but the question is whether the totally deafening criticism that has come against the proposals has been heard. More than 70% of the consultation bodies are critical and reject this proposal. These are basically all county administrative boards, the Swedish Veterinary Association, researchers and animal rights and animal welfare organisations. In a short time more than 60 000 signatures have been collected in protest against the proposal and have been handed over to you, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. As I said, many of us were surprised by the proposal. The Swedish Board of Agriculture says that the proposal to reduce pig rearing rules must be presented because that is what the food strategy requires. I find that odd. After all, all parties are behind the food strategy. As the Minister said, we will produce more food in Sweden, but it should not be at the price of a deterioration in animal welfare. I believe that a politically determined objective, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, is now being seriously sidelined. Then the government must act, and the government can act. This can be done by giving instructions to their authorities about what applies. This is what I want Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht to do. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht could say that we can wait until the Scientific Council on Animal Welfare has been set up. The task of this Council shall be precisely to weigh different interests against each other. When will the Scientific Council on Animal Welfare be set up, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-391	Madam President, I would like Government of Bucht! I share much of the criticism made by Jens Holm of the proposal from the Swedish Board of Agriculture. We will follow science and proven experience, but the study that says this is going well is not published in any scientific journal. As far as proven experience is concerned, individual tests have been carried out and have not been proven and do not contain any further experience. On the other hand, there is a great deal of experience in four weeks, which even Efsa, which is not usually a radical animal fighter, thinks is the right time. There is a trend in Denmark and Germany where you go towards extended time. Today we in Sweden have a Middle Ages of 33 days before weaning. In other EU countries it is about 26 days before weaning. Moving towards this cut instead of moving upwards is the wrong way to go. I am just as worried as Jens Holm that a responsible divisional director at the Swedish Board of Agriculture interprets the food strategy as this to increase production. The food strategy also states that we should have strong animal welfare and good animal welfare, as well as a clear focus on preventive animal health work. This is where the proposal runs counter to both legislation and the food strategy. Because if you remove the cults in the past, you discover the problems afterwards, and then you walk away from the principle that we have always had about preventive work. In addition, each animal has the right to an individual assessment. You should look at each individual animal. Excluding 10% in a group and giving them worse conditions also contradicts the way we have interpreted the law so far. I hope now that the government will be able to clarify the whole meaning of the Food Strategy for the Swedish Agriculture Agency and not just selected parts. I hope this is particularly true given that the consultation bodies were very critical and there is so much scientific evidence that this would affect the use of antibiotics and so on. We know that past weaning increases morbidity and stress. There is a need for increased antibiotic use, which means that the animals suffer more from diarrhoea and other problems. If you are going to walk away from the advice from SLU and many referrals, you must really have heavy feet. If we maintain today's rules in this area, we can proceed with our proposals, I think. However, if the regulatory framework is weakened, the right thing to do is to wait for the Scientific Council's review, because we want to put our feet on, so that we ensure that we do not abandon our animal legislation and our food strategy if we make changes that have met with so much resistance. Then we really want to keep our feet on and it would be much safer to wait for the advice of the Scientific Council in that case.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-398	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Rural Affairs! Jens Holm, Carl Schlyter and various animal welfare associations and others object to somewhat more flexible rules for piglets farming and make a big deal of this. Some of the opponents probably don't want any Swedish piglets, but instead recommend that you don't eat pork at all. Sweden's pig farming is world class when it comes to high animal welfare standards. In other countries, for example on the continent of the EU, the rules are not as strict. The use of antibiotics is much higher, and the use of straw is much lower or none. Those of us who are omnivores and eat pork and like animal welfare should therefore buy Swedish pork. It also provides the conditions for a better cycle and less transport. The bar could be set even higher than what Swedish animal welfare legislation is doing today. Some people just want to buy organic pork. However, it costs twice as much and has a market share of perhaps 2%. If, for example, the Green Party, or perhaps the Left Party, were to get the Social Democrats on that shoulder, the imports of pigmeat, which have already increased sharply for many years, would undoubtedly explode and increase very strongly. Swedish pig production would then decrease very sharply. Then we have turned the goat into a gardener, and the pigs we eat have had much worse. That is what you must have in mind when discussing these issues. Imports mean that the pigs we eat have lived under lower animal welfare standards than what we have today and which are in world densities. It is good that the food strategy exists and is decided. The strategy will provide the conditions for increasing Swedish food production, so that the animals get better. Without increased profitability and competitiveness, this will not be possible. Therefore, it is fundamentally good and necessary to review Swedish regulations, lower Swedish taxes and perhaps make the regulations a little more flexible in one place and another where they are perhaps a little square today. We therefore agree on the continuation of good animal protection. We will ensure that Swedish pig industry is stronger, and that is what I perceive the state, the Swedish Agriculture Agency and the industry in dialogue with others now makes possible. It's not a big drama. The main rule is 28 days for weaning piglets, and it remains. However, if the pig farm is very well managed and meets eleven conditions for good animal health and welfare, for practical reasons a small part of the piglets in any litter may be younger. That is what this debate is about. This may contribute somewhat to Swedish pig industry being able to resist the increasing import of pigmeat from other countries with lower animal welfare standards, which is necessary. Pigs do not get better if imports of pigmeat into Sweden increase. We are proud of Swedish food production and want to continue to have good animal welfare. We agree on that. We want Swedish food production to increase. If this is to happen, we must be able to simplify the regulatory framework and make it a little more flexible. Let us not overdramatize this!
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-405	Madam President, I would like I have to correct a few claims. The signatures referred to have not been handed over to me as Minister of State, but to the Swedish Board of Agriculture. SLU has an ambition to introduce the Council at the end of the year, but we do not know if they can do it. The national food strategy states that we must increase competitiveness, not least for Swedish primary production. Without primary production, we will not have a food industry either. This is necessary. But the strategy is also very clear that we should maintain animal health and welfare. I claim that animal welfare and animal health in Sweden are world-class. It's unbeatable. I have full confidence in the Swedish Board of Agriculture as an expert authority. It is an independent authority that works with the concrete regulatory work and makes assessments through its experts. It's not something that I as a minister should go in and rule. The work has thus made these assessments and made it very clear that it is assessed that animal welfare and animal health can be maintained. Staffan Danielsson mentioned the eleven conditions. This is very uptight, and so there are special conditions for doing this. I'll mention some of the terms. The crew must be connected to a voluntary organised health check. The herd must be connected to the voluntary biosecurity programme, which concerns disease control for pig herds. The piglets must be raised in batches. Once the stables have been emptied, they must be empty for a number of days and be cleaned and disinfected before a new round can be started. Specially adapted feed supplements are needed. A maximum of 10 % of piglets may have a weaning period of less than 26 days. Compared to EU rules, 100% of piglets can be weaned at 21 days. In Sweden today we have an average weaning of 30 days. This proposal provides an average weaning of 28 days. However, please note that only 10 percent of piglets may be weaned for less than 26 days, plus that the other conditions must have been fulfilled in order to enter the system at all. I know that our Swedish pig producers have a great deal of knowledge and are also very committed to good animal care. They want to maintain Sweden's world leading position. It is not something that the producers want to blur and carelessly remove. They know that we are the world leader in this area and that we thus have a competitiveness that makes Swedish consumers but also consumers in other countries want to buy the Swedish products.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-412	Madam President, I would like Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht mentioned the food strategy earlier and that the purpose of it is that we must increase the competitiveness of the Swedish food industry and increase the production of food in Sweden. This is something that all parties support, but I wonder if the Minister does not see it as a problem when the food strategy is used, for example, by managers of the Swedish Board of Agriculture to present the proposal on deteriorating living conditions for pigs. The Swedish Board of Agriculture says that they must present a proposal that increases the competitiveness of Swedish pig production. Therefore, they have put forward these provisions that will remove cults from the sow earlier than they do today. If this is the case, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, do you have a responsibility to inform the responsible authority that animal welfare must not in any way deteriorate in Sweden? Instead, we should work to strengthen animal welfare. As I said in my previous speech, Madam President, there is not a single scientific report that reinforces the claim that it would be better for pig cults to be removed earlier from the sow, which is the whole idea of the proposal. The government controls our authorities – I think this is important to remember. If the government sees political ends being missed, as in this case when animal welfare is being eroded, it is the government's duty to act. There I think the Minister is hiding behind the fact that this is a proposal from an authority and that the Minister cannot do anything at all. Yes, the minister can act. The Swedish government acts every day, gives instructions to our authorities, goes in and clarifies what is in laws and regulations and so on. I am thinking of the debate on the LSS, the law on support and service for certain disabled people, which was held here a few hours ago. Last week, the government went out and told the responsible authority – the Social Insurance Agency – that the two-year rule should be frozen and that there should be no deterioration for disabled people any longer. I think this is a great proposal and a concrete example of the government going in and acting when you see that there is a need for it. I would like to ask Mr Bucht about the Scientific Council on Animal Welfare. Now we were told that at best, if I understood correctly, it will be added before the end of the year. I think we've waited long enough for the Animal Welfare Council. The aim of the Council is that it should be able to be advisory and provide scientific input on how animal welfare can be strengthened in Sweden. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht! Since the Swedish Board of Agriculture's proposal has received monumental criticism from almost all the referral bodies that have responded – a unanimous criticism from science, researchers and various universities – I wonder why you do not wait for the regulations until the Scientific Council is in place, so that we can listen to their views on these deteriorations, as it is in my eyes, for the pigs?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-419	Madam President, I would like For a very long time, Sweden has been in a world stop when it comes to animal welfare and animal health. We are going to take care of this, and there the food strategy is very clear. It clearly states that we must strengthen competitiveness, but it is also clear that it must not be done at the expense of animal welfare and animal health. It was good that the interpellant mentioned that it is a deterioration in his eyes, because it may not be in everyone's eyes. Animal welfare is a priority for the government and for me, and I have great confidence that the Swedish Board of Agriculture has done careful work before presenting the change of regulation. As I mentioned in my previous post, there are a lot of conditions that are made for previous weaning to be used – eleven very tough conditions. These conditions are intended to ensure animal health and welfare. In addition, an animal health veterinarian must regularly monitor the health and welfare of piglets. High demands are placed on the protection of infectious diseases and on piglets to be kept in a good environment. We have worked on this in the long term, and this has meant that Sweden has the lowest antibiotic use in the EU. It is a consequence of our taking care of this, and we shall continue to look after and monitor it. The study that forms the basis for the change in regulation has been reviewed by researchers from SLU and SVA, the Swedish National Veterinary Institute. This has therefore been examined. As I said in my previous speech, the average weaning time today is 30 days, and this proposal changes it to 28 days. But there too, it is clear: A maximum of 10 percent of small cults may be weaned earlier than 26 days. In the EU rules, it is something quite different. There you have 21 days for everyone. We have a maximum of 10% in 26 days, so there's a difference. We continue to maintain a high standard of both animal health and care. I have full confidence that the Swedish Board of Agriculture has made correct and good balances in this context.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-426	Madam President, I would like I don't think I really got answers to all my questions. I stress and reiterate that the Minister and the Government can act if they believe that important political objectives are being missed here, and I can see that the Minister does not contradict that. Then I wonder, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht : Why do you not act when there is a monumental criticism of the suggestion that cults should be weaned from the sow earlier than what is happening today? Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht says that it is about a limited number of pigs, and that is true. This is 10 per cent of the total number of piglets in Sweden. I do not know whether it will be 100 000 or 200 000, but there are a great many people in the pig sector who will simply be sacrificed in order to increase efficiency and competitiveness. Perhaps the biggest and most serious problem with the proposal is that it strikes directly at what Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht has started all his speeches with this evening, namely the Swedish world-famous and witnessed animal welfare, of which everyone is so proud. And we're proud that we use so little antibiotics and so on, but now we're starting to apply methods that are more similar to what's down on the continent – in Denmark, Germany and so on. What do we really have to be proud of, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht? Why not wait for the Scientific Council to give its opinion on the proposal before it enters into force? I think that is a minimum requirement.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-430	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Board of Agriculture is making continuous changes to regulations. It is no wonder that it does so before the Scientific Council is in place. It's nothing strange at all. You can't stop all the work at the Board of Agriculture waiting for it. The Swedish Board of Agriculture is also an independent authority in relation to the government when it comes to the work on regulations and is responsible for it. It has made these assessments. The report is also reviewed by researchers from both SLU and SVA. The image that the interpellier here is trying to give is that it's just taken out of the air. It's not like that. It has a clear mission under the Food Strategy in terms of both competitiveness and not to impair animal health or care. This has been taken into account when setting very tough conditions. This change will also increase the competitiveness of pig farming. There are estimates showing that for a company with 200 sows it would give about SEK 75,000 a year. It would also cost significantly less per location for investments. There is an improvement in competition here. However, it is also possible to ensure that animal health and care continue to be world-class.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-435	Madam President, I would like Isabella Hökmark has asked me how I intend to act to further reduce cod quotas in the Baltic Sea. The government's basic position is that the measures we adopt, including the fixing of fishing opportunities, are in line with the objectives and principles of the common fisheries policy. I am thinking in particular of:
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-439	中 that scientific advice and the precautionary approach form the basis for decisions, and in the case of the Baltic Sea
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-440	These long-term sustainable fishing objectives are set to ensure that we continue to have fish in our seas, but also to optimise the sustainable production of fish for the benefit of our fishing industry as well as the general public and its consumers. The political agreement on fishing opportunities in the Baltic Sea for 2018 endorsed by Sweden at the Agriculture and Fisheries Council in October 2017 was based on scientific advice from ICES and the precautionary approach and in accordance with the multiannual plan for the Baltic Sea. That part of the agreement concerning the two cod stocks in the Baltic Sea was also based on the ICES advice for 2018 and the precautionary approach. For the cod quotas in the eastern Baltic Sea, the agreement means a reduction of the quotas for 2018 by 8 per cent compared to 2017. For the cod quotas in the Western Baltic Sea, the agreement provides for an unchanged cod quota for 2018 compared to 2017. It is not an end in itself to further reduce cod quotas in the Baltic Sea. Quota setting is central to achieving the objective of sustainable fisheries, but is one of several tools available. If further reductions in cod quotas are needed in order for us to have sustainable fisheries, I will work for it in accordance with the basic position of the government. However, my hope is that in the near future we will have a sustainable cod stock in the Baltic Sea, and I hope that we can increase the now historically low cod quotas. My aim is to make cod fishing in the Baltic Sea both biologically and socio-economically sustainable. Sustainable stocks are a prerequisite for socio-economic profitability. I will therefore continue to promote long-term sustainable fishing that benefits our industry and coastal communities and offers healthy food both to us and to future generations.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-443	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There are two cod stocks in the Baltic Sea, the eastern and the western. Over the last five years, 63 000 tonnes have been taken up but have not been able to catch more than 35 000 tonnes. It has therefore not been possible to catch its allocated quota. On the western stock, the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, ICES, has said that the values are below biological limits. Quotas of 1 000 to 3 000 tonnes have been proposed this year, although ministers decided on the quota of 5 500 tonnes. The recommendations of the researchers do not concern ministers very much in the negotiations. It should be the case that the focus is on applying a precautionary principle and not allowing fishing on the margins. The well-being of the Baltic Sea must be put ahead of short-term economic interests. Cods are disappearing. It must be in Sweden's interest that we maintain a fish stock of cod in the Baltic Sea. Therefore, my question to the Minister is what he intends to do to improve the chances of cod survival.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-448	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isabella Hökmark, for highlighting this important question! Long-term sustainable fishing is a priority for me and the government. Let me make it clear that it is not true that the cod quotas established for the Baltic Sea for 2018 were set far from what ICES recommended. The agreement reached in October, supported by Sweden, was based on ICES advice for 2018 and precautions and was in line with the multiannual plan for the Baltic Sea. As regards fishing opportunities for the western cod stock in 2018, it is even below the MSY points in the range recommended by ICES. I would like to say to the honourable Member that, thanks to Sweden's work in the negotiations, we landed on the cautious line. Here it is very often the case that the Commission and Sweden are almost alone in favour of the precautionary principle and that many other countries have a different view. That relationship has been for a long period of years. Thanks to Sweden's actions we got it in place. This creates an opportunity for a long-term good stock in the Baltic Sea. I would also like to say to the honourable Member that the aim is not to reduce quotas. That can't be the goal. The goal must be for us to have sustainable fishing in the long term and for us to be able to fish more. One can look at what we have had an effect over the years because Sweden has pursued a restrictive line, which has been necessary. If you look at the western stock had e in 2016 a decrease of 20 per cent and 2017 a decrease of 56 per cent. For the eastern stock we had 2015 minus 22 per cent, 2016 it was 20 per cent, 2017 it was 25 per cent and 2018 it will be 8 per cent. Quotas have been cut enormously to save the stock that is in trouble. This has to do with the need for sustainable fishing so that cod can also be fished in the future. Sweden has definitely pushed the cautious line. It is not Sweden that the honourable Member should delay in this context.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-454	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the objective should not be to reduce or increase quotas. The goal should be to save the cod. I do not think that is the case. The fact is that you cannot even fish the quotas that you decide on. The fishermen who are authorised to fish do not catch so much fish. I shall quote a colleague of the government to the Minister, who has said that every cod legally fished today is a gamble on the part of politicians, in which, with open eyes and with the clearly stated warnings of the researcher in their ears, cod is being put at risk in order to save a few jobs. It is Isabella Lövin, Deputy Prime Minister, who has said this. I would also like to quote Minister Bucht, who says that, as far as the outcome of both cod and salmon is concerned, I am pleased with the result which I believe is in line with our objective. It benefits our fishing industry, our coastal communities and provides healthy food for both us and future generations. ..................................................... I am surprised when I read at the same time what the scientists say about the stock of cod being below biologically safe levels. How can the Minister be satisfied?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-458	Madam President, I would like The fact that all the cod is not caught has to do with fishermen refraining from catching it because they are paid so badly for it. Of course, you don't fish it up. If it costs more to pick up the fish than you get paid for it, it will of course have this effect. Ice's advice is not easy to understand. They are complicated in many ways. If you look at the two cod stocks, you might think: this cod stock is in the eastern part, and this cod stock is in the west. But that is not the case; they are located in several different geographical areas. This makes it even more complicated when investigating whether or not the advice is being followed. Then there are a lot of other measures that are taken in addition to quota restrictions. It is about closed periods as an example. It is also about tool limitation and so on. However, I can assure the honourable Member that the agreement we reached in October 2017 for 2018 follows ICES advice and precautions. We have not been careless about this and, above all, I would like to say that Sweden was pushing this issue very hard. Many other countries wanted something quite different.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-462	Madam President, I would like There are other measures, as the Minister mentioned. Now I'm going to do something that I never thought would happen: I'm going to read from a motion from the Party Congress of the Social Democrats that I even think is good. It says this: the Baltic Sea, where bottom trawling is permitted, is soon emptied of fish and life. In the same voice, the motion was approved. The sentence reads: The Social Democrats are in favour of a ban on bottom trawling throughout Sweden. Why not suggest it to the Baltic Sea? Why is the Minister not pushing this issue? It has banned bottom trawling in other parts of the world precisely for the recovery of a fish stock. I think that would be an excellent measure.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-464	Madam President, I would like With regard to the issue of bottom trawling, this autumn the government has given the Maritime and Water Authority a mission aimed at evaluating the effects of bottom trawling, mainly in protected areas. This work is under way, and it will be reported to the Government by 30 May 2018. I would like to repeat, however, that quotas are not the target. It is a matter of ensuring that we deal with the issues of cod both in the east and in the west. This also applies to all species in the Baltic Sea and in all the waters that we have in common with the European Union. But that also applies to the waters that we have at national level. We need to deal with this in a long-term and wise way in order to be able to have sustainable fishing and to be able to fish in the future. Here Sweden has had a restrictive line. The opportunity that we have had in the European context is anchored in great political unity in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture and, I would say, in great political agreement also in the European Council.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-467	Madam President, I would like Saila Quicklund has asked me three questions about measures against illegal substances in food supplements. She's asked me. Initially, I would like to say that I share Mrs Quicklund's concern about illegal substances in food supplements. The government has received signals that there are challenges in the public control of food supplements. It is the municipalities that are responsible for the control of food supplements. The control is complex, and in order to achieve a more equivalent control, the Swedish Food Safety Agency, as the central authority for food control, has developed its support for the municipalities in the area of food supplements. The government has also taken a range of measures to achieve a more equivalent and uniform food control in this area. The aim is both to protect consumers and to provide companies with a level playing field throughout the country. There is therefore currently no proposal to transfer public control of food supplements from the municipalities to the Finnish Food Administration. There is no requirement for notification or permission from the Swedish Food Administration to sell food supplements in Sweden. On the other hand, those who manufacture, import and sell food supplements must register with the control authority in the municipality where the activity is carried out. Entrepreneurs who sell dietary supplements online to other entrepreneurs or to final consumers must also report their activities to the control authority of the municipality where the activity takes place. The requirement for prior notification of food supplements constitutes an administrative burden for businesses, and such a system is not deemed to solve the problems of unauthorised substances in food supplements. Those selling such products are unlikely to register or notify their products. Food supplements are food and are regulated in accordance with food law. It is the responsibility of the manufacturer that the products are safe to use and comply with the requirements of food law. The boundary between food supplements and medicines can in some cases be difficult to draw. A general rule is that supplements are not for preventing, relieving or curing diseases. Where a product is marketed with such claims, the product shall be classified as a medicinal product and not as a food. Furthermore, the same substance can be classified as both food and medicinal product depending on the recommended daily dose. It is the Swedish Medical Products Agency that is responsible for assessing whether a product or substance is to be considered a medicinal product. The MPA also conducts supervision of marketing and advertising of medicinal products. Since there are bordering issues in this area, it is important that the control authorities for food and medicinal products have good cooperation. The Swedish Food Safety Agency and the Swedish Medical Products Agency therefore meet regularly to discuss these issues. I therefore see no need to take further action at this stage, but I will follow developments in this area.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-475	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is good that the Minister shares my concern about dangerous food supplements. The Minister also states that the government has received signals on this. That's right. Dangerous food supplements are an issue that I have raised several times in this House, particularly with former Minister of Public Health Gabriel Wikström – but always without concrete action from the minister mentioned. I am really, really concerned that very dangerous preparations are now actually flowing freely into the country completely out of control. It is extremely surprising and serious. I don't understand why the government doesn't take this any more seriously. Medicines have a completely different control, and it is a huge procedure in their production to ensure that they are not harmful. For example, it takes up to ten years to produce a medicine, all so that they do not have severe or dangerous side effects for humans. We can see that, for many years now, the trade has been overflowing with food supplements, and it is difficult to know what we are getting. Many of the products contain substances that make us sick instead of healthy and strong, which is what is stated in the marketing. Zofia Kurowska, State Inspector at the Swedish Food Administration, believes that diet supplements and performance enhancing supplements are most risky and completely dissuade from this type of preparation. She says you shouldn't take the risks. But that the Swedish Food Safety Agency goes out and warns against preparations is no guarantee that they are not on the shelves. It is up to the municipalities, as the Minister knows, to ban individual food supplements, and it is at the municipal level that the analyses of the preparations are carried out. In addition, decisions differ between municipalities, which means that a municipality can sell a preparation while it is prohibited in another municipality. It is therefore necessary that 290 municipalities ban the harmful preparation before it can be withdrawn. Of course, this should be coordinated so that the preparations can be banned in all municipalities. We can see this as a national alarm. How can we stand and watch when we know that these harmful preparations exist? The Swedish Environmental Administration in Stockholm has reviewed a number of herbal supplements. Last year, arsenic was found, heard and amazed, in an Asian preparation. The level found in the preparation may correspond to half of a lethal dose. Analyses have been carried out in Europe to show that herbal supplements have high levels of heavy metals. The Swedish Food Safety Agency also wants to warn that many preparations contain heavy metals. Some supplements also contain the drug substance sildenafil which is really risky if it is combined with certain medicines, which is unknown to many people who use the supplements. Add to this that the content declaration is rarely consistent with the content. My question to the Government is: Why does the Minister not react to the fact that young training individuals, as well as adults and the elderly today, can purchase these dangerous supplements with our knowledge? We know about this, and they can have but for life. How can this happen?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-484	Madam President, I would like As I said in my last speech, I share the interpellier's concern about this. Much is happening in this area, but at the same time the authorities are now taking steps to try to address the problem described by Saila Quicklund in various ways. It should be remembered that food supplements are food and regulated by the Food Act. It is the companies that are responsible for delivering safe products. They also have a responsibility to ensure that the requirements of the Food Act are met. When arsenic and heavy metals are present in the preparations, that responsibility has not been assumed. So these are illegal products. It is very important to remember that it is the municipalities that are the control authorities and responsible for this. They may also introduce a marketing offer for this type of product. The introduction of a marketing offer in one municipality but not in another municipality is not effective, and to avoid this situation efforts have now been made to improve the exchange of information between control authorities. I am very pleased that the Swedish Food Safety Agency has drawn up a proposal to establish a national alert system to ensure that the exchange of information is more effective than it has been in the past. This national warning system has been very well received by municipalities around the country, and I expect that this will make it work much better than before and that at an early stage it will be possible to stop those products that cannot and may not be sold at all as food supplements as they do not comply with the food law. I look forward to this warning system that will be in place in 2018 being able to change the situation for the better.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-489	Madam President, I would like The Minister claims that it is illegal to sell products with heavy metals and arsenic, but the fact is that, despite government measures, such preparations are still freely sold on the market. The Minister also answers that the Swedish Food Administration has developed support for municipalities to deal with this issue. I wonder how it works, and what are the effects of these efforts? According to the Minister's reply, the government has taken a series of measures to achieve more equal and uniform food controls in this area. My question is, how? There is no government proposal to transfer public control of food supplements from the municipalities to the Swedish Food Administration. This is also something that the National Sports Federation's management has pointed out in previous writings. There is therefore a consensus on the need for such measures. Obviously, the handling doesn't work at all. How, then, can we leave this that is so serious without action? That's my question. The Minister knows that there is no requirement for notification or authorisation from the Swedish Food Administration to sell food supplements. It would be an administrative burden, says the Minister in his reply. An administrative burden – we are talking about dangerous preparations that harm people! Those who sell the preparations would probably not register or notify their products, they say. We can compare this to the fact that we need to reduce the speed of a stretch of road due to the risk of accidents but ignore it because we believe that people will still not comply with the speed limit. When did the government start thinking like that? The Swedish Food Administration and the Swedish Medical Products Agency previously carried out a study of food supplements sold on the Swedish-speaking web pages. 30 out of 43 products contained substances that can be harmful to health, toxic and addictive. Some of the products cause liver damage and can affect the nervous system. The Swedish Food Agency warns especially about preparations that contain synephrine, which are similar to the body's stress hormone and can affect heart rhythm and cause serious side effects. Synephrine is found in many of the supplements that claim to increase fat burning. According to the Swedish Food Administration, this is really quacking. Turnover has increased rapidly. Only a few years ago, the industry had a turnover of 2 billion, and today it is 5 billion. It is a large and lucrative market for this in Sweden and the rest of the world. How can we allow, for reasons of public health, the sale of highly dangerous food supplements on the grounds that increased reporting and control would increase the administration of those involved? Would we say the same thing in the pharmaceutical industry? Has the government really understood the seriousness of this? The measures are not enough. We do not see their effects; they are not enough.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-496	Madam President, I would like There are, of course, companies that are rogue. But there are also a lot of companies in this industry who are serious and handle this in a very wise and good way. They are the ones we should not put in a worse position. With regard to the fact that nothing is being done, the international warning system that I mentioned is a new approach to tackling the rogue element in this area. I would also like to stress how important it is that the supervisory authority, that is, the municipalities, has enough resources for this. The legislation provides for the right to full cost recovery for this. It's not that they need to do it with low hourly fees and can't do it. It is important that the municipalities handle it, because they have the opportunity to cover it financially. The Swedish Food Authority has also, within the framework of the food strategy and the action plan we have received, more than 10 million to work with competence-enhancing measures in relation to control. It is also a measure that has come into place. I think it is wrong to say that nothing is being done. Then we'll see if it's enough. I will follow the work and what is happening in this area very closely. It is very possible that I will have to come back with further measures. The Food and Agriculture Authority has addressed the issues, and I think that we are on the right track. This also applies to the control authorities.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-501	Madam President, I would like What the Minister is saying is absolutely right; it is important to point out that there are also serious companies in the industry, which have good products. However, note that 20 - 25 percent of the preparations are directly harmful. The government has a great responsibility to remedy it. I'm worried about developments. I've told you before. I would also like to propose the following measures which I think the government should listen to and take. Sweden, like many other EU countries, should impose requirements on manufacturers and distributors to notify their products to the Swedish Food Safety Agency. And not only the municipalities, but also the Swedish Food Safety Agency, should be able to make a decision about marketing bids for health-related supplements. The MPA should make more consistent use of the Swedish Medicines Act's possibilities of pharmaceutical qualification for more pharmaceutical substances. I also think that the Public Health Institute should take into account the presence of harmful substances in food supplements. And the Swedish Consumer Agency should be more active in the work against recurring and obvious cases of misleading marketing. The proposal is in line with both the international conventions of the Council of Europe and UNESCO, against, for example, doping, to which Sweden is committed. The government must act on these measures. I would like to reiterate that this is a very serious issue for human health. I'd like to call it an emergency. I expect the Minister to take responsibility for developing improvements in this area. I will, of course, follow up the work of the government on this issue. Finally, I would like to thank the Government for the debate. I am sure we will be heard again on this matter.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-509	Madam President, I would like As I have said before, the government is aware of this. We are also concerned about the issues, not least as regards the control of food supplements. That is also why we have taken a series of measures, which I have presented here, which, among other things, the Swedish Food Authority has responsibility for together with the control authorities. I'm not sure that's enough. And I will follow the question. However, we should not forget that most companies in the industry are serious. Their products also comply with the Food Act. They work in a serious way. But there may be a need to take further action. I will follow this closely. I would like to thank the honourable Member for a serious and constructive debate. I would also like to thank you for the proposals that have been made.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-512	Madam President, I would like Maria Malmer Stenergard has asked me how I and the government view the future of Swedish regulated, small-scale and coastal eel fishing and what measures I and the government intend to take in view of the violation of property rights that a possible eel fishing ban would entail for owners and users of age rights. The government's overall objective is that management measures should be decided in line with the objectives and principles of the CFP. As far as fishing opportunities are concerned, the Government therefore considers that it is important to achieve the stock size targets above the maximum sustainable yield level, that the objectives of the reform on landing obligation are made possible and that scientific advice and the precautionary approach form the basis for the decisions. The Commission presented a proposal for a Council Regulation on fishing opportunities in the Western Sea for 2018 on 7 November 2017. Article 12 of the proposal lists a number of prohibited species, of which eel is one. The significance of eel being listed in the article is that it will be prohibited to fish eel over 12 centimetres in all EU's ICES areas and in the Baltic Sea. The Commission's proposals in the Council are now being negotiated. In these negotiations, the Government is in favour of a decision on eel in line with the objectives and principles of the CFP and where scientific advice is the basis for these decisions. I note that the situation of the European eel is extremely alarming, and the government shares the Commission's view that strong measures need to be taken in the near future to save the species, and therefore also the long-term eel fishing. Against this background, the government is in favour of a general eel fishing ban in all EU waters in 2018. The government also considers it important to bring about a comprehensive solution with long-term measures, where responsibility for the eel is handled by the EU as a whole. The government will continue its efforts to conserve the eel stock and achieve the objectives of the EU Eel Recovery Plan and welcomes proposals for new measures from the Commission. Small-scale and coastal fishing is important. But for small-scale eel fishing, there needs to be eel in our waters. As regards the effects of a possible eel fishing ban on ownership, I can see that under the regulations of the Swedish Maritime and Water Authority, fishing for eel in the sea is only permitted if it is carried out with the support of a special authorisation from the authority. So, like other fishing, eel fishing is not free but limited. Both the common fisheries policy and the Swedish fisheries legislation aim, among other things, to limit fishing in the light of the stock situation. Such restrictions may, in the case of fishing activities linked to individual properties, lead to certain restrictions of discretion. The extent to which restrictions of consultation can be permitted in legislation must always be based on a balance between the general interest to be protected and the impact of the measure on the individual.
i-GU1oXv5MwrBaSsL31iRFEK	Madam President, I would like In October this year, the Council of Ministers decided not to follow the Commission's proposal to ban eel fishing in the Baltic Sea. However, as early as 7 November, the Commission presented a new proposal banning eel fishing in EU waters for eels of 12 centimetres or longer. In Sweden we already have a general eel fishing ban with a few exceptions. So we have a very limited and also declining fishing that is estimated to affect the eel stock in the Baltic Sea by about 2%. I fully share the Minister's view that the situation of the European eel is extremely alarming. However, I am not so convinced that a total ban without exception on small-scale fishing would improve the situation of the eel. Politics is rarely simple, and a ban does not always mean that a problem disappears automatically. The eel fish in Sweden have invaluable knowledge of the eel needed for us to understand and protect it better. They have also taken many initiatives to strengthen the eel stock. Through Ålfonden they finance the release of new eel in the Baltic Sea. They also work in Ålakademien to achieve better water quality in the Baltic Sea. If the eel fish were to disappear, great knowledge and important traditions would also be lost. It is for these reasons that Ålarvet on the Åla coast along the Gulf of Hanö in October 2015 was listed as a living cultural heritage under the Unesco Convention on the Protection of Intellectual Heritage. It also means an obligation for Sweden to preserve culture alive. I believe that an exception for limited, coastal fishing with clear restrictions could be combined with a care for the eel so that culture can remain alive. The eel is now threatened by international fishing, by obsolete hydroelectric plants, by seals and by cormorants. The Commission's current proposal would not ban all eel fishing, but would allow the fishing of the smaller eels, i.e. those under 12 centimetres. I find that hard to understand. In Sweden you do not fish eel that is so small. In practice, the Commission's proposal means that there can be no limit to eel as long as it is less than 12 centimetres. Will the government really support such regulation?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-525	Madam President, I would like In order to fish, there must be fish. I've been fishing my whole life. I know what that means, and I also understand the frustration that those who fish eel can feel. I had exactly the same experience in the Torne River when I was fishing. There was a ban on salmon fishing. I just felt that frustration. But today I am happy because the salmon have now returned. Now it can be fished. That is what this issue is about, namely having a long-term eel fishery. If there is no eel, it cannot be fished in the future. We must ensure the stocks. The situation with the eel is alarming. ICES is clear about the serious situation. I understand how those who engage in coastal fishing feel. As far as the Commission's proposal is concerned, I said that we want an overall solution dealing with all the EU's waters. Exactly how it will be handled will be negotiated, and the decisions will be taken in December. It's too early for me to say anything. In these contexts, I will, as usual, anchor Swedish position first in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture and then in the EU Council. We should not forget that when decisions are made they are made in a lump. There will be all the stocks, where the eel is part. This makes the negotiations even more complicated. It is difficult to lock up in the precise management of a stock, which means that the other stocks cannot be affected.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-529	Madam President, I would like The Minister expresses it in such a way that he understands the frustration of the fishermen. But frustration is much greater than that. It's not just about the fish, it's about all of us living in the eel culture that characterizes our entire part of Skåne. It is a frustration for those of us who really want to protect the eel because we are convinced that eel fish are needed to protect eel and eel habitat. Nevertheless, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, and I have great respect for his position. I would also like to thank you for the explanation we received about the process in Europe, and I look forward to the anchoring that will take place in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture. There is also a legal aspect of ownership that I touched upon in my interpellation and which many do not know. Along the Åla coast of Hanöbukten fishing is regulated by old age rights dating back to our Danish time. An old-age right is a very own property with real estate tax. It is as well on top of other properties and stretches a bit out into the sea. It is charged with property tax according to the rules for industrial property. Without eel fishing rights, the property becomes completely worthless. I think that the Minister in that part is unclear in his response to me. He believes that there will be a balance between the extent to which restrictions of consultation can be permitted in legislation. Making a property completely worthless by decision is, in my view, a very drastic measure. If the measure is seen in the light of the fact that the aim is to save the eel, while allowing continued fishing in the rest of Europe on smaller eels, it is difficult to land in the proportionality of the measure. There is an important point which goes hand in hand with the ownership and ownership of old age law. What you own, you care for. We have repeatedly seen this through history. Perhaps the depletion of our seas is the result of our lack of ownership in common waters. As things stand right now, politics is killing the eel culture around us. Since 2007, there has been a general ban on eel fishing, and generational shifts are banned. This means that when current eel fishermen stop fishing, not only eel fishing dies out but also a culture dating back to the 15th century. Traditions are not recorded, but knowledge goes from generation to generation. But the present generation seems to be the last. If the Commission's proposal goes through, eel fishing will disappear at the turn of the year – but not in the rest of Europe as long as you fish eel less than 12 centimetres. This regulation is incomprehensible – if you really protect the eel. Many object that eel fishing itself is a threat to the eel. That is enough of the large-scale fishing that would still be allowed with the Commission's proposal. This is where the problems lie. Today, highly regulated eel fishing on the east coast is estimated to have a 2% impact on eel fishing in the Baltic Sea. This should be compared to the impact of seals, cormorants and hydropower that is significantly greater. Maybe you should start at the right end. Hydropower does not need eel to survive, but eel fish need eel to survive. That's why they take responsibility. They have the knowledge, they protect the aquatic environment and they put eel out. Do we even dare to risk their knowledge being lost? In view of the fact that, unlike in many other countries, Swedish fisheries are an example of compliance with eel management plans, and taking into account the important efforts made by the few remaining commercial fishermen for the conservation of eel, we have come to the conclusion that small coastal fisheries will continue to benefit from a derogation. Does the minister mean it's completely unreasonable?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-538	Madam President, I would like I would like to broaden the discussion. Not only do I understand the fish, but I also understand the tradition of food. This was also the case in the Torne Valley when the bans came. There was an enormous frustration. Fishing was linked to the properties, and the values of the properties fell. There was a lack of advice which we had a great deal of difficulty in understanding, as it is also for eel fishing. But now the salmon are back, and now the property values are rising. I very much hope that it will also be the result for the eel so that it will be possible to fish eel. Thus, cultural heritage and food culture can be safeguarded. It's important. But for this to happen, there must be eel. We have to give the eel a chance. It is clear that it is a very seriously threatened fish stock. In addition, the eel has a long life cycle. It is now a matter of taking the right steps to reverse developments. Exactly where we end up with the proposal in the Commission is difficult to say, but we will of course have a discussion in the Committee on Environment, Agriculture and the European Council. I hope that there we will have a broad political consensus, which we have often had in the past on the issues.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-542	Madam President, I would like Yes, we can see that politics is not always simple. One can certainly disagree on how best to move forward. I am convinced that the eel fish are needed to keep the eels in our sea. Swedish eel fishing is an example of how eel fishing should be handled – it is small-scale and powerfully regulated, and it is practiced by a few fishermen who take real responsibility. I do not think it is important to protect the eel to kill this fishing and at the same time allow large-scale fishing in the rest of Europe. The question is certainly not simple, and the solutions are probably not simple either. I hope that the government will protect the eel and thus the knowledge of our few Swedish eel fishermen. I would like to thank him for the debate and for the Minister's commitment, and I want him to know that there is a standing invitation to meet Hånsa and the other eel fishermen on the east coast of Skåne.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-545	Madam President, I would like I would like to say that I appreciate the discussion we have had on this issue. That is an important issue. It has bearing on a nutrition that has a very long tradition, and I feel a lot for it given the background I have and what has happened in my home environment. It is deeply unfortunate that we have this situation for the eel stock. It's not good. I promise I'll protect the eel. I will protect the eel so that we can have it in the future, so that our children and grandchildren and great-grandchildren can also fish eel and protect that tradition. Thank you for a good debate! We will see and discuss these issues in the Environment and Agriculture Committee next time.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-548	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me to answer three questions concerning the implementation of the Insurance Distribution Directive in Swedish law, which I will shortly be dealing with in turn. Let me first stress, however, that proper and similar regulation of the financial advisory market is an important objective of the government. This requires strengthening customer protection by preventing conflicts of interest and increasing transparency towards customers. The first question concerns the risk of state price regulation of distribution services. Here I want to make it clear that it should continue to be insurance companies and intermediaries that determine the price of the services they offer to their customers. Another thing is that business models that require someone other than the customer to pay the price for the services give rise to conflicts of interest. This is why new legislation is needed to strengthen customer protection by, among other things, banning harmful commissions. The second question concerns how I view the risk of hampering competition and concentrating insurance advice on a few major banks and insurance companies. In this respect, I note that today's advisory market is largely characterised by commission-based sales of financial products. This type of activity is likely to result in customers receiving recommendations to buy the products on which the advisor earns the most money. In addition, commission-based sales are often perceived as free advice by customers, which it is far from being. This in turn also means that it removes the supply and demand for advice that only takes into account the best interests of its customers. The new regulation aims, among other things, to provide good conditions for a new type of independent advisory market to emerge that is completely free from commissions and conflicts of interest. The new regulation thus provides the market with a new category of advice that challenges sales-driven advice and strengthens competition for the benefit of customers. Such services will in particular be able to be provided by operators who do not have their own financial products in their range, which today often characterises smaller insurance intermediaries. Against this background, I see that smaller insurance intermediaries will continue to play an important role in all forms of insurance advice. The third and final question concerns what I think of a regulation that goes beyond the directive and what I think about the criticism of referrals. Let me first state that the Insurance Distribution Directive is a minimum harmonisation directive which leaves a great deal of freedom of choice for Member States to adapt its implementation to the specific challenges of the respective insurance market. In Sweden, Finansinspektionen has in several reports pointed to serious consumer protection risks in the Swedish market for insurance mediation. These shortcomings relate, among other things, to certain commissions, uncertainties regarding the scope of the law and the lack of conditions for effective supervision. I believe that the problems not addressed by the Insurance Distribution Directive should be addressed through national regulations that further strengthen customer protection. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, in its referral, supports the proposals presented to address several of the problems identified. It is a matter of fact that the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has, in several contexts, asked for even stricter rules than those proposed. In the Government Office, work is currently under way on a Council of Law referral. In the context of this work, the impact assessment will be expanded and all the views expressed by the consultation bodies will be taken into account before the government takes its decision. Finally, as regards timing, I note that it follows from the directive that it will be implemented and implemented on 23 February 2018. This, of course, poses significant challenges both for the remaining legislative process and, not least, for insurance distributors who will adapt their activities to the new rules. So, as I have already mentioned, work is under way on producing a Council of Law referral. Furthermore, the European Parliament and Sweden, together with a number of other Member States within the Council, have promoted a postponement of the date of implementation and application and called on the Commission to postpone that date. Unfortunately, it is still too early to say whether such a postponement will occur. Against this background, work will continue to develop a legislative referral as quickly as possible. However, the date of entry into force of the new rules in Swedish law will have to be postponed until July 2018.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-560	Madam President, I would like If you read the title of this debate, you can easily get the impression that this is something technical that does not affect people in general to any significant extent. But that's not the case. It is something that is certainly technical but that can have a major impact on how the insurance market works and what our car insurance, life insurance and home insurance will look like. The background is that during the last ten years, in particular, we have been able to see major problems linked to the advisory activities. Like the Minister, we have been able to see advisory companies that are more interested in making money themselves than in giving good advice to customers. We have been able to see major problems with hidden charges that affect the customer. Against this background, it is positive that a few years ago the EU delivered a directive, the MiFID directive, as regulated financial products, and is now delivering the IDD directive, which is to address the insurance market. In large part, the directives are good. The problems I am raising with this debate are that in implementing this directive, the government has come up with a first draft, a memo, which goes much further than the directive and where there are a number of very serious problems. There are many things I could mention about it, but there are two things in particular that I would like to mention. Firstly, there are major problems of predictability and legal certainty linked to the proposals in the first government draft that we have seen. Not least, there is a lack of clear impact assessments on what these proposals would mean. It is not something that only I, as an opposition politician, stand here and say, but it is something that is being brought forward by the Bar Association, the Competition Authority, the regulators, the Sparbankens Riksförbund and the Swedish insurance industry. There are several proposals that boil down to being unclear about how to regulate this in law and instead give free rein to the Financial Supervisory Authority. It is usually said that land should be built by law. There is something very wise in that proverb. Instead, giving authorities very loose rein and opportunities to change regulations a little at their discretion is, in principle, problematic and creates unpredictability for the market. Secondly, the initial proposals put forward by the government risk creating major competition and diversity problems. After all, an insurance company can sell through its own channels – Trygg-Hansa, for example, can advertise its products – or do so via an insurance agency. The insurance intermediaries have a very important function, not least because they make it easier for new entrants to enter the market. If a large French insurance company, such as Générale, wants to enter the Swedish market, it is problematic if you have to spend billions on investing in your own distribution channels, marketing and the like. Thanks to the fact that we have companies like Insplanet, Compricer and the like, which enable new players to enter the market and increase competition and diversity in the product range, we can have a better functioning market. If you regulate details in the way this proposal entails, you risk pulling the carpet away.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-568	Madam President, I would like It is a bit difficult to get Fredrik Schultes's introduction together with the conclusion of his speech. First he says that this is too comprehensive and unclear regulation, and then he concludes by saying that it is too detailed proposals in the memo. Somewhere you have to decide what the problem really is. The government's view is that we need similar regulation for similar services on the market. We have a situation where financial services can be provided in different forms. They can be carried out by banks and securities institutions, which can provide, for example, savings services. You can save for your pension by putting the money into an investment savings account or similar. It can also be done in insurance form. The result may be similar, but there are completely different actors who carry out the management. It often creates problems in a market if there is different regulation for different operators performing similar services. This is what the government is trying to avoid. As Fredrik Schulte also notes in his speech, we have already introduced regulation governing the securities market and advice on funds. The ambition of the government is that we should have a similar regulation that also governs insurance mediation and the insurance side of the financial markets. This is also a little bit the idea of the Commission's consumer protection package, which was presented in 2012. It referred to both the Ucit Directive, which deals with advice on funds, MiFID II, which deals with financial instruments, and IDD, which deals with insurance distribution. This is what the government is trying to deal with in the proposal that exists, and we are also writing a Council of Law referral to deal with these problems. It is easy to address the consequences of proposals, but it is also necessary to take into account the consequences of not having regulation of the market and the impact it has on the interests of consumers, not least. This is a market in which we can see that there have been obvious and quite major problems for consumers. Many consumers can testify that they have not received products that are well suited to their own economy. There are examples of pensioners who have been sold-in securities products that will deliver returns in decades to come and are thus obviously unsuitable for the economy of those people. We have also had problems with insurance distributors who have had a rather unserious business and have received sanctions from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, but before the sanctions come into force you withdraw your permit and can thus avoid them. This type of problem, which leads to distortions in the market and makes it not work and undermines customer protection for us consumers, we believe from the government that we need to deal with. We simply need a regulatory framework that provides better protection for us consumers in the financial markets, whether we turn to a bank or to an insurance undertaking. Somewhere you come to the question: What is Fredrik Schultes's alternative? If you are not going to regulate, is the alternative of completely banning commissions? It is clear that it is extremely simple and very clear and transparent, but it would, if anything, lead to the kind of consequences that Fredrik Schulte raises: It would benefit large players with their own distribution network but hit hard on other players in the Swedish market. If this is not the alternative, is it not to regulate the market at all, i.e. to continue to accept the abuses that clearly prevail in the Swedish insurance market and that, for example, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has lifted up on a number of occasions? If you do not like any of those options, you need to discuss trying to find a regulation that will give the insurance market conditions similar to those of the securities market, for example. The regulation proposed by the investigation, which we are now working on in the legislative referral, is precisely that. But I would like to hear what Fredrik Schultes's alternative is.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-579	Madam President, I would like I usually think that Per Bolund is very factual, but now it gets a little messy. What's my option? My alternative is the European directive. There we have a good and basically comprehensive regulation of how to deal with these problems in the market. My criticism is about how the further steps to implement the directive that the government now describes in its first draft should look like. That's where the shoe squeezes. Let us start with the European directive, I think. Then you can expand it if there are possible shortcomings. The EU Directive states that advice must increase the value of the customer. So let us start with this rather than go further and regulate in detail. I was asked by Per Bolund whether I can make up my mind – do I think the proposals from the government that we have seen are too vague or too detailed regulation? That is precisely the problem: nobody knows. Had we had clear legislative proposals on what the regulation would look like, I would have been able to comment on whether it is too detailed or too loose. The problem is that we are now giving free rein to the Financial Supervisory Authority. This is a democratic problem. This is, in principle, the wrong way to proceed. You cannot regulate by giving free rein to an authority. This type of regulation and all kinds of laws must be clearly defined. Then I agree with the statement made by Per Bolund about the overlap between the purely financial services and the insurance sector, where there are clear elements of savings. In this respect, it is important that there are similar rules. On this point, we are in complete agreement. What the Minister is missing, however, and which has not least been missed in the memo that has been presented, is that there is also a great diversity in the insurance market. Life insurance is one thing, but car insurance is something completely different. As far as life insurance is concerned, we have seen a high degree of self-regulation. Many of the proposals presented by the government will be quite superfluous, for from the turn of the year there will no longer be so-called up-front commissions for life insurance. However, in the car insurance market, where there is a low consumer protection risk, high skill levels and low complaint rates, where it is about quite little money and is easy for the customer to change insurance, up-front commissions are not a problem. So the risk is that one tries to overcome a non-existent problem on the life insurance side and causes it for the non-life insurance side, where these problems have never existed. This is precisely what is problematic: there are no clear impact assessments, it is too sweeping and too much power is being sent to the Financial Supervisory Authority. So now the insurance industry gets to bite on the nails and think about how Finansinspektionen will act. This is not a sound way of legislating and regulating a market. Not only do I think so, but the criticism from the consultation round is massive.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-588	Madam President, I would like First of all, I can see that we have different views on the European directive. Fredrik Schultes's view is that if we only implement it, we will have a comprehensive regulation that creates an adequate level of consumer protection in the Swedish insurance market. It is not my assessment and that of the government, nor is it the assessment that has been made by many heavy consultation bodies. If the insurance market has been followed and the reporting that has been in recent years on the obvious problems of rogue operators and advice, which in many cases are very poorly adapted for customers, I think it is difficult to land in that conclusion. The fact that this is a minimum regulation directive and that it also argues that there are so many different conditions in different countries, the directive also shows that different legislation is needed in different countries in order to arrive at an adequate level of consumer protection and protection of consumer interests. This is also what is now happening in country by country: regulations and legislation are adapted to the national circumstances. In Sweden there are a lot of challenges. We have another form of savings structure. Swedish consumers choose insurance solutions for their savings in many cases. In other countries, things look different. It is a bit strange when, as I think Fredrik Schulte does, mosquitoes are sifted and camels are swallowed. We have already had proposals in the past concerning the regulation of other parts of the financial market, such as MiFID, which relate to securities regulation. There we have given Finansinspektionen the opportunity to, for example, determine what is a healthy form of commission and what is a commission that is to the detriment of the customer or not. It was obviously acceptable then. At the time, it was obviously not a big enough problem for the proposal to be dropped or for it to be said that it is too arbitrary in the eyes of Fredrik Schultes and the Moderates. But now, when you come to the insurance side, it's obviously different. Then it's a completely different story. This is precisely the problem that I am concerned about, that is to say that we have different regulations for parts of the financial markets that perform similar services and create what is called regulatory arbitrage in financial terms. There may be uneven conditions of competition, quite simply. I think it would be unfortunate to land in that position. I hope that Fredrik Schulte and the Moderates will reflect one more lap. Now we have a chance to discuss and analyse further. There will also be a legislative referral in the near future. Then we will be able to do an analysis and continue the preparation and look at the referral points that come in. We always do that in the Government Office. We protect and care for the views that come in, because we think it is valuable to have a thorough consultation and take in the views of different stakeholders. However, the fact that we would land in a solution in which we end up with completely different forms of regulation for two parts of the financial market that have similar aims and provide similar services would, in my view, be genuinely unfortunate. I also do not really share Fredrik Schultes's analysis of the insurance market, that it is pure in o equal drain pipes and that they are easily separated from each other, so that you can say that one part should be regulated in one way and the other part in another. I believe that this would lead to a confusion and a rather opaque market that would not be of benefit to consumers or to the companies that are the performers. I think it would be preferable if a uniform regulation of the insurance market could be found. Both Swedish legislation and the EU directive are basically about creating greater security for us consumers, that is, we get the services that are actually best suited to our needs and not the services that are best suited to the advisors' wallets, the services where you get the highest brokerage commission. In that case, it is an agency that is not in the best interests of the customer.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-597	Madam President, I would like Everyone agrees that there are regulatory problems and that they must be addressed by regulation. Basically, we have the MiFID directive, which, as far as I know, everyone in this Parliament can support it. The question then is: Should you already, at an early stage, risk giving too far-reaching tools to Finansinspektionen, which will pull away the carpet for large parts of the insurance industry. I'm critical of that. When we discussed this issue one or two years ago, I intervened with the Minister on the implementation of the MiFID Directive. Then commission bans were on the agenda, and Per Bolund argued in a very wise way that a commission ban would risk beating away the legs of competition, and it would be very difficult for new entrants to enter the market. In principle, it would be difficult for the whole of the brokering industry to survive, and we would have a situation in which, instead of selling insurance through intermediaries, companies go out and give bad conditions to customers directly – so they do not go through intermediaries. Then you can ask yourself what you have actually achieved. Now, in a worrying way, it seems that the Minister intends to adopt a line that regulates too far. There are consequences. I think the IDD Directive is a good one. It clearly states that advice must be valuable. Then I think it is up to the judiciary to make decisions in individual cases and allow legislation to develop organically, rather than giving far-reaching tools to the Financial Supervisory Authority to regulate arbitrarily.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-602	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Fredrik Schulte, for a good and important debate! I hope that we can continue this discussion, because it is very important both for the insurance industry and for all of us who are customers of insurance companies and will do new business in the future. I think that one should be very careful to draw certain conclusions from the regulation and especially to turn on the warning drum so that it would dramatically reverse the market or knock out many players, as it seems to suggest in the interpellation. Fredrik Schulte raises the issue of a ban on commissions. There is a reason why the government has not landed in a commission ban. There were strong forces that wanted to go all the way and get there. But we do not think that the alternative is to have an unregulated or clearly under-regulated market, because it does not create the security that consumers need. We need to take the necessary steps to secure a well-functioning market with serious players working for the best interests of our customers. Fredrik Schulte highlights the judiciary as an alternative. If Finansinspektionen decides on a matter, people always have the opportunity to take the matter to court in order to have it reviewed. Then we get the very court decisions that Fredrik Schulte is looking for. However, if you want to take a detour and get past the fact that Finansinspektionen has supervision and investigates the cases, you will not get to any court proceedings in the end. I am convinced that we need to find a regulation that is well suited for us customers, which gives us the security we need and ensures that the insurance intermediaries – there are many good such businesses today – are clearly acting for the best interests of our customers, so that we get away from the disadvantages that exist on the Swedish market today. Unfortunately, they are too big and too clear. None of us should accept that in the end.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-606	Madam President, I would like Anette Åkesson has asked how the Minister of Finance addresses the problem of targeted state grants and whether the Minister of Finance intends to carry out impact assessments before any future new targeted state grants are introduced to ensure that these help and do not spoil the municipalities and county councils. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Government is aware of the problem raised by the targeted state grants by Sweden's municipalities and county councils, SKL, among others. Statskontoret's report State control of municipalities makes the assessment that central government control of municipalities has increased in scope, complexity and degree of detail in recent decades. New forms of governance have been created and governance through targeted government grants has increased. The Government believes that the general state grants should be the starting point when the state distributes money to the municipal sector. However, there are times when targeted grants are appropriate, and the government sees a continued need to target funds to specific areas of activity. However, given that targeted state grants represent a large and over time increasing part of the government's governance of the local government sector, the government has begun work to achieve a more strategic and effective use of targeted state grants. This may involve transferring targeted state grants to the general grant and simplifying existing targeted grants to the extent appropriate. The Government is continuously working to collect information about all targeted grants to identify development areas. As part of the government's improved school governance, a review is also needed to, for example, pool or simplify targeted state grants in the field of education. Work on this has begun, and it is the Government's ambition that the municipalities should be able to plan their operations according to the changed conditions that changes can result in. It is important for the government that municipalities and county councils are given the best planning conditions possible. During this term of office, the government has seen the needs of the local government sector and has also provided large general contributions to municipalities and county councils to facilitate their ability to offer all citizens a good quality welfare. Even in the budget proposal that we submitted to Parliament in September, major general contributions to the sector have been announced for the next parliamentary term. The addition is permanent, and in 2019 the sector will receive SEK 5 billion and in 2020 another SEK 5 billion. The government's starting point when state grants to municipalities and county councils are being prepared in the future is general grants supplemented by targeted grants in those cases where it is most appropriate. At the same time, it is the Government's ambition that new targeted grants should have broad applications within which there is room for local needs adaptation. Anette Åkesson's second question concerns impact assessments for decisions on new targeted grants. The process of deciding on a targeted grant is the responsibility of each individual minister, and this minister is also best placed to respond to this, as it may differ between different contributions in different areas. It is not uncommon for grants decided by the Government and the Riksdag to be evaluated by, for example, Statskontoret or reviewed in government investigations. In 2016, the investment in staffing in care for the elderly and the career reform for teachers were evaluated. There is also a study that is currently looking at grants in the area of skills development. Audits of the Government's targeted contributions are also made by other actors, including the Swedish National Audit Office.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-614	Madam President, I would like At first, I would like to thank the Government for its answer. It is gratifying that the Minister for Civil Affairs shares my view and the view of many others: that, as a rule, targeted state grants are not the best way for the state to enter into and regulate in detail the activities for which municipalities and county councils are responsible. It is also positive that the government has started work to achieve a more strategic and effective use of the targeted contributions and simplification. The problem is, with all due respect, that the Secretary of State said quite exactly the same thing in our interpellation debate two years ago. And in February 2016, together with the Minister for Finance, he wrote a debate article on how to reduce the level of detail management of welfare. But what has happened since then? Every year since then, the government has increased the targeted state subsidies, both in number and in sum. When we stood in these speaking chairs in December 2015, there were 80 targeted state grants for municipalities and county councils to apply for. According to the latest financial report from Sweden's Municipalities and Landsting, SKL, they are now up to 130. Then you should know that it is associated with work to understand the different conditions and to apply. It is a work that, not least for smaller municipalities, can be so overpowering that they refrain. At the same time, the targeted state grants may have created expectations for the municipality's residents, although the specific problems that the targeted state grants are intended to solve do not even exist in the individual municipality. So there have been 130 state subsidies instead of 80 in just two years. That is an increase of just over 60% in number. But the scope has also increased. Between 2012 and 2018, the targeted grants have increased by 60 percent in real terms, to a total of SEK 44 billion. At the same time, the general state grants, which in 2018 are estimated to amount to SEK 117 billion, according to SKL have in principle remained unchanged. Of course, developments started in 2014, but it is the current government that is responsible for the dramatic increase in numbers and amounts, despite the fact that it has obviously been well aware of the disadvantages for several years. That each individual minister is responsible for the process prior to decisions on targeted state subsidies may have happened. However, the increase in recent years has occurred in so many areas that it must be considered systematic. Moreover, the question is whether it is even relevant. The Government is responsible, and the consequences strike against the same municipalities and county councils. I have two further questions: How is it that the number of targeted state subsidies and their sum has increased dramatically every year with the Social Democratic and Environmental Party Government, even though it claims that it does not want to do so? After all, it is the government that is presenting the budget proposals. Can the Government develop how it comes about, and also develop the importance of, that the Government is paying for general contributions to municipalities and county councils in the budget but that it does not affect the level in real terms? According to SKL, it has remained unchanged for several years.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-624	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anette Åkesson, for the interpellation, for the post and for the involvement in the municipal sector! We share that commitment. I am convinced that we need to work much more in both the Government and the Riksdag to understand the reality that Sweden's municipalities and county councils handle daily and to adapt legislation, financing and governance to the conditions of the local government sector. This is long-term work. It will require many different evaluations and measures to give Sweden's municipalities the right conditions. There is also a balance of interests here that needs to be done. We have an interest in being able to target resources to specific sectors. We, on the part of national politics, have an interest in ensuring equivalence in the country, which to some extent requires the management of welfare financing and management mechanisms internally in the operations. At the same time, however, we have an interest in giving municipalities and county councils room for manoeuvre to adapt their activities to local and regional needs. It is a balance of interests and a balance that is not always easy. What is good about government policy is that we believe in increased resources for the local government sector. Substantial efforts have also been made with regard to the general contributions to the local government sector. This money has been used to maintain the quality and level of public welfare. They have also made investments possible. We now see, among other things, that municipalities take greater responsibility for housing construction and general investments related to municipal services. That's good. It's good for welfare. But of course we have also had the development described by Anette Åkesson, which has been about strengthening the resources of the targeted state grants. Many of these contributions are needed. We need to ensure that various sectors of municipal activity are given the resources to offer citizens an equal level of well-being. But there are definitely challenges. It is against this background that the government has started work to first map the government's governance of the local government sector with the help of the data provided by Statskontoret. Now we have also entered the phase where we work with targeted state grants, not least in the field of education, where we have a large number of targeted state grants. There is a need to pool contributions but also to simplify. It is not satisfactory as it looks today. I would like to emphasise this. We have too many targeted state subsidies that are administratively burdensome and which govern in a degree of detail that does not give municipalities the right room for manoeuvre. There is still some work to be done, which we must do together with the relevant departments. That work and that process are in progress, as I said. Close dialogue with the local government sector will also be required. Therefore, we have had a dialogue with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. Representatives of different parts of the Ministry of Finance, together with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, are trying to identify where the needs are greatest and where we need to put the most energy in terms of simplifications and improvements of state grants. We will be able to see some effects in the coming year. But it will, of course, be an issue that will not be resolved in one year, but will require long-term work on government governance of the local government sector.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-631	Madam President, I would like Yeah, that was two years ago. I still think that a little too little has happened during this time. However, I am pleased that the Minister for Civil Affairs considers the situation to be unsatisfactory and continues the work in that respect. SKL's latest financial report, which I discussed earlier, gives a number of examples of what it actually looks like about the targeted state grants. These are examples from school, health care, elderly care and social care for children and young people, i.e. from several areas and activities within municipalities and county councils, and these are partly provocative examples. When it comes to school, the National Agency for Education has even posted a state grant calendar to help municipalities and free schools keep track of the total 62 different state grants available for the school area – 62, to compare with the total of 80 targeted state grants that existed for all areas when we stood here two years ago. At the time, the government considered it problematic for many, and he had begun work for a reduction. I was going to give an example from school, without a political stance on the area itself. The example is state grants for smaller groups of children in preschool. In the first year, the contribution was heavily under-utilised because the decision was too late and the information was insufficient. After an extensive information campaign, more municipalities applied. This helped the Swedish National Agency for Education to start prioritising the applicants. Prior to the 2016/17 academic year, pre-schools with the largest children's groups and the lowest staffing density were prioritised. Perhaps not illogical, one might think, according to what the state grant was aimed at. The following year, i.e. 2017/18, priority was given instead to preschools in areas with difficult conditions, where special efforts are needed to improve the quality of education. This meant that several preschools were no longer eligible for grants and therefore had to change in a short time – from June when the decision was taken to August when the activities started – and that the work started suddenly had to be completed. In addition, the application and decision is based on forecasts of the size of the children's group of each preschool as of 15 October of the previous year. The state grant thus aims at long-term work to change the structure of preschools, but the state's handling with annual applications and changing criteria for allocation creates uncertainty and short-termness. Other problems that SKL points to are that the focus is moved from the whole and that it creates uncertainty and increased costs. The consequences of the targeted state grants may be that municipalities may themselves enter and continue to fund an activity that they might not have intended to invest in, that municipalities may have increased future pension costs that are not covered by state grants and that state subsidies are directed towards the wrong problems. Increased staff density may not be the solution at all, but it would be better to work smarter with the staff you have, perhaps using new technologies. The problems in municipalities and county councils are different. The targeted state grants will eventually run out, and there will be long-term higher operating costs. All this goes against the way Sweden is organized, with strong municipal self-government. It also goes against the needs of municipalities and county councils to work to meet future challenges in the best way. Does the Government consider that the above examples show the best way to use tax funds?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-642	Madam President, I would like I'll give you a direct answer: no. We have challenges. That's why the government has started the work. This is why we work together with the Ministry of Education to simplify targeted state grants in the field of education. This is why there is also a need to continuously evaluate the effects of the government's governance of the local government sector. This is most evident in the field of education. Since the municipalisation of the Swedish school, we have also had a lot of challenges in terms of the governance of school activities that were not least evaluated and channeled by the School Commission. This will require a change of attitude on the part of the government. This will require greater responsibility on the part of the state in certain areas of school governance, but also, of course, simplification and improvement of funding arrangements within the education system. This will have to be a priority for the coming year. There's no doubt about it. We are having a continuous discussion on this, not only with Swedish Municipalities and County Councils, but also with individual municipalities, and one aspect that I would like to highlight in this discussion is how the targeted state subsidies that are administratively burdensome affect the small municipalities' ability to participate in state funds. There is a risk that it will create an imbalance in the system whereby the municipalities with the least opportunities and the least resources to apply for funds are disadvantaged, and that is not really the idea of the efforts made by the government and parliament. So there is still a great deal of work to be done. Nevertheless, I am pleased that we have been able to take important steps in terms of increasing the overall contribution to the local government sector, and I am very pleased that in the 2018 budget proposal, we also announced increased resources in the general contributions to the local government sector in the coming years. It's important. This must take precedence over tax cuts. We must continue to invest in welfare, but it is clear that the content and design of the contributions are important here, and we will focus on this.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-647	Madam President, I would like We agree that it is important to invest in welfare. The Alliance government could show that tax revenue could be increased to welfare by reducing taxes. We're looking at that part a little differently. Municipalities and county councils face major challenges in the coming years. I know that the Secretary of State is also well aware of that. These challenges are linked to the demographic structure, which affects both the dependency ratio and the ability to supply skills, but also to other trends such as urbanisation, globalisation and digitalisation. The fact that the state then makes it difficult for the municipalities and county councils to work effectively through increased bureaucracy and by controlling in detail without knowledge of the local conditions adds further weight to the burden. We seem to agree on that. This creates uncertainty and promotes short-termism rather than the long-term perspective that is necessary. This also means that tax money is not being used in the best possible way. Therefore, the massively increased targeted state subsidies of the present government are a waste of resources that affects us all. I am surprised that the present government is working so dramatically against what it says it wants to achieve. In this case, I can only regret it and hope for improvement. Thank you very much for the debate.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-652	Madam President, I would like Thank you once again, Anette Åkesson, for the debate and for the commitment to this issue! We will have to work much more together on these issues. Things are happening in the government. Things are happening in Parliament. However, there are still a lot of obstacles on the way to better governance of the local government sector. Nevertheless, I choose to see this discussion and debate as a positive step in improving conditions in the local government sector. It will require close cooperation between the Riksdag, the Government and the Swedish Municipalities and County Council to improve governance, and it is important that these signals come from the Riksdag. Sometimes you see disturbing signals from some parliamentary parties who want to see even more detailed control and targeted state subsidies, but what Anette Åkesson has presented in this discussion also shows the importance of us having a discussion about the state's governance of the local government sector. I think it is important that the state should actually also evaluate the government's policy in this area. It is good that we have a discussion and a critical review of the impact of targeted state subsidies. I think it makes politics better from all perspectives, so I would like to thank you for the discussion.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-657	Madam President, I would like Ola Johansson has asked me if it was my intention and the government's intention during the visit to the Passive House Centre on 16 September 2016 that the operation there only a year later, through the construction of the procurement, would be closed down. In the 2017 budget bill, the Government invested SEK 10 million in setting up an information centre for sustainable construction. This was presented during a visit to the Passive House Centre in Alingsås. The Passive House Centre, which is financed by the municipality of Alingsås and the Västra Götaland region, has for many years promoted energy-efficient construction, including through information about the technology of building passive houses. But there are also other actors who have built up various forms of information activities to promote energy efficiency and sustainability. Therefore, Boverket was commissioned to open up the award of the service through procurement, and this time it was won by Svensk Byggtjänst. During the autumn, the municipality of Alingsås and the Västra Götaland region decided to phase out the Passive House Centre with the motive that its purpose, namely to disseminate knowledge about energy-efficient construction, has been achieved. The Government has no reason to comment either on Boverket's procurement or on the decision to phase out the Passive House Centre that Alingsås Municipality and Västra Götaland Region have taken. However, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the strong commitment of the Passive House Centre to sustainable construction, which I believe has played a major role in driving development forward. The Government is now investing SEK 10 million a year in a national information centre to promote energy efficient construction and renovation, the use of sustainable materials and low climate impact. The information centre will be run by Svensk Byggtjänst, and through them additional actors will be associated with the initiative. This is good for Sweden and for sustainable construction.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-663	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Peter Eriksson, for your answer! I will admit that the question is a tricky one. Of course, the government has not intended to close down such a well-established and functioning operation as the Passive House Centre in Alingsås. But it is not for nothing that will happen. The Minister chooses in his answer to read out what they wrote on their website on 4 October this year: They're winding up the business. The Center Party, like the government, has had in its budget the establishment of a national energy-efficient building centre. We do, of course, because we believe that this knowledge will be needed, especially now that near-zero energy buildings are to be implemented with new building rules and energy requirements and at the same time we are experiencing the worst living crisis in manna memory. There are 600 000 homes missing. There is also an extensive renovation need in the million-programme buildings. We see a risk that housing construction will turn downwards and the reasons for renovating will be reduced with more complicated rules. We have no reason to question the competence that the Swedish Construction Service will possess when it starts in 2018. The difference is that the organisation that Peter Eriksson visited in September 2016 to present his budget news ever since 2008 has built its business on exactly the kind of advice that the government gave Boverket in February this year to act. The minister's choice of place to present his initiative was surely right from what he wanted to achieve with his initiative and wanted to convey. I would have done the same. Using an already existing business with a good reputation and stable public ownership structure with the municipality of Alingsås and the Västra Götaland region as a model ensures continuity and stability. They have already financed the business with SEK 5 million annually and could perhaps continue with it. Unfortunately, it stopped there – with a move. A tender was then set up in such a way that the owners, the municipality, considered that it would not be possible to submit a bid on behalf of the Passive House Centre, since the requirement for co-financing would be contrary to the Competition Act when an activity supported by public funds would enter and operate in a private market. The question you should ask yourself is: how did the Minister of Housing choose Alingsås if it was his intention and the Government's intention to allow a design to act that made it impossible for an operator with public ownership to submit tenders and be able to contribute co-financing from the owners? This was the result when the government released control of the process, something that Peter Eriksson does not feel he is responsible for. He now refers to the press release from the Passive House Centre that came just two days after the Swedish Construction Service on its website announced that they had received the assignment. The press release said about the procurement that, as it was planned, it is contrary to the company's articles of association, the rules of the Competition Act and the Public Procurement Act. Madam President, I would like I rephrase the question a little and put it instead in the following way: Was it the impression of the Minister for Housing, when he visited the Passive House Centre Västra Götaland on 16 September, that it was an activity that felt that it had achieved its overall goals and was therefore ready to lay down and lay off its staff of twelve people?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-672	Madam President, I would like I think that the Passive House Centre in Alingsås has been an excellent activity that has contributed to increased knowledge in Sweden and has spread information on these issues. I appreciate Ola Johansson's involvement in this. It is incredibly important that we continue to receive broad information on how to use our resources when building in a way that reduces climate emissions. We must also use the construction process itself, which is another important part. Its climate impact is sometimes forgotten when we discuss energy issues. This is an area where we are even more committed today than before and are investing resources to develop systems and methods to manage this. In the case of passive houses, or low energy housing, there has actually been something of a boom in the area. A relatively large number of these are being built today. A variety of techniques are used to do so. The various companies that build them use materials and methods that vary to a large extent. In this sense, one can probably say that the wording of the Passive House Centre is correct; a lot has happened in this area, and today passive houses are being built to a large extent. This applies, in particular, to the use of state investment aid. In them there is an energy bonus that means that, if you get it, you are down to the levels of energy use in the operation of the houses that make it count as passive houses or something close to it. So there's a lot going on. I find the development of several actors acting in this area interesting, but I regret that the Passive House Centre was not involved in applying for this money. Maybe that would have been possible. But it was probably not possible based on the construction that existed in terms of funding. This has to do with the issue being brought to the fore. This makes it more difficult to use other public funds as counter-financing.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-677	Madam President, I would like It sounds like we have a funeral atmosphere here in the hall. Maybe that's a shame. But it actually feels that way. It is heavy for a person like me, and perhaps even the Minister for Housing, who has visited this business and seen the quality it represents. The fact is, the Minister of Housing, that they were unable to tender because of how the procurement was rigged. My picture is that when the Minister of Housing was there they lived in the belief that there was a chance of getting the assignment through a construction that could enable even fully owned municipal companies to participate without breaking competition laws. During the spring they had just produced a prospectus entitled Proposals for collaboration within a national information centre with the aim of minimising energy consumption and environmental impact from buildings. I've got it with me here. There, Passive House Centre Västra Götaland and Energy offices Sweden state that they are two established organisations that together are prepared to build an information centre. They were therefore prepared to shoulder their responsibilities and had great hopes, not least since the minister honored Alingsås with his visit to say that he intended to realise their idea and that 10 million had been set aside for this annually in the 2017 budget bill. Now be honest, Peter Eriksson, and tell me the truth: We had an idea, and it was good. Unfortunately, we lost control of the process and thus disappointed many people. We regret that this unique competence, which has been built up over ten years, will now be fragmented. This was not my intention when I visited the Passive House Centre on September 10, 2016. I apologize for this. While being self-critical, there is perhaps also reason to consider what could have been done differently, so that even publicly owned operators could have participated without their owners the municipality and the region being forced to risk breaking the law. I've been following the Passive House Center for as many years as there have been. I have seen how the concept of compact houses has been developed, a climate-smart version of Attefallshusen. They have participated in renovations to passive house standards, including the old million-dollar program area Brogården in Alingsås. It has supported other municipal housing companies, such as Eksta in my own municipality of residence Kungsbacka, as well as educated – arranged study trips and held seminars. Twelve employees will be dissipated. But you will surely be resurrected in some other context. My point is to point out the government's search for impact and its lack of responsibility through the process. This has led to a questionable management of skills, knowledge and experience in such an important area. The construction processes and their climate efficiency are another important issue that we have reason to come back to.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-685	Madam President, I would like This discussion on how to work with low-energy buildings and also the construction process, as I mentioned earlier, will certainly continue. I believe that the Swedish Construction Service will do an excellent job in this area in the future. It was not that Passive House Centre was the only centre of competence with knowledge in this field. There was also a knowledge centre in Lund in the same area, and it is also located in other parts of Sweden. I believe that there are good opportunities to continue to develop strong knowledge in Swedish industry and industry, so that we can continue to be strong both in Sweden and internationally and ensure that we have low energy emissions and little climate impact from the construction. I have received several different explanations as to why they did not apply and did not want to participate in this procurement by the Passive House Centre. The one Ola Johansson gives is not the only one.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-688	Madam President, I would like Little unexpectedly, we did not hear any consent by mistake during the last speech either, and we may not be able to expect that either. Peter Eriksson states that there are several different explanations, and it is possible that this is the case, but municipal and public activities are constantly at risk of being tested according to the conditions under which the public operator has to act. The actual visit to the Passive House Centre – this is the point of my question – was made to present an idea in a business that lived in faith and the assurance that at least on equal terms one could participate in this procurement, which turned out to be impossible. If there are different explanations for this, they will certainly be able to apply in the specific conditions that apply to publicly owned activities and companies like this. In terms of collaboration, the Minister mentioned Lund, which I imagine is included in the collaboration part of the Swedish Construction Service. It was, of course, part of the government decision, as well as the demand for some form of co-financing. But the problem was the procurement, which could have been done in a different way through other actors and in such a way that the activity visited by the Minister for Housing could have been involved in the procurement. I would therefore like to thank you for allowing me to put the interpellation and for allowing us to discuss it. I hope and believe that the operations started with the wings of Svensk Byggtjänst will work well once it has been built up and that the people who have worked at the Passive House Centre will have the opportunity to contribute in some way to a sustainable society and energy efficient buildings.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-692	Madam President, I would like I thank Ola Johansson for that. I hope that Ola Johansson will continue to show commitment to these issues in the future. I think that we both think it is important that we get a workable activity in this area in Sweden. I don't think there's any reason why Ola calls a funeral mood either. I was just recently in Alingsås and looked at a newly built house with very low energy values corresponding to passive houses – there are different definitions of this. It was a house built on the basis of what I mentioned – investment support and the bonus that you can get there. It is a very nice residential area that I can recommend that Ola go and watch. Among other things, a pensioner couple showed up their new apartment, which they could get at a completely reasonable rental cost.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-694	Madam President, I would like Mats Green has asked me whether I and the government have changed our previous line on the issue of social housing in Sweden and whether we intend to pursue this new housing social line. If that were the case, Mats Green wonders what measures I intend to take and how I and the government intend to ensure that these are implemented in practice. The question is posed in the light of an article in the newspaper Dagens Industri. I would like to begin by clarifying my statement in the article. What I said and say is that if we cannot ensure that there are housing for everyone with today's model, we may need to review other systems. The government has not changed its previous line on the issue of social housing in Sweden. We work for a general housing policy where everyone should have the opportunity to have a home. In order to increase the range of rental apartments with reasonable rent, the Government has, among other things, introduced investment aid. So far, investment aid has been granted for more than 10 000 rental rights that a wider group of households has, or will have, the opportunity to request. The municipalities, which have housing responsibility, are actively working to build new housing and develop different systems to offer housing to all their residents. We should also remember that a lot is currently being built in Sweden. There are levels of construction that Sweden has not had since the days of the million-dollar programme. At the same time, Sweden is in a position where politicians and actors in the housing market must gather together to improve the situation for weak households. The municipalities need to be active, and the government has set up a study to map how the municipalities work to analyse and manage the demand and housing needs of groups with a weak position in the housing market. The investigator shall analyse whether there is a need for guidance or complementary municipal tools in order to facilitate the work and make the suggestions arising from the analysis. If necessary, the investigator shall propose changes to the Housing Responsibility Act. I have also invited representatives from Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö to discuss the situation for vulnerable groups. We also need to increase our knowledge of the challenges in this area. The Government therefore allocated funds to Formas for research for a social housing policy in the 2017 budget bill. Having said that, I hope that Mats Green will have answers to the questions he has asked.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-700	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Housing stated in an interview in Dagens Industri on 2 November 2017 that housing policy needs to be changed. Among other things, the Government mentions that special low-cost housing will be necessary, in international contexts often called social housing. There are many different forms of how housing for socially vulnerable people is organised around the world. In some countries, entire residential areas are built by public authorities, while construction companies are required to dispose of a certain proportion of newly built dwellings for this purpose in other countries. In Sweden we have chosen another route. The statement is a departure from previous statements, the previously reported direction of the government and also the previous broad consensus on this issue that has existed between all parties in the Riksdag when it comes to the fact that this is not desirable in Sweden. There has been a political consensus on this for some very obvious reasons: that it is not a solution to Sweden's housing crisis, that it creates more problems than it solves and that it directly counteracts an overall and positive common political ambition for a society that stays together. Thank you for your answer, that is to say that the government will not, after all, introduce so-called social housing in Sweden. All discussions about social housing tend to be about breaking out, getting away from and above all not having to deal with the basic problem, which is the housing shortage. Most of the housing problems in Sweden that are raised in the social and media debate – from housing prices, housing costs and the housing situation for young people to what we are discussing now, namely housing for weak groups – are the consequences and effects of the fundamental problem, which is housing shortage and a housing market in imbalance. If the basic problem is dealt with, Madam President, its sequelae will also be dealt with automatically. Of course we have tools, and we need more tools to manage and guarantee the housing situation of weak groups. Social housing, however, is not a solution to the problems, but it creates new problems. Once again, I thank you for your answer and I am pleased that the government has made it clear that it has changed its approach to social housing. It is valuable that we do not introduce it in Sweden. I do not really see any example in Europe or in the world in general where you have social housing and it works well. We usually talk about slaughtering our sacred cows. You can do that, but again: then it should be something that solves the problems, not create new ones.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-708	Madam President, I would like I have not said that I am in favour of introducing social housing. Maybe it was a slightly wrong quote. I have said that I think we have a great challenge today, namely a huge deficit because we have been building very little for a very long time. Now it is important to ensure that we in Sweden also build housing for those who do not have large wallets. There we have the big challenge in Sweden today. There are many young people and newcomers in Sweden who are unable to get millions of loans or who are unable to pay rental housing with very high rents. It is a problem when there are too few people who build housing for a market where everyone can participate. This is a concern especially in the Stockholm region. It has been too large a proportion of the newly built dwellings that have been built as residential units at high prices in recent years, rather than, as in the rest of Sweden, taking a little greater social responsibility. The policy that exists in the rest of Europe is about what is called social housing. It is not very different from what we have in Sweden. Of course, there are many municipalities around Sweden where you are forced to ensure that there are housing for everyone. There are many who have problems in the housing market, and municipalities often have to make sure to have their own apartments that they buy or rent for those who demand and who are unable to arrange this for themselves. Basically, it is a different model than the one we have in Sweden and that I think we should continue to have. I think it has been successful in the long term, but I also think that we should be aware that if we are not able to solve the housing issue for people who do not have a large wallet, we will end up in a different position sooner or later when other measures may be needed. It would be unfortunate if we ended up in that position, but I think we should be aware of that.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-713	Madam President, I would like Now the Government has corrected its statement in Today's Industry. I thought that was good. I also thought that the answer given by the Government was good in terms of social housing. But now the Government is starting in some way to backtrack it, for now one could perhaps imagine social housing anyway. I would be very surprised if there was agreement on this in the government. I am clarifying my question and I want a yes or no on whether you are in favour of social housing. I think it is important that we in this House should not be guilty of starting to break out individual issues, as it is easy to do in the public debate in general. There is a break-out of mortgage requirements, social housing and youth housing. It is clear that it is particularly painful for them, but the basic problem is still that we have an extreme shortage of housing in Sweden. That is precisely why we need to take a holistic approach. Above all, we need to focus on the basic problem – that we need more housing here – and not come up with a lot of stick marks that make it unnecessary to deal with this basic problem, which is the big problem in the Swedish debate today. Again, I would like the Minister to clarify whether you are in favour of social housing or not. I can put it this way: are there any circumstances under which the Minister might consider it to be an appropriate part? Is that part of the world of thought?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-716	Madam President, I would like It was not my intention to enter this debate, but I could not help it. The fact that investment aid would be the answer to the question of how we can get more housing for those who have the greatest need and are farthest from the housing market today is nonsense. Social housing, which is the subject of this debate, is a negatively charged concept, especially because there are many bad examples of it around the world. I would rather talk about a social housing policy, because there are good examples in the world. It is a policy that is not based on billions of subsidies, which only dilutes the profits of already profitable construction companies, and which is not based on building bonuses to municipalities that already have massive housing programmes in their plans and to housing that is managed to a rather narrow supply that does not fully match the demand in the area. There is nothing in social housing or in that system that says that these very dwellings should go to people who are far from the housing market. They might as well go to people who are already established and who can afford to pay a little more for a home. Now that I have the chance, I would also like to point out that housing for the groups furthest from the housing market does not necessarily have to be rental apartments, especially not newly produced ones. We know that, regardless of the level of subsidy, newly produced rental apartments are considerably more expensive than already built rental apartments. In many cases, there may be economic benefits to owning your dwelling, which is made extremely difficult by the stricter amortisation requirements that the government is expected to decide a little later on. The property is at a disadvantage. Above all, it is difficult for newcomers in the housing market and newcomers to enter. Reforms would be needed, such as a housing saving for young people, which would create more opportunities to enter the housing market. Mobility is small. We have a lack of mobility, rigid renting, high building prices and far too few, I would say, possible lease forms in Sweden when compared to other countries where there is a much greater variation. Because of this, we have displacement effects on the housing market. There are people who live in the so-called cheap rental right who choose to stay even though they might be able to live in a better place but possibly at a slightly higher cost. It is a problem that we have as bad a use of the housing market as we do. That means a lot of people are being shut out. Madam President, I would like If there are no more speeches on my part, as it may be, I would like to say that I welcome the fact that Mats Green took the initiative in the debate. It is moving on the borderline of the real reforms that would be needed in the housing market to bring about a change in housing policies that will bring about increased construction, construction throughout the country and greater mobility.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-725	Madam President, I would like I agree with what Ola Johansson said at the end of her speech. It is an important debate. It touches on the great challenge that we have in the residential area. It is not as Ola Johansson said in the previous interpellation debate that there is today a shortage of 600 000 homes. It is difficult to know exactly how big the shortcomings are today. According to Boverket's forecast, if this is what we are going to talk about, the figure is 600 000 homes for a need up to 2025. It is therefore not the need today that Boverket has in that forecast, but the number of years up to 2025. If you look at that level, we are today in a housing production that is about that level. That's 73,000 or 76,000. There have been some different forecasts of how many homes we have started this year. It is dramatically more than in the period of the previous bourgeois governments. We saw at the beginning of the century that we have a population development that is significant. We have increased the population in Sweden by 1.1 million people in 2000 – 2016. We agree that much more housing is needed in Sweden. That's what we're building now. But it is important to keep the level up for a long time. What currently stands in the way of building even more according to all surveys during the year is the lack of skills. There's been a shortage of staff. This applies from engineers to craftsmen, carpenters, plumbers, those in municipalities and county boards who deal with the issues and work with detailed plans, architects and everyone who is in the area. Today we are building much more than before. We need to keep doing that. But the debate is also about the housing we build. I want a social housing policy. I think it was those words that Ola Johansson used, and it was also those that I used earlier for what we need in Sweden. My concern when we discuss between the parties is that I do not see a shred of social housing policy in, for example, the Moderates. I do not see any indication of a change that would mean either building more homes or building according to needs rather than those with large wallets. It would be very interesting to get a closer discussion and a closer answer from the Moderates about: What are we supposed to do with all these people who can't afford to buy expensive condos or villas? How are they gonna get a place to live?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-733	Madam President, I would like I'm getting a little confused. Now Peter Eriksson opposes himself. I fully share what my alliance colleague Ola Johansson said here about the importance of broad and deep housing policy reforms here in Sweden. There are three points in particular that I would like to highlight. The Government says that much is being built now and that it will be enough. It is not built by any means as much as is really needed. It would be interesting to see who said that. I don't think you'll find anyone in Sweden, Peter Eriksson, who agrees with that statement. It is remarkable that, in the deepest housing crisis of half a century, a Minister for Housing has this view. When we discuss social housing and the statement made by the Minister, it is about not having to deal with the fundamental problems of Swedish housing policy and the Swedish housing market. We have a desperate need for more housing. When we get more housing, many of the sequelae that we are now discussing and which is the effect of a dysfunctional housing market will automatically resolve itself. We will always have special efforts to ensure access for weak groups to the housing market. There, municipalities have a variety of tools, and we also need to introduce more tools. But above all, Madam President, we need more housing. I would like to ask the question once again, because Peter Eriksson disagrees with himself on the issue of social housing. Do you see any scenario where you can think d ig to start working on it? If so, do you speak for the entire government?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-738	Madam President, I would like We saw the lack of housing at an early stage," says Peter Eriksson in his speech after my first speech. It's very hard to grasp the flaw. We have a tight house that we have no idea what it looks like. We have an EBO legislation that has had many good intentions but which has led us to have no idea what the needs look like, how big they are or what people we should build for. What we are now discussing is not that, but that is the construction of a fairly ordinary household consumer with decent income and perhaps even in occasional cases the possibility of borrowing the money that would be needed to buy a home. Peter Eriksson mentioned that at the beginning of the century we saw a need. But what we did not see was an approaching financial crisis that would trigger a construction stop of an unprecedented kind. What we saw in 2013 while the Minister for Housing was still named Stefan Attefall was an increase in housing construction and a planning activity in the country's municipalities that was significantly higher than it has been for a very long time. This has given rise to the build boom that the Minister of Housing is now happy to pat his chest over. What we now see coming are the social housing on which the construction companies still make good money and which they had decided to build from the outset. It may even in isolated cases be about housing that I as a municipal policy you in Kungsbacka during the years 2006-2010 helped to produce through different types of planning programmes and detailed planning work. It's a long lead time on residential construction. It is wrong to say that what is happening now is the result of what the current government has done. It is a favourable economy, a good foundation and favourable economic conditions.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-743	Madam President, I would like There will be many questions at the same time. The foundation that we need to build a lot remains. There is quite extensive coverage from Boverket and in the surveys we have from the construction industry that the obstacle that exists today and that has existed in 2017 and 2016 to be able to build even more is about competence. It's a shortage of manpower. It is possible to show very easily. I understand that Mats Green is quite new in this area and perhaps has not followed along so well in what has happened in recent years. Therefore, he can claim that there is not much construction. But the rest of us, who have participated, have seen that a lot has happened, also in the area that Mats Green is usually interested in. He seems to think that the problems we are going to solve are due to too much hassle and too much regulation and that we need changes to reduce the regulatory burden in this area. There we take the biggest initiative that has been taken in several decades as we now review the entire Boverket building regulations. It is something that will require a lot of work and a lot of staff, and I believe that this comprehensive review of Boverket's building regulations that is currently under way is the government's biggest investigation project.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-746	Madam President, I would like We have another interpellation here. It is also from Mats Green from the Moderates, who have asked me whether it is my view that responsibility for housing supply should primarily lie with the municipalities, despite the fact that many municipalities indicate a lack of regulations as a reason why housing supply often fails and whether I believe that the role of the government in housing supply should be primarily passive. Finally, Mats Green asks me what measures I intend to take to improve the conditions for local authorities to provide housing. I would like to start by making it clear that the state is primarily responsible for the financial and legal conditions of the housing market, while the municipalities, together with other actors, are responsible for planning and access to housing for residents. According to the Housing Supply Act, municipalities must create the conditions for everyone in the municipality to live in good housing by planning the housing supply. It is clear that in municipalities that work actively with the housing supply there is better planning and planning and that there is therefore more housing being built there. The government has introduced the so-called building bonus as a support to municipalities for increased housing construction. Mats Green believes that, in my role as Minister of State, I have not taken responsibility for implementing important simplifications in the regulatory framework. I would say that the government has in no way ducked on this issue. The government's 22 point programme for increased housing construction from June last year contains a number of points concerning simplification and streamlining. Among other things, two major investigations have been set up. The Committee for Modernisation of Construction Rules will carry out a thorough review of Boverket's building regulations with the overall aim of modernising the regulatory framework and thus promoting increased competition and increased construction. An effective planning process requires different decisions to be taken at the right level and at the right time and strategic, general planning to play a central role. The master plan investigation shall investigate and propose how the master plan can be developed to facilitate subsequent planning. The study will also review the possibility of making the master plan binding in certain respects and investigate how the presentation of the plan documents should be made in order to create the conditions for increased predictability and sustainable development of society. In the interim report of last summer, the investigation has proposed limiting the detailed plan requirement. The study's proposal, if implemented, means that more construction projects can be tested directly by means of a building permit or an advance ruling. In addition, the County Administrative Board's instructions have been amended with the addition that the County Administrative Board in its operations should work to ensure that the need for housing is met. The construction industry itself points to the lack of skilled labour as the main obstacle to housing construction. This is shown, among other things, in the Konjunkturinstitutet's cyclical barometer. The government has taken steps to increase and raise skills in this area. The 2018 budget bill announced an investment in higher education in the civil engineering sector. The Government's investment in PBL competence, which Boverket maintains, also aims to help create a uniform and effective application of the Planning and Construction Act throughout the country. The target group for the initiative is mainly municipal officials. Finally, digitalisation has a great potential to streamline the planning and construction process. The construction sector is considered to be lagging behind other sectors in terms of automation and standardisation. Measures in this area have so far taken place at local level in municipalities without common standards and therefore the benefits of digitalisation have been limited. Against this background, the Government intends to take steps to achieve a more efficient process and a knowledge boost in this area. The Government has allocated a total of SEK 85 million over a three-year period for this purpose in the 2018 budget proposal. With regard to measures to improve the conditions for the provision of housing services for municipalities, I refer to the report on municipal planning for housing, which I mentioned a moment ago, in the previous interpellation debate with Mats Green.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-754	Madam President, I would like Speaking of the Minister's way of closing the previous debate, I note that I have spent more time in housing policy at both municipal and national level than the Minister himself has. It also tends to be felt here in the debate, Madam President. I now turn to talking about this interpellation. My job as Minister of Housing is to place demands on municipalities to build. So said Peter Eriksson in a debate with me in Sweden's Television Agenda a few weeks ago. So what Peter Eriksson says, Madam President, is that there are others who are going to do what is instead his main job as Minister of Housing. I have asked a number of questions about this in the interpellation. The job of a Minister of Housing is to facilitate the construction of municipalities. The housing crisis should be handled, not commented on or reviewed – especially if you are ultimately responsible for building more housing in Sweden. Peter Eriksson has recently explained in different contexts – both what I mentioned earlier and in Aftonbladet – his view of their respective municipalities' responsibility for housing supply. From these various statements it appears that the Government considers that his performance of his duties primarily consists of being passive and establishing state investment aid for housing construction and otherwise shifting the responsibility of municipalities to ensure that housing supplies function. The Government's statements on the responsibility of municipalities, which in several cases have been almost direct scoldings, especially in relation to the City of Stockholm, do not appear to be sensitive to the municipalities and the needs they claim to have in order to solve the difficult situation we now have in the housing market. One of Sweden's municipalities and County Councils, including the housing minister's own party friends and coalition collegues, as well as countless individual municipalities, states that shortcomings in the laws and regulations for housing construction constitute the greatest obstacle to their ability to satisfy the housing supply. However, during his term of office, both during Peter Eriksson's and former Prime Minister Mehmet Kaplan's time as Minister of Housing, this work has been extremely slow. Despite the worst housing crisis in more than half a century, no government in modern times has made so few proposals to increase housing construction. That is both unacceptable and unsustainable, Madam President. The newly resigned Home Secretary has delivered 75 bills. Two environmental-partisan housing ministers in the housing crisis Sweden have delivered seven proposals, nicely counted. That says it all, Madam President. The few proposals put forward by the government are, in fact, a number of years too late to accept the measures proposed by the Alliance several years ago. That is not an active housing policy, Madam President. The government would have any simplification in Parliament tomorrow if it had just proposed someone. The marginal measures that Peter Eriksson has now listed here have been found by all stakeholders to be too little and too late. In addition, most of this we have had to force the government to do more or less. That is not possible, Madam President. It is now high time that Minister for Housing Peter Eriksson and the Government began to assume their responsibilities and did not continue to avoid it.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-764	Madam President, I would like I can say I'm a little concerned about the tone. Although we have now launched a reform programme that is larger than in the eight years when it was a bourgeois government, Mats Green pretends that nothing has happened. It's completely wrong. Not only do we build much more housing than before, but we also have a more comprehensive reform programme. It is not possible to read in proposals because the major changes that we have made are that we have actually launched a reform programme on the whole regulatory framework. It is not in the Planning and Construction Act that the major problems are, and therefore we do not need to send new proposals for major changes to it to the Riksdag. On the other hand, we need to review the gigantic regulations that are in place and which deal with Boverket's building regulations. Everyone who works in this area knows that this is where the problems are rather than in the Planning and Construction Act. It is an important and central change that we are now working on and that you were unable to get started under previous governments. The 22-point programme is a comprehensive programme that touches on almost all the points we discussed during the deliberations we had with the opposition until summer 2016. The only thing that is not in that area is the tax rules. They're on the side. I am not responsible for them, and I think it is important to review the tax rules, too, because it has a significant impact on the long-term sustainability of construction. We need agreements there, and I hope that, at least after the next elections, we will be able to reach them. Mats Green tells me I'm reviewing. But I do not actually hear any concrete proposals from Mats Green and the Moderates today about what we should do instead. We have started a huge simplification exercise, but Mats Green says he has other proposals. If so, show them! Get them out and we'll discuss them.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-768	Madam President, I would like It is one thing to say that we are in favour of an active housing policy and quite another to do so. I note once again that the Minister stands here and says that it does not matter how many proposals are pushed through in the Swedish Parliament to make it easier to build, but it is about other things. What other things? Seven proposals – I would remind you that half of them were written by the Alliance. One stands here and beats one's chest, but no one is satisfied with the housing policy being pursued. Your party friends and your coalition friends in the Swedish Municipalities and County Council say that the single biggest obstacle for municipalities and their construction is too complicated a regulatory framework. It is your own party friends who say so. I also note that your party friends in Stockholm object quite strongly to the description of them. We have a problem, Madam President, with this double lock in the government with a Social Democracy which opposes all structural but necessary changes in the housing market and the Green Party which opposes almost all simplification. I usually say that Peter Eriksson could have any simplification through Parliament tomorrow if he had only had one proposal. The few watered-down proposals he has made are really what the Alliance Government once proposed but which Peter Eriksson's party, the Environmental Party, fell by joining forces with the Swedish Democrats, the Social Democrats and the Left Party. Again, you sit and fingers at the margins and hardly even that, but you dare not give in to the basic foundations. We Moderates, together with our alliance colleagues, have put forward a huge amount of proposals to increase housing construction in Sweden. We usually talk about sacred cows. I don't really have any sacred cows. I dare say that Ola Johansson hardly has either. We are prepared to go into depth to really handle Sweden's housing challenge. The Minister is talking about housing policy deliberations. We want housing policy discussions to agree on how we can do as much as possible to increase housing construction in Sweden. The government has proven that housing policy deliberations for them are about having to do as little as possible. That is totally unacceptable, Madam President, given the housing crisis that we are in here in Sweden. I can sometimes find it remarkable, Peter Eriksson, that we think it is a sufficient building act that we have now when we see the consequences of inadequate construction in Sweden as a whole, partly, and above all, for individuals around our country. We are talking about the biggest reform effort, but that is not the case and nobody is saying it. It's one thing that I'm standing here criticizing the minister-- that's a little what's my job. M a his own party friends in Stockholm City and his party friends in the Swedish Municipalities and County Council say: You need to make things easier for us. It is the state that limits municipalities and their ability to assume their housing responsibilities. I note that the minister responsible is simply saying that his task is to demand responsibility from the municipalities. No, no, no. The Minister for Housing's responsibility is to ensure that the municipalities continue to make it easier. Once again, Madam President, I would like to stress that I am not the first to say so, but Peter Eriksson's own party friends and coalition friends in Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils. When will Peter Eriksson and the government start delivering? I ask for my part but also for Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils. When?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-778	Madam President, I would like There is possibly one of Peter Eriksson's successors standing in the speaker's chair here today. The municipalities have a responsibility. That is what we are discussing here today. However, many municipalities are also experiencing major obstacles. Difficultly interpreted overlapping national interests are one such thing. There the government has proposals on its table that you do nothing about. The beach protection rules here in Stockholm, for example, have been estimated to prevent 95 000 homes, and even worse, it looks like in the rest of the country where you might have even more need to be able to build near the beach. The Noise Guideline values have been changed by the Alliance so that it is possible to build in more noisy locations than it is today, but reforms are still needed in this area, because the noise levels on the outside of the house are measured and not on the inside where it should be quiet. There are active and literate citizens in the municipalities who often go quite far to prevent and delay housing construction. Here the municipality is not directly guilty, but the municipality is the victim when they start. Then there are cases where municipalities are also guilty themselves. It is when they make their own demands that go beyond national requirements and thus bind rice to their own backs. It has been discussed for a long time how reasonable it is to be able to do so. It is already far too difficult to make changes to an already adopted detailed plan that has reached the end of the implementation period when it would be necessary to make densifications, small changes, in order to increase accessibility or perhaps create security-building measures in a million programme area where crime and violence are becoming a concern. There has long been a belief in many of the municipalities of the country that they should be able to use their public housing company to realise their own housing policy objectives. That is no longer true, because since we got the companies, there is no such possibility. That is something we must live with. On the other hand, there are depreciation rules that make it hard when it is impossible to build multi-family houses in a weak housing market. We've discussed this before. It is reforms that could also mean a great deal to the municipalities. I know that the Minister for Housing is not responsible for this, but his party colleague Per Bolund does. Now that I have once again asked for the floor spontaneously in the debate, I take the opportunity to highlight the weak housing markets. For in many municipalities there is a need for housing for the elderly or perhaps to satisfy a growing population growth. It is usually said that there are 600 000 homes. It's possible I'm wrong. That's Boverket's assessment. Boverket's assessment is also that there is some form of housing shortage in 260 of the country's 290 municipalities. Not all of the municipalities are growth municipalities. They are neither near nor on the edge of our big cities. We are discussing the need to manage the municipal housing supply. This could involve the introduction of some form of private initiative. On the basis of a well-defined and strong master plan, there could also be an opportunity for private operators to draw up detailed plans and force the municipality to decide on them. It could also mean deciding to grant building permits without prior detailed planning work, if this is an area located a bit outside the urban area. The provision of skills is of course a great need. Economics and taxes are also very much in need. In my last post I will come into new cities.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-790	Madam President, I would like I am pleased with this discussion, because it shows how thin it is on the opposition side. The previous governments gathered eight years of government and failed quite miserably. Many believed that simplifications would suffice. But it didn't. A number of regulatory simplifications were made. Some were good. Others were less good. But that work continues, and we will review it in order to gain more transparency. Simpler rules are good because they also affect the competitive situation. But that's not enough. One must also get a commitment in the municipalities around Sweden, and that is what we get by supporting the municipalities and working for active work around Sweden. That's what we got. We've done it. And I'm proud of that. It is not that it takes ten years to build new homes. I have opened new residential areas where the homes have been in place one or two years after the planning has started. It is quite possible to build much faster today. A number of municipalities have been skilled in using the existing regulations and have managed to get started with extensive housing production. It is to a large extent by spreading the knowledge that we have started the production of housing across almost all of Sweden now. I am also pleased with the municipal bonus that we have introduced. Only in the last few days have we completed the distribution of the money for this year. Swedish municipalities received almost 2 billion extra. It has been a small push in the right direction and has meant that almost all large and medium-sized municipalities have a housing supply plan today. There are some smaller municipalities that do not have a housing supply plan. But when I took office a year and a half ago, less than half of Sweden's municipalities had a housing supply plan. Today, almost everyone has. The municipal bonus has been a major contributor to this. This has also meant that the municipalities have developed housing plans and that both politicians and officials have been involved and made sure to get started with projects. This means that we also have a comprehensive production of plans and building permits for 2018, so there are decent conditions for continuing to maintain large housing production despite the fact that it is on the verge of what the Swedish industry is capable of. One should know that it is about about 75 000 houses started in 2017. Only a few years ago Boverket said that Sweden is not able to build more than 40,000. We've already shown that it was wrong. You can build a lot more. I'm sure we can go further. But it'll take some time. In order to build more homes, we must above all ensure that more people are involved in the industry and to build more industrially and more efficiently, with higher productivity.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-799	Madam President, I would like Peter Eriksson is dedicated to commenting and reviewing instead of delivering. I remember the beginning of 2015, when Peter Eriksson's representative Mehmet Kaplan was Minister of Housing. Then Ola Johansson stood in this speaker's chair and noted that we were still talking about the Alliance's housing policy. We did that for a simple reason. It was the only housing policy there was to discuss. I can feel a little bit that we are in the same position two years later, with one exception – the investment grants have come into being. Peter Eriksson says that they support the municipalities. This is not really the view of the municipalities. A gathering of Swedish Municipalities and Landsting – environmentalists, social democrats, left-wing parties and all others – clearly states that they do not have the necessary government tools to be able to assume their housing responsibility and that they are still too surrounded by rules and restrictions. I know you refuse to do anything about it. Me and Ola Johansson can buy any simplification. It is not enough just to cut a few months on a plan process that sometimes spans six to eight years. You have to cut it all year long. We can deliver and live up to that. Peter Eriksson probably doesn't even agree with that. Do you think that together we could agree to cut whole years on a plan process? No, because the Green Party refuses to discuss all the simplifications, except for those who do not matter at all.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-804	Madam President, I would like It's a little good to be able to improvise. I did not get into the area of new cities in my previous post. It is also one of the 22 proposals that exist. One can reflect on the extent to which the new cities are new policies or whether these are things that could have been implemented in any case. Everything really depends on being able to make the necessary investments in infrastructure and moving forward with investments in high-speed rail and other things. The government obviously still has no plan for how to do it. Another thing to consider with the new cities is whether they are expected to be as attractive as people think they should be. How is it to be reflected in a leasing arrangement in different ways when we have a leasing model that prevents construction companies from making investments in rental rights? In 2013, residential building construction started to grow in the country. Then we didn't have a red-green government. Two successive alliance governments had worked consistently with the regulatory simplifications that we see today and that we benefit greatly from. Finally, I am pleased that Peter Eriksson mentioned the building bonuses. It is the most flagrant example of how to throw money after those who have not really earned it. Now I go out on slippery ice and mention my own municipality of residence, Kungsbacka. As long as I have been active in municipal politics in Kungsbacka municipality, we have had a residential building of about 500 homes a year. An ongoing planning activity is to update outline plans, to have detailed plans running and planning programs in consultation. All these things are daily activities in our municipality. This year we get SEK 13 million more for it. Last year we got 15 million more for it, because we did what we had to do anyway because we have that growth. It's a total waste of money.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-810	Madam President, I would like I think there is a lot of nonsense in the discussion. Mats Green claims that the Green Party is against any simplification. It's complete nonsense. We have started extensive work on regulatory simplification. Now it is not that work that has been crucial to get housing production started in Sweden. According to Boverket, Konjunkturinstitutet and the construction industry, it is quite clear that other things are crucial. There are definitely rules that still need to be changed. They're in the 22-point program I've been talking about. There are several of the concrete points that Ola Johansson mentioned, and there are a number of points where we agree. For example, I want to relax the beach protection rules in rural municipalities. The government has asked the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to produce an investigation, and it has arrived. We are preparing it and looking at whether we can take even more action. The investigation is one of many measures that could have been done in the past, perhaps in the eight bourgeois years. I do not understand why not all these regulatory simplifications, which are difficult to find an answer to where they would stand, were done in the past. Why didn't you solve all the problems with the rules before? Why do we have to do it now? I'd love to, but I think it's a little troubling that you keep pretending that that's the solution to all the problems. It certainly is not.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-813	Madam President, I would like Penilla Gunther has asked me whether I intend to work towards introducing a ban on uranium mining in Sweden. On 24 May this year, the Government commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to investigate how a ban on uranium extraction should be designed. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reported on 18 September in the letter Uranutning. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency proposes that uranium be removed as a concession mineral in the mineral law, which means that it will not be possible to obtain an exploration permit or processing concession for uranium. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposal, permission to extract uranium-containing material should only be granted if the operator can demonstrate that it is technically necessary to extract other minerals. According to the proposal, the Government will then, in the same way as today, examine the admissibility of the activity and may only allow it after the municipal council's strength. The proposal is for referral until 3 January 2018. The Government will then take a position on the proposal.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-815	Madam President, I would like Among the kutymen is that you should thank the Government for the answer. However, it is short, and it does not contain much because of what I actually wrote in the text of the bread in the interpellation. I am a little surprised by the fact that it is not possible to refer more fully to what is stated in the commissioned report from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The Government has ordered the investigation precisely because it so clearly wants to ban uranium mining in Sweden. It is interesting to note that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency itself writes in its investigation: ..................................................... I will read further from the investigation: the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has at the same time analysed the consequences of a possible ban on exploration for uranium and found that there is no environmental justification for such a ban. ..................................................... This is interesting. In view of what I mention in my interpellation, it is not primarily about using uranium for nuclear technology, but it is largely – at least for me as a Christian Democrat – about us taking responsibility in our own country for our own consumption. I am a Christian Democrat and the Government is an environmental party, and I might think that we should have something in common when we discuss the important concept that exists throughout society today, namely the circular economy. If we extract metals in Sweden that we use in different ways in our mobiles, electric cars or electric bicycles, which I understand that the government and in particular the Green Party have turned a lot for by issuing various subsidies, it also means that these products and consumption patterns consist of metals that have to be recycled in some way. They must first be extracted and then recycled – the entire production process. Let's get to the next question. When the Government's self-ordered report from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency arrives in September, the question is what happens in October. Well, then the investigation comes to the colleague of the government, Mikael Damberg, ordered from Growth Analysis, which makes it even more interesting. The study has been awarded the title "Innovation-critical metals and minerals from mining to product" – how can the government support the development? It clearly describes the need for innovation-critical metals and minerals to create an entire production chain and a discussion on how it can develop in Sweden. Then my questions remain to the Government: Is that all the Government has to say in its answer to my interpellation? Is there more to say in view of not least the colleague's study from Growth Analysis?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-822	Madam President, I would like Here Penilla Gunther spins to it really well on several points. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has, on request from the Government, investigated how a ban on mining uranium can be designed. A study takes a position on various possible regulations. The Environmental Protection Agency discusses whether a proposal against the exploration of uranium would be adequate and concludes that it is not adequate. That is why the work does not propose such a ban. In the proposal that is now being referred, there is no proposal against the exploration of uranium. Instead, the work suggests that the ban should be drafted in a different way. There's nothing strange about that. It is proposed that uranium be removed as a concession mineral from the mineral law. This means that it will not be possible to obtain research permits or processing concessions in respect of uranium. The proposal for referral does not include a prohibition on exploration. As Gunther said, the work found that there would be no environmental benefit, and therefore it is not proposed. The second part that gets very dizzy is the discussion about the circular economy. I believe that there is a broad consensus in society on the need for better circularity, not least with regard to minerals. But it has no connection whatsoever to where the minerals are mined. The government has, among other things, initiated an investigation to see if there are minerals that have previously been put aside, so to speak, and are now present in mining waste and if they have a market value, including in view of what is being put forward here about an increased need for some metals linked to battery production and electronics. This is particularly important in the case of the rare metals, because they are often, like uranium, associated with very large environmental impacts during mining. But why is the question at all relevant? Well, it's linked to what I said about major local environmental impacts in uranium mining that give rise to great concern in several rural areas in Sweden. In Närke, Jämtland and Skaraborg there are areas crouching under the threat of uranium mining. This hampers investment and development in rural areas, as the municipalities in question have for several years expressed very clearly. If we make it clear that there will be no mining of uranium there, these areas will have hope for the future again. You will dare to invest again when a dead hand is no longer over the countryside. This possibility is received very positively in the areas in question.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-828	Madam President, I would like I don't get any wiser with the government's reasoning here. If she calls me dizzy, I can return this name by stating that in Sweden about 1 500 tonnes of natural uranium are used annually. If it is not broken in Sweden, it is obviously broken somewhere else. I do not think that the Government can be completely unaware of the debate that has taken place in the media, not least in recent weeks, in view of Amnesty International's various reports on this particular issue of metals used not least in electric cars and mobile phones. It is said that it is difficult to follow the chain of suppliers. It is cited as a reason for many of the major international companies. In addition, the Minister stresses that the municipalities that could possibly be exposed to uranium mining should Sweden be allowed to feel relieved if this were to be tightened further. Then I say this: Is it better that we import uranium from very dubious countries with non-functioning democratic systems, countries that have no health and safety conditions for which anyone is responsible at all but exposes people to delicate health risks, rather than allowing uranium mining, using the legislation in such a way that uranium mining is used for what it is to be used for – when there is also reason to exploit other metals when mining uranium – and creating jobs in Sweden? If we are now to protect both personal work environment and the environment in general and be able to use the circular idea from mining and production to recycling and – as I am so kind that I mention in my interpellation – if we are so encouraging that Northvolt establishes a battery factory in Sweden, we cannot at the same time be so naive that we believe that lithium ion batteries will come out all by themselves, that they from the air will fall into the factory and then just be there. Somewhere these metals must be mined. I ask again: is it better for us to import, whether it be uranium or other metals that we use in some way for our consumption, than to allow and encourage companies to invest capital in Sweden so that we create jobs in many areas where, moreover, there are not so many jobs today?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-833	Madam President, I would like One thing I think is quite clear and well known about the policy of the Green Party, and that is that we are working intensively to stop uranium from being used at all by the closure of nuclear power. This is linked to the fact that there is no environmentally safe handling of uranium, either in terms of mining or later. It is therefore with great pleasure that we see that the decommissioning of nuclear power in Sweden has begun. More current and forward-looking is to look at the need for rare earth metals in connection with battery production and electronics. If Penilla Gunther had read the parts of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposal which show what is actually being proposed, she would have noted that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has put forward a proposal that does not prevent mining of minerals other than uranium. Rare earth metals and other substances are sometimes bound in uranium-rich minerals, and it can be difficult to extract these without also extracting uranium. This is also clear from the report produced by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Such activities should, according to the proposal of the Agency, be authorised after the approval of the Government – as is the case today. The activity is then also able to economically assimilate uranium arising from the operation provided that this is permitted under the environmental permit. This brings us back to the third error. The interpeller incorrectly writes that this would not be possible. I do not know what it is based on, but the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposal states that you should be able to assimilate uranium that arises in this way. The Government has active work for a sustainable mining industry in Sweden that should be able to be viable in the future and serve as a base for current and future industries, including through the initiative that my colleague Minister for Enterprise Damberg has taken. I have also personally met with Northvolt's CEO to discuss whether the company has all the conditions to get its business started and how to assimilate the minerals needed. Northvolt gave very reassuring answers to these questions: it will be possible to secure access, and it lays the bar high for sustainable management at all stages. As highlighted here, Swedish companies are good at transparency, and we have good environmental inspections in Sweden. A ban on uranium for good means that those areas where there is great uncertainty – where one sees that the willingness to invest is affected by a constant, latent threat of uranium mining that would affect the quality of life and the environment in these areas – can have the dead hand lifted away and have the opportunity to look forward much better than they can as long as this threat persists.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-841	Madam President, I would like This is really interesting. On the one hand, the Government does not want to ban uranium extraction. On the other hand, she wants to, because it would lift a dead hand from areas that are currently uncertain about how the mines and environmental responsibility could work there. Firstly, the Government was not involved in the negotiations on the energy agreement; it was me. I strongly dislike the fact that the Government uses this in different contexts – to refer to the Energy Agreement and that a discussion on the mission to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency would be some kind of additional expression of that agreement. It has nothing to do with anything. It is interesting that you can read in the directives for the investigation what you have started from. Sweden is one of the few countries in the world that could be able to handle the entire uranium cycle, from extraction to disposal. I've also had contact with Northvolt. I have also been on a study visit to Boliden, which is also located in Skellefteå and has transportation from all over the world to Skelleftehamn, precisely for the extraction of metals. To be able to use this cycle for Sweden, to be able to create jobs, to get the opportunity to...
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-844	Madam President, I would like The Government has taken an initiative by submitting a commission to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to draft a ban on uranium extraction in Sweden. The background to this is that uranium has a very clear local environmental impact, and the large but diffuse deposits that exist in Sweden have been a latent threat – so it has been understood out in the areas – in several parts of Sweden and caused great concern. There is evidence from municipalities and industry that this has hindered investment and development in these areas. I think it is good to make it clear that uranium mining in Sweden will not be considered. When we asked the work to draft such a ban, it was also very clear in the instruction – and it has also been clear in the proposal that has come – that this should not affect the mining of other minerals. That is why a proposal is being made to allow for an exception; this is not very difficult or complicated. It is important that we work together to ensure that the minerals needed for the industry, and not least the business-related transition to a 100% renewable energy system, are given the opportunity to develop. There the government has a very active work and close cooperation with current companies. None of the companies with which we have been in contact in relation to those parts have requested uranium mining.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-848	Madam President, I would like Maria Malmer Stenergard has asked Minister Isabella Lövin about the emission effects of the e-bike premium. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The same interpellation has already been made on two previous occasions by Members of the same party as Maria Stenergard. I've already answered the interpellation.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-850	Madam President, I would like I usually start interpellation debates by thanking the Minister for the answer. I cannot do that in this case because I have not actually received an answer. So the question I have raised in this interpellation is: What are the emission effects of the e-bike premium? The background to the question is the government's very extensive investment of SEK 350 million on an e-bike premium and the fact that the Minister for the Environment's colleague, Minister for Climate Change Isabella Lövin, herself has said that she would allow the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to count on the climate benefit. I therefore believe that this is a particularly relevant issue. Have the calculations promised now been made? The Minister for the Environment does not say which interpellations she may refer to. My colleague Johan Hultberg has submitted an interpellation, which was answered more than two months ago. Then there were no calculations, but I had hoped that there might be some now. In another interpellation debate with Tobias Billström, the Minister said: How much the government's investments reduce emissions we still have no precise figures on. As the Minister for the Environment today seems to have nothing further to say than these interpellation responses, I therefore assume that the answer is: the government does not know what the emission effects of the e-bike premium are deemed to have. Then, of course, I am concerned. Before carrying out an effort as large as one third of a billion taxpayers' money, one must try to make sure that one really achieves something with the initiative. Has the government made such calculations? Do we know, for example, how much transfer from car traffic to electric bicycle we can expect? In short, has the government calculated the climate benefit of this third of a billion? I take the Minister's non-answer here today as saying that this has not yet been done. Is that correct? If it is correctly understood, when can we expect these calculations, as Isabella Lövin has promised? Finally, I must say that I am surprised that the Minister has not endeavoured to answer my question. For the sake of climate change, we should all be committed to the efficiency of climate action. I also believe, finally, that Parliament and the parliamentary scrutiny power should be treated with greater respect than the Minister has shown here today.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-857	Madam President, I would like The issues of cost-effectiveness have been debated in this House several times recently, and I will repeat the same answer that I have given on previous occasions. Environmental policy is at its most effective when it is able to achieve several benefits at the same time as the same measure. Historically and in other countries, we have seen clear effects of too narrow a focus on climate alone when designing measures. This has had devastating consequences for the urban environment in many cities in the world. The clearest example of this is when the diesel car was seen as a savior in the climate discussion. Since it has slightly higher efficiency, very many countries have strongly subsidised the diesel car, which is well documented by the OECD, among others. This then led to a diesel boom, which in turn led to increased levels of harmful emissions in many cities in the world, including in Swedish cities. This is an example of what happens if you have too narrow a focus when looking at environmental management measures. It is important that when we design climate policy we also have environmental policy with us, such as working together with air protection and climate policy and finding measures. Good measures are, in my view, those that have positive results in both areas. Our authorities are working together, and one important way to get that kind of proposal is for them to cooperate on both environmental and climate policy. In this collaborative work, there has been a clear picture from the responsible authorities to the government: With current policy instruments, decided by the Riksdag and the Government, we will not achieve either the climate target or the environmental quality targets. More instruments are needed, not least economic ones. It also points to traffic as an important element to address. It is well established that small electric vehicles such as electric bicycles and mopeds are an effective means of getting a transfer from car traffic. It is also well established that this type of relocation, in addition to environmental benefits, also leads to health benefits, which must also be taken into account when looking at whether an instrument is effective and positive for society or not. The e-bike premium has not yet formally entered into force. It does so only at the end of the year, although it is possible to save the receipt if you buy an e-bike today. Presenting any kind of results today is clearly not possible, because what would need to be collected for that type of follow-up simply does not exist yet.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-865	Madam President, I would like The climate threat is indeed acute. There is no doubt about that. Just a few weeks ago, new research showed that emissions are rising again after standing still for a little while. It underlines even more how urgent it is that we act to stop this development. We do not have time or money for detours when we reach our climate targets. This means that we must be able to make demands on the measures that we take and that they are effective and make real climate benefits. We simply need to accelerate our efforts in terms of climate change. In its budget proposal, the Government therefore proposes an e-bike premium at a cost of SEK 350 million. SEK 350 million — a third of a billion! It's not a small sum. Then one might ask: Is the sale of electric bicycles slow? On the contrary, it increased by 50 per cent from 2015 to 2016 of its own power, without subsidies. There is a lot to say, therefore, that the industry is doing well without subsidies. Unfortunately, there is much to suggest that we have a government that subsidises Christmas presents in an already functioning market. More instruments are needed, says the Minister, but the right instruments are needed above all. Then we must have an idea of the effects of the instruments we want to use. The Minister believes that it is well documented that electric bicycles move traffic from cars and that a premium can therefore play a role. But where is this well documented? I'd love to know. There are those who disagree. After all, the Institute of Economics has evaluated the budget investment, and their conclusion is clear: The E-bike premium is a difficult one to justify. They say that there are little indications that the market is not functioning satisfactorily even without state interference. Why, I wonder, when the climate threat is acute, do you pour money over something you don't know will do you any good? I'm really puzzled by this bet. The fight for a better climate is not won by the number of SEK invested; the fight for a better climate is won by the right invested crowns, and if we do not produce the basis, how do we know that we invest right? Madam President, I would like Very soon it will be time for a budget debate in this House. That is why I ask: will Members of Parliament take this decision to have a better basis for this 350 million investment?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-873	Madam President, I would like I want to repeat what I said. I just said that it is well laid down in traffic research that the electric cycle has a special potential to achieve transfer from car to bicycle. That's what I said, nothing else. There are also, and this is also very clear, major public health gains in this transfer, in addition to environmental benefits. There are 1,100 motorists just here in Stockholm who are estimated to have less than 30 minutes bike path to work. If one theoretical calculation were to get all of them over to cycle daily, it would be a health - economic gain of SEK 2.5 billion. This is just one example that reveals the great gain in steering over to just increasing cycling. The health benefit of the e-bike is also according to studies the same as for cyclists, since e-bicyclists tend to cycle longer distances and also use the bike more days. We have thus dealt with this objection, which sometimes comes up. It is true that sales of electric bicycles have increased. We, of course, see this as positive on the part of the government. However, the development in Sweden is not at all as great as in some other countries in our vicinity with the corresponding economy, namely Holland and Germany, where development is even faster. The potential for this has not been fully exploited in Sweden. We see that there is a momentum for electric bicycles in society that we want to take the opportunity to strengthen so that we really get the change in transport that is needed for the climate and to reduce air pollution. It is gratifying to hear Maria Malmer Stenergard say that climate issues are urgent. However, it is also urgent to deal with air pollution in Swedish cities. It is not acceptable for children to get asthma from walking on the streets of Swedish cities. We must also deal with this issue with full force. I miss suggestions in those parts from the Moderates. As for the Bankruptcy Institute's criticism, it is worth noting that it was more or less the same literally in view of the previous government's decision to introduce a super-environmental car premium. At that time, the same institute found that the sale of electric cars was on the way up, which it considered to be of its own power, and argued that the introduction of the super-environmental car premium was doubtful. Yet the moderate-led government chose to present a super-environmental car premium. Probably there were other arguments than those that came from the economic side at that time. This is therefore not unique, but rather a rule when we introduce economic instruments in Sweden. This Parliament has agreed on a clear climate policy target for the transport sector in Sweden. Our authorities have analysed it and stated that in order to achieve it, we need more instruments and increased pressure for real change. The Government proposes a number of such instruments. Even they won't take us all the way, but they'll start the journey. On the part of the opposition, it is silent. One seems to think that one can be content with having goals, and then the conversion will take place automatically. I don't share that picture.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-882	Madam President, I would like In conclusion, the basis for the decision taken by the government is that it is well understood that there is potential. I think it is very poor for a 350-million-dollar investment in taxpayers' money. Yes, we have agreed on very ambitious climate targets here in Sweden, and they are needed. I'm glad. It will not be easy to reach them, but if we are to reach them, we must make the right investments. We're gonna have to make a maximum climate. If you lack good ideas for achieving the climate goals, the climate will not be helped by investing even more in ineffective measures. It is not the number of crowns that determines the result but how to use the crowns. We invest in our budget where the money does the most climate benefit. We invest twice as much as the government in environmental research. We are committed to a specific CCS strategy to deal with emissions from heavy industry. We are spending half a billion more on international climate investment, because we know that every dollar is useful there. In fact, like all other policies, environmental policy must be subject to requirements of efficiency. If we are to be a green front country, we must demand sound public finances. Sustainable ecology requires a sustainable economy. The Swedish budget will soon be adopted in this House. My hope then is that we will not have to throw out a third of a billion on something that lacks real climate benefit. I therefore hope that the government will come back very soon with calculations of the climate benefits of such a large investment.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-887	Madam President, I would like Classical and conservative environmental policy has a clear standard recipe. There's a lot of money for research, and then you're gonna do things. First, you should always examine a little more. Then the second part is somewhere else. It's not here and not now, it's late and somewhere else. That is a completely different view from that of the government. We are pursuing a climate policy here and now. We make efforts that enable Sweden to take its climate responsibility with efforts at home, while at the same time having a very active – Sweden is much more active than Sweden has ever been before – work on the international arena. Of course, we also invest in climate and environmental research. It's incredibly important. But it must not be used as an excuse not to act here and now. Even in the run-up to the adoption by Parliament of the climate target for the transport sector, I was concerned that Parliament would be satisfied with the objective and that the opposition would remain silent as to how to achieve it and what instruments are needed. The environmental target committee, which presented the objective, was unanimous and very clear that new instruments are needed and that the transport system is a complex system. There is not a single measure that creates a change, but one needs to work in many parts. That is why the government is putting forward a whole package of measures. We start our journey towards a transition to fossil-free transport and at the same time create cities and built-up environments in which it is good to live and where children can breathe fresh air.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-890	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked Minister Eneroth what conclusions the Government draws from the fact that unfair competition in shipping has been created because of the non-compliance with the sulphur directive's requirements, whether the Government will present a proposal for a functioning sanction system for infringements of the sulphur directive's rules and, if so, when. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I would like to start by saying that effective sanctions systems are important in all parts of our environmental legislation. The government works continuously and actively for increased compliance and effective systems to prevent violations of regulations. As I have previously replied to Johan Hultberg, I agree with him that there are practical problems with today's sanctioning system, including its investigative nature, due to the nature of shipping. As ships are rarely in Swedish waters for a long period of time, police and prosecutors lack a practical opportunity to investigate possible crimes. The Government Office will refer a memo proposing a new sanction system shortly.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-893	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. On 1 January 2015, stricter rules were introduced for ships' fuels. The permitted sulphur limit was drastically reduced, from 1% to 0.1%. Sweden and a number of other countries once again took the lead in the environmental field. Many of the fears at that time have, thankfully, not come true. Now, two years later, an analysis from Traffic Analysis shows that the intended positive effects on air quality have been achieved. However, the problem is that competition has been distorted. We see that a far too high proportion of ships is actually breaking the rules. Just recently, results were presented from a European project, Compmon, in which Chalmers University of Technology has participated. The results of this work show that there are clear differences in compliance depending on who owns the ships. Some shipping companies have simply set up schemes to cheat. Other patterns can also be discerned. Ships calling at ports less often, such as cruise ships or the like, more often break the rules. We can see that ships often violate the rules on their way out of the SECA area, when they simply think they are about to escape state control. Madam President, I would like It is quite clear that we have a system of non-compliance and that the non-compliance results in two problems. One is an environmental problem. This leads to higher emissions than is permitted. In the recent debate, the Minister for the Environment highlighted the need for better air quality. This is such a question. The government is in a position to create better air quality by introducing an effective sanction system that leads to compliance with the rules that we have agreed. The second problem of non-compliance is what I have already mentioned, namely the distortion of competition and the fact that cheating actually pays off. These rules were not introduced yesterday. As I said, they entered into force on 1 January 2015. Ever since then, work has been going on at the Government Office. I have had several debates with the Minister for the Environment, where the answer has always been the same: shortly a proposal will be made. To ask the Minister here today how long is the time, Madam President, is kind of like asking the question: how long is a string? It's almost three years now. I don't think it's a short time. It is a fairly long time for companies that are forced to compete under unspeakable conditions and that are forced to take a higher cost than some of their competitors, who are in breach of the rules. I have to ask the Minister: can we have a more specific answer? How long is a short time for the government? Why has the Minister not been pleased to answer my initial question as to what conclusions the Minister draws from the fact that non-compliance distorts competition? I think it's a little casual. The government does not seem to take this problem seriously.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-901	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by actually repeating what was said. The Sulphur Directive has had very good effects. These effects can be measured in Swedish coastal cities. These are clearly measurable effects. The air is less harmful to health. Thankfully, the concerns expressed by the industry have not come true – I think it is good for the honourable Member to acknowledge that. But something else, too, is true. Most people follow the directive and behave. But there are – you can see if you read what comes from Chalmers – clear differences in compliance depending on who owns the ships. The researchers say that there are systematics in this. It seems that some shipping companies have set up schemes to cheat. For those who are a little less familiar, it is worth saying a few words about why this issue is difficult. Fuel management on board ships is a complex system. This is important for the supervision and the ability to collect evidence as to which oil a ship uses for propulsion. Often there are several grades of oil on board, and these oils have different sulphur content. This is the background to the fact that none of the infringements notified have yet been prosecuted. There is information for the Swedish Transport Agency about a preliminary investigation. This, of course, is not good enough. It will not be fully effective in terms of the environment, and, as was said, it will be an unjust competitive situation. Therefore, the Government will propose the possibility of introducing environmental sanctions in the event of a breach of the sulphur regulation. Environmental sanctions are an administrative penalty imposed by the Environmental Code and levied by the natural or legal person who has infringed any of the rules laid down in the Regulation. One advantage, and here's the point, is that responsibility is strict. The fee shall be charged even if there is no intention or negligence. There is, of course, the possibility of deciding that a fee should not be charged if it is manifestly unfair. These are the advantages of a fee, and a fee could be imposed much more often than the sanctions currently in place. The proposal will be submitted for consultation within a few weeks.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-907	Madam President, I would like It is easy to want to mention a slogan that a certain gaming company usually uses in its marketing of a particular ticket: Suddenly it happens! It is truly gratifying that the government is finally giving a clear and clear message that it will move from words to action and introduce an effective sanction system, let us hope, in any case. I very much welcome this, but at the same time I regret that the government has allowed this unhealthy competition to continue for so long. There are quite large differences in the cost of different fuels. The researchers from Chalmers took as an example that a ship can save around SEK 1 million on using the high sulphur fuel during a single trip between England and St. Petersburg round trip. So we are talking about large amounts, and that is why it is very important that we get the sanction system in place. I therefore look forward with confidence to receiving the referral within a few weeks. I guess it'll be time for Christmas for me to gloat for that reading. I can only wonder slightly that other countries have not had the same problem with getting such a system in place. It is enough to go to our neighbouring country, Norway, which has already introduced a system of fees and has already imposed a number of fines ranging from NOK 100 000 to NOK 500 000. I am convinced that it contributes to better compliance and thus also better competition. Madam President, I would like I note that a proposal is on the way. I very much welcome this but, as I said, I regret that it has been so long. I can use my remaining time to highlight the need for the government to continue to push ahead with common international rules within the IMO. These negotiations, particularly with regard to the emissions of climate from shipping, are rather slow. So there is every reason for the Minister and the Minister's colleagues to become more involved in this matter. Basically, me and the Moderates want to see more international agreements. It is not about us saying that someone else should do the job, but it is about establishing fair conditions of competition and rules that deliver as much environmental and climate benefit as possible. Then it's better to get global rules in place. We have now also agreed at European level that the EU should take the lead if negotiations within the UN Maritime Organisation (IMO) are not progressing sufficiently. I really want to inculcate the need for the government to be seriously involved in this matter in order for the negotiations to move forward, because unfortunately there have been some signals from Swedish shipping that the government has not been sufficiently active and has made concrete proposals, which are actually needed if these negotiations are to move forward. It is a strong call for the government to increase its commitment to the important issue.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-915	Madam President, I would like It is well worth saying a few words about why something that seems simple to the public is unfortunately not at all simple. The problem has been that it has been difficult to prove intent or to substantiate crimes. Today's regulation therefore places very high demands in these parts. It was not possible simply to impose fines on top of the current rules. Then there would have been a legal uncertainty and illegal situation of double sanctions, and it needed to be dealt with. There were also a number of other complex legal issues that needed to be addressed: whether the bans in the sulphur regulation were appropriate for the system of environmental sanctions and, in particular, to ensure legal certainty in connection with this exchange of sanctions. We perceive that we have dealt with and solved all these issues so that it will be mature to move forward shortly. It is good to stand here and discuss the emissions from shipping. Although shipping is in many ways an efficient mode of transport and we in the government want to strengthen it, we must also recognise that it is subject to emissions both in terms of climate and health impacts. We have a very ambitious shipping within Sweden, and that is fantastically positive. There is a lot going on, including a very interesting technological development. I am particularly interested, I must say, in what is happening in the form of electrification. It's really a leap in technology. This House often calls for international rules. We also have a consensus in Sweden, both between political parties and within the industry, that international regulations are preferable both in terms of climate work and in terms of air associations. In the latter part, unfortunately, the development is very slow, and it is important that we regionally and to the extent that it may also be necessary nationally find ways forward so that we still have a development work. I believe that we are in fact in agreement here, but that should be done with regard to issues such as competition. Shipping is extremely internationally dependent. That the sulphur directive could be implemented and that the industry today clearly recognises that the concerns they had before actually did not come true, I hope to be able to give lessons for further work. But, of course, we should not call home this victory until we have fully implemented the reform, and that is when we also have a functioning sanction system in place. We will not designate the issue as finished until that is the case.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-925	Madam President, I would like One thing I think we should be honest about here. The fact that the introduction of the new, tightened-up rules was easier than we thought and feared was due to the fact that the introduction coincided with a sharp fall in the price of oil, which simply led to a much lower price of ship fuel. It is, of course, one of the reasons why the extra cost was not so high and that it was easier to introduce this system. Then it really is that Swedish shipping is on its toes and is at the forefront when it comes to investing in new technology and new ships. When I last looked at the type of ship that Swedish shipping companies had ordered, about half of them were LNG vessels – they therefore go on natural gas, which is currently the cleanest fuel available, and that is very positive. As moderate here, I believe in the importance of research and unfortunately note a little concern that Sweden is the worst in the Nordic countries when it comes to investing in research linked to shipping. There is every reason to look at the level of appropriations and also how more use can be made of the resources invested in this area. I believe that increased cooperation with our Nordic neighbours would have been worthwhile, as we share a great deal of the ambitions linked to energy and climate with our Nordic neighbours. Otherwise, I call on the government to perhaps look again at the fairway charges, which have caused a great deal of criticism from the industry because they are not environmentally correct in the way they should be and lead to higher costs for shipping in an unfortunate way. Otherwise, Madam President, I look forward to the proposal. It would also have been interesting if the Minister had been able to say something about the levels of fees to be charged.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-930	Madam President, I would like I would just like to thank you briefly for addressing the subject of air pollution from shipping in this House. It is an important issue, on which I appreciate the fact that we have our eyes together.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-931	Madam President, I would like Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me how I view the finding that Swedish climate initiatives are counteracted by effects that occur in the other Member States of the European Union. He has also asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that every invested Swedish chandelier leads to maximum climate benefit. With the current regulatory framework for the EU's trading system, there may be a risk that additional measures for Swedish installations in the EU ETS will allow emissions to increase at installations in other Member States. However, there is no automatic transfer of emission space from Swedish to other installations within the EU. Emissions in the scheme are only affected if installations in other countries actually increase their emissions and, if necessary, buy allowances to cover them. Sweden is making an extensive climate change transition, which has contributed to reduced demand for emission allowances from Swedish installations within the EU ETS. This transition has not yet started in all the Member States. Therefore, Sweden has carried out active and successful work within the EU to tighten up the legislation. On 9 November, the EU Member States and the European Parliament reached a preliminary agreement on the design of the EU ETS for the period 2021 – 2030. An important part of the preliminary agreement is the ongoing cancellation of allowances within the EU ETS from 2023 onwards. The cancellation reduces the total emission space within the EU ETS. The government has also worked actively to create long-term, transparent and equivalent rules within the EU ETS. The trading system needs to reward those companies that take the lead in reducing their emissions, while at the same time any compensation opportunities need to be as restrictive and coherent as possible. In addition to the EU ETS, the Government supports the transition of industry to zero emissions through the long-term investment in the Industrial Sector, which will promote the necessary technological leaps needed in the base industry. In June, the Swedish Parliament decided in a broad majority on new ambitious Swedish climate targets. New investments will be needed to achieve the objectives. As Jesper Skalberg Karlsson mentions, the government is investing a total of SEK 5 billion in climate and environmental investments in 2018. We are making a great effort to achieve the climate policy objectives adopted by Parliament in a broad majority. Several reforms are proposed in the field of transport, where greenhouse gas emissions will decrease by at least 70% by 2030 compared to 2010. A Trafik Analyst report states that only half of the emission reduction will be achieved with current transport instruments and states that different types of new instruments will be needed to achieve the target. We do our part to ensure that Sweden contributes to the fulfilment of the Paris Agreement, partly through national initiatives and partly through international initiatives. The Government is also making a major investment in climate, environment and the sea in the development budget for 2018. Continuous monitoring and evaluation of the development and climate benefits of reforms is important. Our expert authorities are constantly making new estimates to give us the best possible basis for our continued policy development. The government does not use expressions like chandeliers, and this is because, among other things, money invested in a particular measure does not only fulfil one purpose. For example, investments in electrification of vehicles, public transport, increased walking and cycling provide benefits such as reduced emissions of greenhouse gases, particles and other air pollutants and thus less negative impacts on the climate, human health and the environment. Focusing on a specific objective alone does not give an overall picture of the effectiveness of the measure. Compared to previous governments, the difference in the level of ambition in the climate and the environment is clear. In total, the funds for climate and environmental policy in Category 20 are as much as 109 per cent higher in 2018 than in 2014. When we took office in 2014, it had been eight years of underinvestment in climate and environment. Of course it is noticeable, but it is also something that takes time to turn around.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-940	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is 10:05 p.m., and the minister is here to defend his environmental budget. It's welcome. In his reply, the Minister may refer mainly to the EU and the ETS. I would really like to emphasise that the EU is by far our most important environmental organisation. Of course, one can be concerned about what the EU will be in the future, such as what a British withdrawal will mean. After all, Britain is a country with which we have a lot of trade. There may also be some concern about the development of supranationalism. There may be tendencies toward a social pillar becoming, as it were, the cup that runs over. However, the EU remains important, and it plays a role when the EU acts together. It does not matter whether it is in Copenhagen, Paris or Bonn; Europe is a powerful voice. Unfortunately, the EU is sometimes used a little wrong. I am thinking of the commitment that the European Union has taken to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement. It is 100% to be distributed among the Member States of the Union. Then Sweden raises its hand and says: We can take the big burden in emission reductions. This will be problematic, because countries such as Poland and Bulgaria will then be able to make small or no emission reductions. Sweden had, regardless of the burden sharing it took on, worked to reach the national target, which had been set in broad agreement in the Swedish Parliament, to have zero emissions in 2045. The Minister also said a lot about allowances. I believe that it is still important to work with them. There is a concern, at least with me, about when the economy is gradually turning around and German and French industry will scream for less regulation and less tough grip on emission rights in order to compete with, for example, China, which does not have the same system. I very much hope that the Union will then be able to resist. It is problematic that new emission allowances can be printed in that case. The ETS is important, not least for the aviation industry. It has an environmental management effect and, unlike the aviation tax proposed in Sweden, has a more environmentally friendly character than just fiscal character, which is welcome. The environmental budget in Sweden, as the Minister mentions, is large and is about SEK 5 billion. However, it contains many different things, and this is really what my interpellation is all about. For example, let us look at the Energy Agency. When assessing the international efforts it has made and the portfolio it has had in the 21st century, it is concluded that these efforts cost approximately SEK 60 per tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent with which emissions can be reduced. If you look at the Climate Scene, which has not been around for so long, and the studies that have been carried out, you can see that it is then that 1 crown leads to emission reductions of 2.3 kilos. If my math still works, it will be in translation about SEK 400 per tonne of CO2 reductions. My question to the Minister is natural: the environmental budget is large, but is it climate-maximised?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-952	Madam President, I would like The fact that the EU is a strong environmental organisation is something I very much subscribe to. An important part – but too invisible, I would say – of our environmental work is about being very active on the European stage, which we are and which was also the previous government. I do not see any particular differences there. We are active and are indeed present. We have the EU ahead of us for strong and concrete legislation at European level to govern the large single European market. There is a very important function in that dynamic. Many see Sweden as a role model. There are many examples of European rules, European legislation or European initiatives being created after Sweden has taken the initiative and implemented things at home. This also applies to our Scandinavian neighbours, who take the corresponding initiative and leadership role. We often act as traction aids. We have a lot of discussion in the Scandinavian circle about how we can work together, go ahead and then influence the European arena. I think it is important to have this kind of dynamic with you when you hear simplistic reasoning about climate maximizing and a very narrow comparison of the effectiveness of various measures. Leading a transition is about using our money well but also about finding those steps that allow you to go ahead and create a policy that enables technology leaps and transformation, not least in the business world. One example is the initiative – which is also mentioned in the interpellation – where we have started working together with the Swedish base industry for a total transition to fossil freedom. It is difficult to predict exactly how long that transition will take, but the important thing is that we have a common goal and that both the government and the business community are prepared to invest. In this way, we can achieve technology life that can have incredibly positive effects on the environment but also very good effects on our business community. Here's one of my points. We are going to take some home from the EU, but we are not going to take home the argument about burden-sharing. Climate action is, of course, about responsibility, but it is not just a burden. It is also very much about seeing development potential and leading society forward. If you just think of it as a burden, you miss that aspect.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-957	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for that answer. It is clear that in some areas Sweden has gone ahead within the Union. I remember, for example, that when Lena Ek was Minister for the Environment, the former alliance government banned phosphates in laundry detergents, which followed the Union. But I would say that had its basis in research. That's where we really went ahead. One subject that is currently under discussion is glyphosate. Sweden has a rather tough stance there, but the EU's expert authorities say that it is rather exaggerated in terms of science. There are therefore differences between cases when it comes to taking precedence. Sometimes the EU follows on because there are good reasons for it. Sometimes you don't because Sweden has simply been wrong. Regarding the industrial life and the fact that the Swedish base industry will become carbon neutral, I would like to say that the Green Party and the Moderates basically have the same environmental objectives. We support the Environmental Objectives Committee's proposals for objectives and measures. CCS as a possible technique will require some interference from parliament and government. Then you can do it in different ways. I think the Moderates were the first party to say that they wanted to have a CCS strategy for Sweden. Then there are different pots in different budgets, but everyone points out that CCS will require a lot of investment. Then there is the matter of leading a change. The Minister mentions the e-bike premium, which has been debated extensively as an example of this. It is clear that there are different effects of switching from car to bicycle. It's very wide. But the criticism I do not think is due to the fact that it would be wrong to ride a bicycle. I like to ride a bike, too. The difference between the e-bike premium and the super-environmental car premium is the time at which the premium came in. In my world, electric bicycles are already quite a natural feature of the cityscape, at least here in Stockholm. Then the question is whether an initiative that subsidises it further actually leads people to switch to an electric bicycle. For example, the previous Klimp system did not lead to so many new projects. On the other hand, it strengthened the balance sheet of many municipalities when they received funding from above for projects they would have done anyway. There is a certain difference between the super-environmental car premium and the e-bike premium, and this applies to the different dates when state aid has been received for a new product. Generally, it is clear that there are other things that are important besides emissions alone. If we talk climate as Unep – the United Nations Environment Programme – does, we can say that there are three things we need to fix. The first two are emissions and the seas. Here I would like to point out that Sweden has been involved in financing the new treatment plant in Kaliningrad, which has also been welcomed by the Minister for the Environment. I think we need to look more at international efforts, because we can then make a big difference with our environmental budget with rather small means. There is a difference between adding 100 million to a new wastewater treatment plant in Kaliningrad and plugging every single drain in Sweden at the same time as stopping keeping animals. One is completely system-shifting, the other is a healthy climate action. It is clear that we should invest more in international measures where the money is most useful.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-961	Madam President, I would like I want to make it very clear that no previous government has been as active and as committed as this government to how we highlight issues, how we engage and use the entire foreign policy apparatus including our embassies in environmental and climate work and how much we fund environmental and climate action in developing countries and in our region. We are now one of the largest funders per capita of the Green Fund, which is an integral part of the Paris Agreement's success. We also have a large and strengthened commitment in our vicinity to, for example, be able to finance the work with so-called hot spots. The treatment plant in Kaliningrad is probably the most famous, but there are a number of hot spots identified around the Baltic Sea. It's a very effective way of working. We fully agree on that. But again I see that moderate use is being made of this kind of argumentation to do less at home. That's where we're totally different. It concerns the view of active environmental and climate action and, not least – I very much regret – how we will achieve the objectives that we have jointly set. The environmental target committee not only agreed to propose new targets. It also jointly stated in its letter that a new policy with new and strengthened instruments is needed to achieve those objectives. There it is completely silent on the part of the Moderates. It's very weak. Screwing a little in existing systems will not lead to any conversion. That's not enough. From the government's side, we have presented a battery for the transition in the transport sector to begin work. We are very humble and admit that even this will not be enough. But we're on it. We've started a journey. We also do so in close cooperation with the industry. The latest thing that happened was that representatives of the heavy transports in Sweden said: We want more! Give us more economic instruments that pressure us in Sweden to a lot of time in being the best in environmental technology in the world!
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-964	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The tone of Swedish politics is influenced by international trends. No country is vaccinated against factual resistance or extreme opinions. I would like to end the debate by saying something nice. For me, the Green Party is at its best when it welcomes the restructuring of the economy, welcomes new technical solutions and looks positive on the future. The Green Party can be an important green voice, but then you have to be tight with state money. Without budgetary discipline, the environmental debate becomes no more than a competition for who has the best wish list, and it deserves more than that. We see that international climate action costs about SEK 60 per tonne of carbon dioxide we get off, while the climate scale costs about SEK 400. The clamping system, which we want to copy with new investments to some extent, has low additionality, i.e. it will not be new investments but it strengthens the balance sheet for those who would have done them anyway. I am prepared to look at new instruments, but I know that the Environmental Objectives Committee is rather hesitant about dual instruments. This should be carried along with you. As I said, the Green Party and the Moderates are behind the same environmental objectives, but we have different ideas on how to achieve them. I think that's good. This debate should not only be so that the Green Party puts a lunta on Parliament's table, but it deserves to continue regardless of the color of government in the future. I thank you for that tonight.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-970	Madam President, I would like It is incredibly positive that we have a common basic view of climate issues in the Swedish parliament, that we have set a common goal and that we agree that it is urgent. In between, however, there are great differences. Although we seem to agree that there is something very positive in pushing the development forward towards fossil freedom and in that a technological shift in work can lead to positive effects for our business and is about future faith, we do not agree when we seem to think that this will happen on its own, that technology will develop without active work from public institutions and that the transformation will take place without changing economic instruments, removing subsidies and introducing the promotion of what exists. I have met many of the companies that developed within, for example, the Klimp system. I have examples of companies that grew from one-man companies to companies that today have hundreds of employees and operate in a global market. Tell them: No, that wasn't good enough additionality. That your business was developing wasn't worth it. This would be to say no to very much positive developments that have taken place in Sweden and that can happen in the future in particular.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-974	Madam President, I would like Thomas Finnborg has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure a more efficient collection of aluminium cans and pet bottles. The Swedish return system, which requires a pledge for aluminium cans and pet bottles for ready-to-eat drinks, has been a success story when it comes to the collection and disposal of the packaging. Many international delegations come to Sweden to learn more about the Swedish system. The regulations say that 90% should be recycled. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reports that recycling levels are 82 percent for pet bottles and 87 percent for aluminium cans. It is a high result but does not fully meet the targets. The guarantee return system was introduced as an incentive for the consumer to submit the packaging to enable the environmental disposal of the waste. The return system was supplemented in 1994 by a producer responsibility with a special collection system for packaging waste. There are thus complementary schemes for households to choose to leave their aluminium cans and pet bottles. Both aim at the environmental management of the waste. Thomas Finnborg calls for a more efficient collection of aluminium cans and pet bottles, especially for the cans and bottles purchased in another country. The meaning of a deposit system is that the deposit paid by the consumer at the time of purchase is refunded at the time of return. The Swedish return system receives the foreign cans in the pawns and takes care of them in an environmentally friendly way. The system has adapted in this way to enable better care. However, no pledge is paid out in those cases. I have not received any reports that there would be major problems with particular littering in the nature of imported aluminium cans or pet bottles. When it comes to pet bottles, it is a global problem with plastic littering in the oceans. Here the government has decided on a series of measures to prevent and remedy the problems. In addition to a special study to investigate how to reduce the negative environmental impacts of plastics, the Government has also commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management to propose various measures to reduce littering from plastic waste in particular. In particular, the mandate includes reviewing and proposing whether it is appropriate to amend, extend or propose new deposit systems or other compensation models to reduce litter from plastic waste. The assignment must be presented no later than 1 August 2019.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-980	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I agree with the Minister that the Swedish return system has been successful. The other Nordic countries also have a good collection. It is also gratifying that the Government has given a commission to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Maritime and Water Authority to investigate new deposit systems. While we wait for the investigation for two years, we could expand the deposit of plastic bottles. According to Returpack, they have an excess capacity to receive more types of plastic bottles. Here the Swedish Board of Agriculture should speed up the process and develop suitable plastic bottles that can be included in the deposit system. I note that there was nothing in the answer about better coordination of the deposit system in the Nordic countries. A common deposit system in the Nordic countries would not only benefit the environment and consumers in the Nordic countries but also promote the European Commission's work for a European system. Nordic solutions can possibly be exported to the rest of Europe. I can mention that since 2010, the Nordic Council Committee for a Sustainable Nordic Region, in full agreement between the parties, has asked their respective countries' governments to work towards a common deposit system in the Nordic countries, without success, but we are not giving up. About 1 billion aluminium cans and a number of millions of pet bottles are currently outside the deposit systems in the Nordic countries, which corresponds to about twelve tons of aluminium and a number of tons of plastic. Packaging is a cross-border problem as well as CO2 emissions, which is why we need to find solutions across borders. A significant part of these exist in the border trade between Sweden and Denmark and Germany respectively. As far as Sweden is concerned, there is no interest in introducing an agreement with Denmark or Germany, despite the fact that private imports of cans amount to 250 million cans, in particular between Sweden and Denmark and between Sweden and Germany. In addition, pet bottles are also added. As much as 86 percent of privately imported cans and pet bottles end up outside the return system, usually in unsorted garbage or in nature. About 14% are recycled in the normal system. A study in Denmark estimates that about 1 million cans end up unsorted in nature or trash cans. Cans and petit bottles outside the deposit system are recycled to a much lower degree than the packaging covered by the pledge. An easy way would be for Swedish canned beer purchased in Germany to be covered with pledges returned in Swedish vending machines. Denmark is negotiating with Germany to deposit Danish pledges on cans sold in the border trade in Germany. By extending today's deposit system to cover border trade, we can therefore increase recycling rates, save energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions and litter. My follow-up question is: will the Minister work towards better coordination of deposit systems in the Nordic countries and a possible agreement with Germany?
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-990	Madam President, I would like As mentioned here, the largest inflow from other countries in the Nordic countries is from Germany to Denmark. The issue has been discussed between the Nordic governments. The governments have landed in a joint position in the Council of Ministers that they do not believe that a Nordic pledge system should be introduced, but that the issues should be dealt with through agreements to the extent necessary. It is such an agreement that now regulates the largest flow, which is from Germany to Denmark through the border trade. There is no such strong flow from Sweden. There are also no reports that foreign cans are an essential part of littering in a way that gives rise to specific measures. To say something more generally about pledges, we agree that it is an effective system. It works well. Technological developments make it absolutely relevant to look at the extension of pledges to more types of materials and uses. I'm absolutely no stranger to that part. I can tell you that it is also part of the discussions that I am conducting with representatives of the alliance parties in order to achieve a better waste system at large. When we look at waste management, of course, we will look at what works well. The panting system is the brightest shining star in that part. We have some reforms that work much worse. But the deposit system works well, and of course we will ride on that. There has been talk of regulating in the Nordic context. When you have looked at it, you have found that it is not at all as simple as it may appear. There are plenty of obstacles. Not least, the whole problem of Germany would remain. Therefore, the main problem would not be remedied by such a system.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-994	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I can draw some numbers. Trade in the Nordic countries is extensive and has a turnover of billions. Each year, the Nordic countries lose about 10 billion on missing beer sales. It is 52.7 per cent of Nordic consumers who buy their alcohol in the neighbouring country. Some 2,590 jobs disappear on the Nordic domestic market. There are 328.4 million litres of beer purchased in a neighbouring country each year. It uses 20 times more energy to produce new aluminium compared to recycling used aluminium. We have examples from Helsingborg, where I come from. Many Swedes drive in a car, usually four men, to Germany and fill the car with cheap beer. It is usually beer that has been shipped from Sweden but with a different bar code than the one we have at home in Sweden that ends up in the border trade in Germany. Then you drive down with the car, bring it home and fill the whole car. It's not very environmentally friendly, I think. The environmental impact is around 291 000 tonnes of CO2 per year. The unclaimed pledge at national level is lucrative, and there is no authority to monitor where this money goes in the return system. A number of years ago, the National Board of Trade issued a report on the issue of pledges. In our vision, a coordinated system could be designed like the national systems currently in place in the Nordic countries, but on a European level. ..................................................... I believe that there are conditions for a common deposit system for pet bottles and cans in the Nordic countries. Does the Minister think that enough is being done to reduce border barriers for consumers on the issue of pledges? It is also a barrier to borders.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-998	Madam President, I would like There was a question of supervisory responsibility. It is the Swedish Board of Agriculture that has the central supervisory responsibility for the regulation on return systems for plastic bottles and metal cans. The supervisory authority has the right to impose environmental sanctions of up to SEK 50 000 in connection with the supervision if it turns out that someone imports soft drinks or aluminium cans without having registered them with Returnpack or has been granted permission to have their own return system. It's not a lawless country. There is a possibility of supervision here. If you have both the Member and I lived in Skåne, you are well acquainted with the border trade with Germany. The picture painted is also consistent with the statistics. The largest introduction of different types of plastic bottles within and outside the deposit system to the Nordic countries including Sweden comes from Germany. Therefore, it is a good first step with an agreement between Germany and Sweden. A Nordic pledge system would simply not solve that issue. Without prejudging anything, however, I dare to say that it is positive and good that there have been a little cautious such discussions at European level. Perhaps it would be a more appropriate solution if we were to talk about visions.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-1001	Madam President, I would like Denmark is a little at the forefront. I last read in some newspaper today that they had made some sort of agreement with Germany in order to be able to put on Danish pledges. The Germans choose what it should be on, and then you get it back when you come back to Denmark. During the trip in the Nordic Council, I have met the brewery industry, Returnpack and similar activities in the Nordic countries. They are what I understood from the conversations very negative. They think it works satisfactorily. Well, let's agree with that. The problems they raised were different tax systems on the pledges in the different countries and that different organisations handle the pawning. Some Nordic countries are better at taking care of returns and others are a bit worse. I believe that Sweden and Norway are best at this. The industry was in favour of better informing citizens about the importance of collecting cans and plastic bottles and of sorting them properly. We should inform you of that. It looks very different in different municipalities how to sort. If you sort aluminum with sheet metal and mix it, we don't get a full recycling. One could even imagine helping to set up some form of collection depots at the borders so that people can leave it before they go shopping again, to collect it properly. My last question is: will the Minister work to get a better understanding of how important it is that we collect cans and pet bottles and that we sort them properly? I think it's flawed. You don't see much information today. There's something about Pantamera on TV and a little bit of that but not much.
i-3e3fd0f6f87aa274-1005	Madam President, I would like On the last question, I can certainly answer in the affirmative. But it should be in a wider context of the importance of sanitation. In recent years I have lacked information that underlines that it is inappropriate and not least illegal to litter and that littering leads to very real effects on the environment. It is not a small question but a very relevant environmental issue, apart from the aesthetic and how boring it looks in the environment. In the draft budget that we hope the Parliament will adopt very soon, there is a special initiative for increasing information on the issues of littering and specifically the risks of spreading plastic in nature. I fully share the view that the information needs to be strengthened and targeted at different groups in society. I see a need to uniform the waste system in Sweden so that it becomes more similar. Today it is not any human being who only lives within a municipality, or very few. I also see the need to strengthen waste management where litter occurs. More and more of our belt is created in public environments linked to, for example, fast food trade. It will continue to be so. It is important that waste management is included in the development that is where people live and work.
