i-103a66b009041970-8	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson both what measures she intends to take to make it easier for more people to take jobs elsewhere, and why the government is delaying the construction of an eastern connection in Stockholm. The interpellation has been handed over to me. The government's priorities are jobs, school and climate, and the government's goal is for Sweden to have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. The national traffic law-wide plan for the period 2014-2025, decided by the previous government, has a total of SEK 2 billion allocated to the project for an eastern connection in Stockholm for the implementation of investigation work including planning. In the directives of 1 July 2014, the so-called Swedish negotiation is also tasked with analysing and testing possible financing solutions for an eastern connection in Stockholm. The Swedish hearing will be held on 31 December 2017. The Government submitted an infrastructure bill to the Riksdag last autumn with proposals for a historically large investment in Sweden's infrastructure. An overall starting point for the bill is that a well-functioning social structure, where the transport system is part of it, is the basis for access to, among other things, jobs and housing throughout the country. Certain priority societal challenges have also been identified in the bill, where the transport system plays a major role. There, the government highlights investment in infrastructure for increased housing construction, to improve the conditions for business and to strengthen employment throughout the country. An important starting point is that Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries and that the environmental quality objectives will be achieved.
i-7XsTfoFy1jQoTFb7q9zCAA	On 23 March 2017, the Government adopted a directive on action plans for the period 2018 – 2029. This means that Trafikverket has been commissioned to develop a proposal for a national traffic law-crossing plan for the development of the transport system and that the county planners will develop proposals for county plans. Trafikverket will present the proposal for a new national plan to the Government Office, the Ministry of Industry, by 31 August 2017 and the county planners will submit their proposals to the county plans by 31 January 2018. The action plan identifies the actions to be prioritised. This work will examine and analyse new projects and measures at both national and regional level. The issue raised by Niklas Wykman concerning Ö stlig kontakt i Stockholm should be taken into account in this work. I do not, therefore, wish to anticipate this process and to comment on individual measures.
i-103a66b009041970-12	Mr President, I would like to It was a long statement with many words and sentences but with the essential conclusion that the Minister does not want to speak. Then you might wonder why it sounded so much before. Mr President, I would like to Of course, as an opposition politician, I can say that this is the worst Minister for Infrastructure Sweden has ever had, and this is a disastrous failure. However, I have to say that the link has been planned since the 19th century, so the current Minister for Infrastructure is not exceptionally bad with regard to the Eastern Connection. The question has been in Sweden for a while. There were big competitions in the 40's about how the connection would be built and so on. I do not think that the government in this particular privacy is disastrously bad. Rather, there has been a need in the Stockholm region since the 1800s and onwards that has not been met. It's more of a matter of lying on, and it's time to get to grips with the issue – especially given that the Stockholm area is growing a lot. Mr President, I would like to It is difficult to ask for an answer to the entire interpellation from Anna Johansson because it essentially takes into account the importance of commuting for work. The intervention was also addressed to the Minister for Labour. There will be more Stockholmers, but it is not certain that the jobs will show up where the housing is built. It is therefore important to have a coherent and good infrastructure throughout the county to make it work. It is, of course, also a question of having as environmentally efficient transport as possible, just as the Minister for Infrastructure mentions. What many are worried about is that this project will not be a further betrayal of the region, not only against Nacka and Värmdö, but against the entire Stockholm region as a whole. The Minister does not want to allay this concern in his response. On the contrary, she adds to the concern that there is yet another betrayal of the Stockholm region. These are the Stockholmers quite tired of. There has been a lot on that scale of breakpoints, foregone road investments, betrayal of frequency on Citybanan, flight tax, 3:12 rules, the threat to all welfare solutions in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, the equalization tax and so on. Mr President, I would like to Why is it so dangerous, Anna Johansson, that as politicians sometimes anticipate the work? There was a long harang on the theme of the ball is round, all racers should run and so on. Then it boils down to the fact that the Minister does not want to precede the work. But I imagine that it is still the core of politics to precede the development of society. The task assigned to it by the voters is well to point to a direction and will something. What is the government's general will? Does the Government want to see an eastern connection in Stockholm, or is the Government sitting completely in the lap of the Green Party, who thinks that in the long term it should not be driven a single car in Sweden? Can the Government imagine that there will be an Eastern connection? Would the government be happy if it became an Eastern connection? It would nevertheless be good to have some kind of indication on the part of the Government.
i-103a66b009041970-19	Mr President, I would like to Politics is both to want and to know, and politics is more than anything to prioritise. The infrastructure bill that I mentioned in my response to Niklas Wykman describes some of the orientations for the next planning period. It sets out the direction and will of the government. However, it seems a bit foolish to first give Trafikverket a commission to weigh various important objects against each other and then anticipate the work of pointing out that it and that object are most important. It would also mean that my ears would get hot. It is not only Stockholm that feels that the infrastructure is lagging behind. On the contrary, it is felt in all the regions of Sweden that it is underdeveloped there. Other regions tend to point out that Stockholm has received so much. Of course, we can discuss what is true or what is not, but we can see that the needs and wishes in this area far exceed even the new and historically ambitious framework that will be available. This means that it will be a hard priority work. I could, of course, express myself specifically on the subject of a close relationship, but that would automatically mean that it would be expected that the government would express an opinion on other objects. Then we wouldn't have had to give a mission to the Finnish Transport Administration. The answer is still that in the 2018 national plan it will be clear which objects the government intends to prioritise. In the bill, labour commuting and the possibility of efficient passenger transport between housing and work is one of the most important directions. The infrastructure has a unique ability to broaden labour market areas, to connect localities with each other and to create the conditions for business start-ups by providing businesses with a greater mass of skills, but also by giving job seekers access to a larger labour market. The contribution of infrastructure to more dynamic labour market regions is therefore beyond doubt. Therefore, priority will be given to such items that contribute to labour market enlargement and improved commuting opportunities. It is included as a prerequisite in the assignment to the Finnish Transport Administration. Another similar priority is housing construction. Sweden currently has a housing shortage in almost all municipalities. Now more is being built than has been done for about 40 years, since the days of the million-dollar programme. But during the entire period of bourgeois government, very few homes were built, which today hampers growth opportunities not least in our metropolitan areas. Taking into account the need for new infrastructure and linking it with housing potential is another way to create efficient transport opportunities for people, not least in our metropolitan areas. I might add that the government has committed a new metro route in Stockholm which I think would be extremely valuable precisely in order to increase commuting opportunities. I have not heard either the Green Party or anyone else say that one should not drive a single car in Sweden. On the other hand, the entire government has the ambition that more trips will be made by public transport and with more climate-smart and also more surface-efficient solutions than passenger cars. The Moderates don't seem too interested in it, and it's boring.
i-103a66b009041970-26	Mr President, I would like to After all, it is liberating that we recognise ourselves in the format of debate. There came one of those onelins taught at Bommersvik to all the diligent Social Democratic party workers. Here there was something about the pace of construction during the alliance years and the pace of construction now. It is probably a little deep water for Anna Johansson to go out on believing that one should have the same building pace in the worst financial and economic crisis that the world has seen since the depression as in a high-burning boom as the one we have now. I do not think that the Swedish people are really on Anna Johansson's side in the assessment that it is reasonable to believe that it should be that way or even that it would be good if it were that way. But Anna Johansson will have to bring her voters and course leaders to Bommersvik in the future. What concerns, however, is that the Minister is unable to give an answer or an indication. Will the betrayal of Cityban be repeated? It was promised 24 departures that became 20 who became 16. It is a constant dismantling of the capacity in Stockholm. I come from Kalmar, a beautiful city with many nice sides and amazing people. But Kalmar is not the capital of Sweden, and it is not possible to compare a country from Ystad and Kalmar to Kiruna, Boden and Östersund. All of Sweden is naturally well off because S verige has a dynamic, growing and creative capital region. This makes it unfortunate when Anna Johansson stands here to set a good, growing, safe and strong capital against having solutions that work throughout the country. It is not how politics or community-building works, it is about putting one region against another region, it is about wanting to develop the whole country – and our capital, which is important for it to work throughout the country. We are what it seems on the way to a betrayal of the Stockholm area. As I said before, Anna Johansson is not a catastrophic Minister of Infrastructure when it comes to an Eastern connection. This has been done since the 19th century without completing it, and it is highly desirable that it be completed. But Stockholm's hostility in this government is overall record high. It is about the breakpoint, i.e. increased income tax, which is seriously affecting the Stockholm region. It is about the dismantling of the RUT deduction which is seriously affecting the Stockholm region. This is an unwillingness to invest in roads, which is seriously affecting the Stockholm region. It is about the dismantling of the capacity in the City Line that will hit the Stockholm region hard. It is a matter of airline tax that will affect the Stockholm region. It is about the deterioration of 3:12 rules that will affect the Stockholm region. It is about the study of limitations of entrepreneurship in welfare that affects the entire welfare model we have in the Stockholm region. It is about the equalization tax that sends billions of SEK to mismanaged Gothenburg and mismanaged Malmö from well-managed Stockholm region without contributing to Sweden becoming better. The anti-Semitism that has been entrenched in the entire government's policy is remarkable and harmful to the whole of Sweden. The Minister for Infrastructure is standing here today and cannot say anything positive about the Stockholm region. She just says she can't say anything positive about the Stockholm region, because then they'll be pissed off in the rest of Sweden. Then I think she makes a big misinterpretation of how people in Sweden are possessed. It is clear that I who live in Stockholm and come from Kalmar want it to be better also in Kiruna. I think we have that connection in our country. We do not have to put different things against each other, but we can want to move forward together.
i-103a66b009041970-33	Mr President, I would like to Stockholm is very important to Sweden, but Stockholm is not the only part of Sweden that has great needs. Therefore, perhaps it is not so much a matter of pitting different parts of the country against each other. On the contrary, the government stresses the importance of being able to live and operate throughout the country and that we should have good accessibility throughout the country. It is even parliamentaryly bound in the transport policy objectives. That is what we are going to do with infrastructure policy: meeting the need for accessibility throughout the country, including metropolitan areas and including Stockholm. I think quite a few Stockholmers appreciate that more housing is being built. It is one of the really big problems in this region – it has been built far too little for far too long. I can inform Niklas Wykman that housing construction sank as a stone in connection with the removal of subsidies quite early after the then bourgeois government took office in 2006. There was something called Odell plates, where the construction of houses had begun to make it before the last subsidies were removed. Then the residential building was very still. In a recession, one can choose to boost the economy by building more homes when there is otherwise a risk that the housing market is hampered. You can also choose to invest more in education and training to equip people for a future boom. Or you can choose to continue with unfunded tax cuts for those with the highest incomes. That is what politics is all about: choosing and prioritising. This government's priorities are different from those of the then bourgeois government. I am not ashamed of this; on the contrary, I believe that many people in Stockholm appreciate that we are now ensuring that welfare is provided with the necessary resources, that there are fewer children in children's groups in preschool and that there are considerably more teachers in school. Although there are more students in school, it is higher teacher density. I think we appreciate the additions made to maternity care and health care in Stockholm. I think most Stockholmers, like all other Swedes, want a well-functioning welfare. Nor is it possible to give priority to everything. I think Niklas Wykman actually knows that. There is no money to give priority to everything. Therefore, it is inevitable that different objects will be put against each other in a priority for the next national plan. The city track is a story of its own. It will bring an enormous amount of capacity. On the other hand, during a transitional period the City Tunnel will have to be used to relieve the load when reconstructing the hornet waist. I also believe that Niklas Wykman really knows. But it's another interpellation debate, so let's take it on another occasion. Stockholm is important, but this does not mean that Östlig läffighet will of course be a priority in the next national plan. There we will prioritise the objects that provide the highest social benefit and that best contribute to more jobs throughout the country, increased accessibility, better climate benefits and good development in Stockholm and the rest of the country.
i-103a66b009041970-41	Mr President, I would like to The Stockholm region has to pay a high price for a mismanaged Gothenburg and a mismanaged Malmö, where we see how exclusion, crime, unemployment and failed integration have huge consequences, not only for the municipalities' economies but also for how people feel and have it. There is a drain of resources from Stockholm to finance a mismanaged policy in Gothenburg and Malmö. There is now a fear that this will also apply to infrastructure investments in the future – that more resources will be moved from the Stockholm region to social democraticly managed municipalities in Malmö and Gothenburg, for example, a transfer that would be unfortunate. Of course we should have good infrastructure investments throughout the country, but to risk impoverishing Stockholm in this way is not good for Sweden. Eastern connection is good for Nacka and Värmdö and for the possibilities to commute to work in the Stockholm region. It is good for the whole of Sweden that we have a capital city and a capital city area that works well and provides attractive jobs and housing opportunities for people. Mr President, I would like to When Anna Johansson comes to review economic policy, it will be very unfortunate. Sweden has received credit from the OECD, the IMF, the European Commission and the World Bank, has been named The Nordic Light and won the prize for the best finance minister. The list can be made as long as possible – the whole world agrees that the crisis management that took place in Sweden belonged to the absolute best in the world. That Anna Johansson in retrospect would try to make it better somehow I find it very difficult to imagine. Instead of talking about things that may not be true, make sure to build a Ö stile connection!
i-103a66b009041970-46	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if Niklas Wykman has been in Gothenburg or Malmö recently, but I can recommend a visit to both cities. It is dynamic, growing and future-oriented cities, with mycket exciting state building and, in terms of the Gothenburg area, enormous growth and actually currently lower unemployment than Storstockholm. This is not common; normally the capital is usually the growth engine. But at present, Gothenburg is also the one that draws the economy in Sweden, not least because there is a lot of manufacturing industry. It is not gone at all, but makes a major contribution to our common welfare. Eastern connection may be an object that should be prioritised. One could possibly wonder why the then government did not do so when it had the chance in national plan 2014. We intend to await the Finnish Transport Administration's assessments. We have an expert authority and have full confidence that it can make the necessary balances. After that, of course, we shall make a political assessment. I can also inform Niklas Wykman that the City of Stockholm is also governed by social democracy. If this is what would determine where infrastructure investments end up, Niklas Wykman can therefore be absolutely safe. Now it is not the way we prioritise, but the goal is to prioritise the objects that provide the conditions for high growth, more jobs and a better climate throughout the country. It may not always be more roads that contribute to this, but we will take a position on this in spring 2018.
i-103a66b009041970-50	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to build a four track between Uppsala and Stockholm during the next infrastructure period. The Government submitted an infrastructure bill to the Riksdag last autumn with proposals for a historically large investment in Sweden's infrastructure. In the bill, the Government proposed that the financial framework for the next twelve-year planning period, 2018 – 2029, should increase by more than SEK 100 billion, to a total of SEK 622.5 billion. The Riksdag decided in accordance with the Government's direction. On 23 March 2017, the Government adopted a directive for action plans for the period 2018 – 2029. This means that Trafikverket has been commissioned to develop a proposal for a national traffic law-crossing plan for the development of the transport system and that the county planners will develop proposals for county plans. Trafikverket will present the proposal for a new national plan for the Government Office (Ministry of Enterprise) by 31 August 2017 and the county planners will present their proposals for county plans by 31 January 2018. The action plan identifies the actions to be prioritised. This work will examine and analyse new projects and measures at both national and regional level. The question Mikael Oscarsson raises regarding four track between Uppsala and Stockholm should be taken into account in this work. I do not, therefore, wish to anticipate this process and to comment on individual measures.
i-103a66b009041970-53	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Infrastructure. This is not about anticipating Trafikverket but about ensuring that Trafikverket has the right means to build four tracks. In Upsala Nya Tidning on 16 May, the project manager says that Trafikverket has a strong desire to build lighthouse tracks between Uppsala and Stockholm. They understand exactly what benefits this would bring for the labour market region, commuters and the environment, but it is the money that is missing. The Minister says that the budget is being increased by over 100 billion – that is good. We Christian Democrats match this in our budget. But should we not give priority to the route that is the country's busiest? The facts of the case are that 16 000 people go to Stockholm every day, and 7 000 go north – a total of 23 000, that is. This is a route with problems in the form of delays, even though it is the busiest in the country. I think the Minister for Infrastructure has noticed, perhaps when she is flying to Gothenburg, that there are at least four tracks to Arlanda. But then there are only two tracks. The commuter trains, with many stops, the long-distance trains and the freight trains operate exactly the same track. I'm sure the Minister for Infrastructure has noticed that it is not possible to overtake this route, so you have to adapt to the slowest train. Current track capacity does not meet the needs of a growing capital region; the ceiling is being hit within a ten-year period. That's where the question comes in. As early as next spring, you will establish the infrastructure plan, and what is not there will not be built until after 2030. So it's very important that the government takes a stand and realizes the facts of the case. There is an obvious solution to these problems, and it is spelled four-track, Mr President. With four tracks on the entire route between Uppsala and Stockholm, both freight trains and long-distance trains as well as commuter trains can run the route at the same time. Today, at most eight trains per hour can travel, but with four-tracks the capacity would increase by 75 percent. Fourteen trains could go every hour. This is supported not only by Uppsala, but 7 of 21 counties have already taken a stand and say that this prevents not only Uppsala and Stockholm but also Dalarna, Gävleborg and all counties north. If we want housing to be built and the labour market region to work, then this is a very important issue. It is not good enough just to duck, but you have to take the facts and understand that the responsible investigators at Trafikverket are already clear that this goes together. They have calculated that in ten years the money has been saved, the Minister for Infrastructure. This is a very important investment. The question is where the government stands on the issue of four track between Uppsala and Stockholm. Will this be invested in the next infrastructure plan?
i-103a66b009041970-62	Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, we are planning infrastructure in such a way that we have a rolling 12-year plan, which, so to speak, we are rolling ahead of us by deciding on a new planning period every four years. The last decided national plan was adopted by the government in 2014. Then it was not this Minister of Infrastructure but a moderate Minister of Infrastructure. The decision was based on an infrastructure bill decided by the then government. There is no money set aside for four tracks between Uppsala and Stockholm. We are suffering from the fact that we have been underinvesting in rail for quite a long time. It has been both a lack of investment and perhaps even more a lack of maintenance. It is not only the early bourgeois government that is guilty of this, but responsibility rests with governments back in time as well. It is nevertheless a little remarkable that the then Finance Minister, who was just hailed here, said in all seriousness that Sweden had overinvested in rail. This may be reflected in the priorities set out in the 2014 National Plan. The next opportunity for a government to decide on a national traffic cross-border plan is 2018. This is an opportunity that this government intends to take advantage of. On the other hand, I do not intend to anticipate this work by promising priority to be given to one or the other object, because that would make it impossible to assess the whole need in the whole country at that time. This, of course, is not the same as saying that Ö styläning, lighthouse track to Uppsala or any other of the objects that it is interpellled about in the Riksdag would be unimportant or not prioritised. It is an expression of our following the process of infrastructure planning in Sweden. The Government will return in spring 2018 with the priorities we intend to make for the next planning period, 2018 – 2029. However, if you are dissatisfied with the fact that four tracks to Uppsala are not included in the current national plan, you must go to someone else with that dissatisfaction. This need has not arisen since 2014, but it was quite well known at the time.
i-103a66b009041970-69	Mr President, I would like to It is notable: It is always someone else's fault. However, I can inform the Minister for Infrastructure that she is actually the Minister for Infrastructure, and it is indeed the government that is the government. Decisions taken next spring are crucial. If the four-track planning is not included then it will only be after 2030. That would be very damaging. This with housing is very important to solve. There is a great lack of housing in this region. There's a special investigator working on this. He has pointed out in particular that this four-track thing is important if we are to achieve the goals. Uppsala and Arlanda alone are expected to build up to 100,000 new homes in the long term. In the southern parts of Uppsala, 45,000 homes are planned. Four tracks could enable a newly opened station location in Bergsbrunna, just south of Uppsala. In Knivsta at least 10,000 more commutable dwellings are planned. If Sweden is to function and continue to have good economic development, we must have housing, and it must be possible to commute. Then it is bad planning and anticipation not to see that Sweden's busiest railway hits the capacity ceiling. This is not about me as a Member of Parliament from Uppsala standing here speaking for my sick mother, but this is a major concern for a large part of Sweden's county. It is therefore important not only to say that someone else would have done this four, eight or ten years ago. Today is the day when the government has to realise that the responsible authority itself counts it home. However, the responsible authority cannot do this on its own; it must receive orders from the government. Anna Johansson's party partner in Uppsala, county councillor Bertil Kinnunen says – it's not always us in the Christian Democrats who like to read aloud what some social democrat has said in the speaker's chair, but I actually think that this deserves to be heard – that there is a huge economic and environmental potential in this project, and it requires the Swedish Transport Administration to have the go-ahead to carry it out. He says the same thing as I do, namely that the Finnish Transport Administration believes that this investment would pay off in ten years in travel time profits. "There will be more housing, more jobs and reduced emissions in a cohesive and more competitive Sweden, says Bertil Kinnunen." He's right. It is important that the government, which is in charge, now takes on board the good arguments for including four-tracks in the plan to be established as early as next spring. I would like to come back to my question: What measures do the government and the responsible Minister Anna Johansson want to take to ensure that four tracks between Uppsala and Stockholm can be established during the next infrastructure planning period?
i-103a66b009041970-78	Mr President, I would like to This is what we will tell you when we make decisions and the next planning period in spring 2018. After all, there is work going on with pre-studies and planning of this route. I can see that the conditions for building, among other things, four tracks between Stockholm and Uppsala and other important objects around the country have increased dramatically with a social democratic and environmental party government, which has actually increased the framework by 100 billion, which will of course mean a big difference compared to the current plan. The priority items will be returned to spring 2018. It is the Swedish Transport Administration that has been commissioned, based on a number of criteria, including housing construction, labour market region enlargements, climate benefits and of course also socio-economic calculations, to present a proposal that the government will then process and take a final position in spring 2018. It is possible that Bertil Kinnunen and Mikael Oscarsson get right also in the sense that this should be prioritised over other objects. But in order to make that assessment you need to get an overall picture, and this is exactly what the Swedish Transport Administration has now been commissioned to do. I look forward very much to the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal, which will come in August. Then I will also meet representatives of all the regions of Sweden to try to get as good a picture as possible of which objects are most important. Then I have to say that it is gratifying that during this parliamentary term both Christian Democrats and Moderates have such a great deal of commitment in both rail and housing. This is welcomed by this government. It would have been even better if this commitment had existed when you had the government power, but it is very good that it exists now.
i-103a66b009041970-83	Mr President, I would like to I can rejoice Anna Johansson that I have had the privilege of being a Member of Parliament for 19 years. This is certainly not the first time that I have spoken on these issues. So it's nothing new. The facts of the case are that we need to build our share of the 700 000 new homes needed by 2025. If this is to happen, we must strengthen track capacity before 2030. Then planning must begin today, and it must be found as an object in the national infrastructure plan decided by the government in spring 2018. It's a matter of forward planning. The Minister for Infrastructure says she'll talk to the different regions. But I can tell you that 7 out of 21 counties have already taken a position on this project. This is something that benefits the whole of Sweden and is of great importance to our competitiveness. Internationally, it is something that helps Sweden. UNT wrote about this some time ago. Then the headline was: The money is not enough for four tracks. The question, to which I would like answers from the Minister for Infrastructure, is: what about that? Is the money enough?
i-103a66b009041970-87	Mr President, I would like to Yes, that is exactly what the Swedish Transport Administration has been commissioned to look at: What will the money be enough for? Which of the most urgent and important projects and objects around the country should they be sufficient for? It is not at all a question of praying for your sick mother; it is a question of regional policy, companies, municipal politicians and ordinary citizens throughout the country seeing that there is a need. There needs to be more iron roads built. It needs to be better accessibility. We need to expand public transport. We need to develop our entire transport system. You plead for the urgent objects you see in your neighborhood. It's nothing weird. It's perfectly natural. The Finnish Transport Agency will now see which of these urgent measures will be contained within the historically large framework that the Riksdag has decided on for infrastructure investments the next planning period. Before Trafikverket has assessed different objects in relation to each other, we can't say: That's the object to get rid of just no matter how it qualifies in relation to the others. Nor is there any justification for saying that there is no money. There's money. There's 622 1⁄2 billion. That's a lot of money. But what they will do will be the government's decision on spring 2018. The then government made decisions in 2014: There was no money for four tracks between Uppsala and Stockholm. I hope to be able to give another message, but I will get back to you with spring 2018.
i-103a66b009041970-90	Mr President, I would like to Erik Ottoson has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to include municipalities and county councils in the work of making available and using open data. The Government works together with Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, SKL, for a more open administration that supports innovation and participation. Within the state and municipalities of Sweden there are large amounts of data that can create great value for both the public and private sectors and individuals. I therefore share Ottoson's view that it is also important for municipalities and county councils to participate in the work of making available and using open data. The government wants to speed up work on open data and has taken a series of measures to take steps towards a more open and innovative public administration. On 16 June 2016, the National Archives were commissioned to, among other things, manage and further develop the national open data portal and the web guide re-use.se. The portal and guidance can be used by all public actors, including municipalities and county councils, to facilitate the availability and use of open data. The Government has decided to sponsor the Hack for Sweden competition with funding during 2017. At Hack for Sweden, innovators and creators compete to build smart solutions using open data from public actors. More and more municipalities are participating in the competition, and this year Sweden's Municipalities and County Council, SKL, coordinated ten municipalities that have chosen to participate. SKL's E-flowerbox survey also shows that the proportion of municipalities providing open data increased from 8 to 28 per cent from 2014 to 2016. The government recently decided on a number of assignments in an initiative to accelerate development in this area. Among other things, the Swedish Agency for Growth has been tasked with promoting the use of open data and data-driven innovation. The mission includes developing a platform for challenge-driven innovation that public actors can use for new solutions. Statskontoret was commissioned on 16 April 2014 to follow up the work of state and municipal authorities in making documents available for re-use. The mission shall be reported by 19 January 2018 at the latest, and the Government will then assess whether it is appropriate to take further action.
i-103a66b009041970-96	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We are a small group of politicians who find administrative policy exciting. And we are an even smaller group of politicians who find digital governance policy exciting. I will therefore begin by clarifying to any audience what open data really is. Open data is information provided in an open format that anyone can read at any time in their most new and updated form, preferably through a machine. In this way you can search large amounts of information to obtain valuable statistics or find trends. Forecasts can even be made on the basis of the data that can be accessed. The Swedish state administration and Swedish municipalities and county councils are on huge amounts of data. That is why the Government and I are here to discuss today. Having said that, I would once again like to thank the Government for its answer. We have had debates in the past on this subject. I feel that the Government and I are essentially moving in the same direction. What emerges from this answer and which is new, I also think is good. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Government whether we could at least jointly open up the discussion about taking this forward to the next step. The pace needs to increase. As the Government describes, 20 more municipalities have been added in round rolls in two years' time that have chosen to publish some form of data segment in the form of open data. That speed is too low. If we are to be the IT nation that we all think we should be, it must be higher. Then the question is whether it is not time to at least start looking at the legislative tool, partly because it is difficult to coordinate a huge number of municipalities. We have 290 municipalities and a bunch of county councils and regions. I do not know how many there were at the last count, because there will be regions from time to time – they are merged. But there are very many who should be coordinated, and that is not the easiest task. Nor is it the easiest task to enthuse all these people at once. Then the question is whether it is not time to start looking at the legislation on disclosure and confidentiality and to create the third option, which is not a public document to be requested and which is not a confidential document and which is therefore not to be disclosed, but something that is open at the outset. It is a matter of legislative space for certain forms of information that should always be made available in data format. Of course, you have to look at how it should be done in technical terms and how to determine which data sheet should be included in such legislation. Therefore, my question to the Government is: Is the Government willing to start looking at the question of presenting such a bill to the Riksdag? In this context, some privacy balances will have to be struck. When a lot of information about large amounts of people is published – it may not be at person level but in that way you can see patterns – you obviously need to make integrity balances. This could be done in such an investigation. That's why I'm very interested in hearing the government's thoughts on the subject.
i-103a66b009041970-104	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by thanking Erik Ottoson for his commitment to Parliament on issues relating to the digitisation of public administration and open data. It is extremely valuable for this debate to be raised in the Parliamentary Assembly and for the government to have the pressure to work on these issues. We have fallen behind in this area. This is strange given that Sweden has really good conditions to work with open data. Given the long tradition of openness, transparency and publicity that has characterised Swedish administration, we should be the world leader in open data. We are not, Mr President. We see a clear trend over the past 10 – 15 years: We have fallen behind in comparison with other comparable countries. Against this background, the government has decided to step up the pace, just as Erik Ottoson is also at work, and a couple of weeks ago we decided on a package that involves assignments to several government agencies to take the necessary measures within their respective areas of responsibility to speed up the availability and re-use of open data. However, that is not enough, Mr President, and that is why we have also decided to make ourselves the subject of an external evaluation by the OECD. We have now funded and commissioned the OECD to evaluate Sweden and Sweden's open data policy and compare us with comparable countries that have succeeded better. I am convinced that this evaluation will be entirely indicative of how we can then move forward and take the next step in the work on open data. Nor do I rule out the need to use the tools mentioned by Erik Ottoson with regard to mandatory legislation. I am surprised that there are forces in the administration that see open data as a threat to personal integrity, because, as Erik Ottoson says, we can actually combine the re-use of open data with the protection of personal privacy. What is needed is governance and coordination of public administration, and for me, the first step is to work with government authorities and ensure that they work effectively with open data. In addition to the decisions made a few weeks ago, we were able to take a position in the 2017 budget on a long-term approach to financing national digital services and national digital a basic data. Under this new regime, government authorities exchange basic data free of charge, which has not been the case in the past. It is very strange that we have invested energy in state authorities paying each other fees to use basic data that is available within the Swedish state. We believe that this needs to be expanded. We see that chargeable basic data lead to unnecessary public administration and increased costs for cases. We also need to work sector-specifically with open data, which is why we commissioned Lantmäteriet to map benefits and costs that arise at different levels of government and in society as a result of the agency working with open data. Lantmäteriet has recently completed the assignment and shows many different benefits throughout society with open geodata. This is just one example in one sector. This shows that we will continue to have to work on the funding issues. These are, of course, issues that are being prepared in the Government Office within the framework of the budgetary process, and ultimately the political assessments that need to be made with regard to budget priorities. But it is quite clear that if we are to take the next step with open data, the funding structure is also a central issue in opening up the Swedish administration.
i-103a66b009041970-114	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for the additional answer. The Government has the best governance in its agencies, and I feel that he returns a little bit to them and the assignments that have been given to them. It's a good mission in all its essentials. However, the main point of the interpellation is how we get the local government sector on the train. There, the state authorities can of course be a driving force – absolutely. If you go into oppnadata.se you can see that there are several municipalities that have chosen to share information. But there's a pretty big problem. I sat and played a little bit with this, because so nerdy I am, and noted that these municipalities share very different kinds of data. If you look at the geographic data that the Government is looking at, it is some municipality that shares with you where you have parking spaces, whether it is p-record or what parking fee applies there. Someone else is interested in sharing where you have trash cans, and someone else is more interested in sharing where you have exercise paths. Nowhere can you create the great benefits that open data actually brings if you manage to publish similar data on a broad scale and, above all, in the same format, which is what we want to achieve. Therefore, the number of municipalities providing open data in some form is a somewhat treacherous measure. I think you can think a little more about deepening how to really measure how far we have come. In my world, when I go in and look at this, we have not really come to the point where you can actually make use of this, but everything is still in its infancy, more or less on square one. There are a few ways to tackle the issue. I think the Council of State is onto something important when he talks about the fear of publishing things like that. At present, when a person requests a public document, there is, of course, an examination of the extradition, and in general, there may be a certain degree of certainty in the fact that you always have to make a trial before giving out a document or, if you need it, keeping it confidential. This is not the case with open data. I think we are a little overly concerned about this. As the Government says, Sweden is a leading country in terms of transparency and will remain so. I don't know if the Prime Minister could see it before he stepped up in the speaker's chair, but on that subject I did a little polo thing and took a photo of my notes before the debate, tweeted them and tagged the Government, precisely in the sign of transparency. I thought my notes couldn't be very secret. But basically I think that we politicians too are quite secretive towards each other – more than we sometimes need to be. I believe that there is a mistrust to overcome precisely in terms of information and open data as such. Of course, in the form of open data, we should not publish large sjok with information that may be sensitive. But where we have parking spaces, trash cans and exercise paths can not be particularly sensitive but perhaps rather something that should be made more public. This could be real estate boundaries, weather data and one and the other. My question to the Government is: how does the government act to ensure that not only more municipalities engage in this, but that they also engage in publishing the same kind of data in the same way? How do you work to overcome the mistrust that I think many feel about a very open form of government?
i-103a66b009041970-124	Mr President, I would like to It is not possible to work with open data without what Erik Ottoson mentions, namely standardization. It is only when we have a standardization of open data that these open data can be re-used in the development of new services and products. It is clear that in a country with a management model that involves decentralisation to municipalities and county councils with far-reaching local and regional self-government and also independent authorities in the state administration, we have some challenges that require clear governance and coordination from the government, something that has been lacking over the past 10 – 15 years. This is an important reason why we have lost position and are lagging behind when it comes to open data. That is why these issues should also be highlighted and evaluated by an independent international player, the OECD, and then we will have a basis for taking action to address these problems. In addition, the state authorities that have been given the assignment also have the opportunity to work with the municipal sector. We also have a dialogue with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. It is important that we do not get caught up in a debate on municipal self-government. The use of open data and the standardisation of digital services is not a threat to local government. On the contrary, it creates conditions for efficiency and innovation in the public sector, which is essential if the local government sector is to meet its important commitments to citizens in the future. Here we will also need to work much more with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils to find common solutions. Mr President, I would like to Again, these are not reforms that are free of charge. In the end, therefore, it is a matter of political priorities in the budget, and we are, of course, working to highlight the benefits that exist in terms of spending on open data. But priorities and balances must be made with other reforms. In future, we will also be able to influence the behaviour of public institutions to a greater extent, so I am not ruling out such practices.
i-103a66b009041970-130	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to the Government for mentioning the floor. It reminded me of a very important point precisely in terms of transparency. Further work on open data can be one of the most important measures we do in modern times to overcome what might be perceived as or even corruption. There are examples of municipalities that have chosen to publish in principle their entire accounting system. Anyone can see in principle every verificate, every invoice and every payment of municipal tax revenue. More transparency than that, I think it's hard to create. If this has been done, we can see clear improvements in efficiency and a more responsible use of tax resources, precisely because it becomes so much more transparent. I do not believe that there should be mistrust in general of people who carry out municipal activities and believe that they are trying to fertilize with the money. But it will be an extra reminder when they really know that they have their eyes on them. What happens with municipal tax funds becomes directly traceable to individuals, to the media, to accountants and to others. I fully agree with the Prime Minister that this is not about municipal self-government in some negative sense, but rather about traceability and taking responsibility to the citizens in a transparent manner in many cases. It is also a question of making available information that has been accumulated because of government activities and that can create values elsewhere. I look forward to the work initiated within the OECD. I also look forward to future debates with the Government and thank you for this time.
i-LBk1TriKjLeaQxRVgyu7Xe	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Ottoson, for this important debate! In these times, when there are forces even in the Swedish parliament that want to question all parts of the open society – transparency in administration and the independence of the judiciary – and who even see some European countries moving away from the principles of the rule of law and transparency as role models, it is important that the democratic and established parties work to strengthen transparency and openness in Swedish administration. That is why there is also a democratic aspect of open data that we must constantly emphasise, and that is exactly what Erik Ot toson highlighted in this debate: opening up data leads to more transparency for citizens in public administration and greater opportunity to hold politicians accountable for decisions taken at municipal, regional and national level. This is another argument that we need to invest in open data. We have normally focused a lot on the innovation aspects of open data, the conditions for the re-use of open data to develop new services that can be developed by industry and the conditions for making public administration more efficient in the Community with industry. However, we must not forget the democratic aspect, which is about the participation of citizens and which is a prerequisite for our social model and the way in which we live in Sweden. I would like to thank you for the debate. I can promise Erik Ottoson that we will do everything we can to prioritise this part of the management policy, and the OECD evaluation will guide the government's work on open data. Thank you very much for the discussion.
i-103a66b009041970-141	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has asked me which parameters form the basis for both the authorities that I and the government want to move, and how the government decides to which location the relocation takes place. Jonas Gjörtler has also asked me how I and the government intend to move forward on this issue. In working with a Sweden that holds together, the government's intention is to continue to work to increase the spread of government agencies across the country. The starting point is that new authorities should primarily be located outside Stockholm County. It is important that there are jobs for officials and academics outside the major cities as well. The government also continues its efforts to relocate existing authorities. In April, the Government decided that Statistics Sweden will locate further operations in Örebro. It is a step further in the process of increasing the state presence across the country. The choice of authority and place is often linked. The guidance in the work on relocations is that the authority should have good opportunities to operate in the new location. This can be done, for example, through clusters of authorities with similar activities.
i-BnbfjrZ8wryoACbyvPkyyS	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like to start by saying something in general about rural policy and rural development. What is most important for rural areas to function and be able to grow with their own strength is that the right conditions are given for jobs and growth. This means that there is a great deal to do with reduced costs and lower taxes, which means that less red tape is more important than increased taxes and targeted subsidies. Here I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that the government is pursuing a policy that creates problems in this respect with already implemented tax increases of 40 billion on jobs and growth. These costs will be extra heavy yoke to bear for the countryside. We also see that the government is moving forward with more harmful tax proposals, such as the airline tax. It is also intended to proceed with the mileage tax. This is important to say as an introduction. The question of redeployment of authorities is too important to be reduced to a tool for the government to compensate parts of the country for the negative effects of the policies pursued, because then we risk ending up in a situation that we have been in the past. For example, regimental closures were compensated by a transfer of authority. In fact, I see a great risk of such a policy coming back, in other words that a move of authority which is not being implemented properly and for the right reasons risks becoming a bad example and that there is a cooling back on this issue. Having said that, I would like to emphasise that I think the issue of the relocation of authorities is important. There are many good arguments for locating authorities elsewhere than in the metropolitan area. Firstly, the state should not actively contribute to the centralisation of skilled jobs. After all, the state always has a number of qualified jobs in the metropolitan area, and that will always be the case. Then it is a point to spread the workplaces that do not have to be located in the Stockholm area and make sure that they are located elsewhere. Secondly, the growth benefits from Sweden's having more growth engines. There can be wider and more attractive labour markets in more parts of the country. Authorities can be an important part of broadening the labour market regions and acquiring a different type of skills. Thirdly, digitalisation is a development that makes it less important where the authority is located geographically. Fourthly, you can reduce costs, especially if you move a location from central Stockholm elsewhere. I would like to point out, as I do in the interpellation, that this should not automatically be interpreted as a question of sparsely populated areas, i.e. to put Stockholm against the really sparse sparsely populated areas. It is not the case that the authorities should automatically move far out into sparsely populated areas. But there is a need to move the authorities out in general. 139 authorities are located in Stockholm and another 10 in Uppsala and some in the immediate area, which can be compared with the other two metropolitan regions, where there are 4 authorities in Gothenburg and 3 in Malmö and Lund. Of course, localisation in one of the other metropolitan areas benefits not only these municipalities, but also the municipalities within commuting distance. It is an important component of this. It is therefore not only the place where the authority is placed that is important, but it must be seen from a regional perspective. I have asked some questions about the parameters underlying the relocation of authorities, and that is because I think this is important. So we need to relocalise our mouths in a well-thought-out way so that it is a success and a good example and not a risk of fighting back. I would like the Government to develop a little further how the Government thinks about this.
i-3Rocu8sDPSMSUWrbxNucmv	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the answer to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler's important interpellation! Today, barely a quarter of a million people work in government agencies, and about 60 per cent of the authorities have their headquarters in Stockholm. The state authorities can, of course, offer qualified and interesting services, especially to those with a long and solid education. Such jobs may be particularly important and attractive for counties and municipalities with a limited labour market. It simply creates the conditions for people to stay in or return to a county or a municipality after they have completed their higher education. It is therefore very important that we discuss precisely the relocation of authorities. At the same time, criticism has been levelled at the relocation of authorities. There is talk of a loss of production and difficulty in providing staff. It is also discussed that costs are sometimes higher than expected. The Swedish National Audit Office did a review a few years ago that pointed to some of the challenges of relocation of government agencies. It is usually expected that it will take between three and five years for the authorities to recover from relocation. Instead of delocalising an authority from the outset or completely, the alternative is to redeploy an authority that exists in several different locations, for example by relocating the head office or the Director-General. This can happen quite naturally, for example when a new Director-General is to be recruited to an agency and the Director-General wants to build his own staff with his own communication departments, legal departments and strategic management. According to Statskontoret's evaluation, it is important to think in terms of cluster formations when it comes to localisation of government agencies. We have successful examples of this linked to forestry and agriculture issues in Jönköping and also traffic issues in Borlänge. In my own county of Värmland there is a strong competence and government presence linked to crisis preparedness and social security, including through MSB, the Recruitment Authority and, in part, the Swedish Consumer Agency, the Swedish Defence University's leadership centre and the Centre for Climate and Security at Karlstad University. Co-location has been good for the utility and human resources of these authorities. This cluster has been affected by the fact that a number of jobs within MSB have been moved from Karlstad to mainly Stockholm. At the same time, we know that the area of total defence and crisis preparedness is becoming increasingly important. I would like to ask the Government two questions. Firstly, how does he intend to move forward with the work to strengthen clustering within the authorities? Secondly, what is the Government's view on the idea of relocating authorities that have existing activities in different locations, moving directors-general within their locations rather than completely removing new authorities?
i-103a66b009041970-167	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by expressing my appreciation for the commitment shown by Jonas Gjörtler and Pål Jonson on this issue, which is different from the attitude shown by the moderate party leadership on the issue of relocation of state jobs. We've been talking disparagingly about replacement jobs and actually about the rest of the country. We just heard an interpellation debate where a moderate Member of Parliament spoke very disparagingly about parts of our country and attacked the equalisation system. I do not think that Sweden benefits from the fact that the party that is currently the second largest in the Riksdag has such a clear Stockholm fixation as you sometimes hear, most recently in the debate that was earlier in this House. I very much appreciate that there are moderate voices who want to see a clearer responsibility on the part of the state for the location of government jobs than the responsibility that we saw during the eight years when the government was led by Fredrik Reinfeldt. Then we had a very clear concentration of the state jobs to Stockholm. This was the trend we had in Swedish administration at the change of power, and it was also the background to our government's decision to break this trend, choose another path and steer the authorities to increase the spread of government jobs and strengthen the state presence outside Stockholm. Sometimes when you listen to the debate you are struck by that some actors believe that Sweden starts in Täby and ends in Huddinge, at best, or maybe Nacka. But Sweden is a little bigger than that. In fact, the expertise that our government agencies need in the form of trained staff and knowledge is also outside the Stockholm area, which the interpellants also emphasize. What we are doing right now, Mr President, is that we are working on relocating authorities from Stockholm to other parts of the country. At the same time, we have sent the signal to the authorities that when operations are to be expanded this will take place in locations other than Stockholm. This was last done in Lycksele, with 100 jobs via Arbetsförmedlingen – a big change for a municipality like Lycksele. We are also working to better coordinate and control the decision-making of the authorities so that we do not have effects where several authorities at the same time abandon a region and weaken the state presence in terms of the whole. This calls for coordination mechanisms. As regards relocation work, we have already decided to relocate the E-Health Agency from Stockholm to Kalmar, Fastighetsmäklarinspektionen from Stockholm to Karlstad and Statistics Sweden's headquarters from Stockholm to Örebro. Here we think in clusters – this is exactly what we are working on. In Kalmar there is the E-Health Institute, university education focused on e-health and parts of the private business sector working on e-health issues, and then there were opportunities to build e-health clusters, where the E-Health Agency could play an important role. The Swedish Consumer Agency is located in Karlstad. In addition to emergency preparedness issues, future legal training can build a consumer law cluster. In such a building, Fastighetsmäklarinspektionen could fit in. Örebro already has a large part of Statistics Sweden's operations, and we have courses at the University that focus on nearby areas. There are also opportunities for clustering. Exactly so we will continue to work. Cohesion is crucial for Sweden's development, Mr President. The trend that we had behind us at the change of power was not good, not for the state and not for the cohesion of our country. A better distribution of government jobs will create the conditions for maintaining trust and legitimacy for the Swedish state and will also contribute to a more consistent development in our country.
i-QSPfTtNKGvjKmWWetjxjx2	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the development of the answer and reasoning! The moderate view of this line is clearer than what I think the Council of State is showing. For example, we support the Rural Committee's report, which includes this issue. But, of course, within our party, as in most others, there is a draw between different parts of the country. It is perhaps not surprising that representatives of municipalities or parts of the country where authorities are located today would like them to remain. I think that this is quite natural, and I think we have to expect that discussion to arise. My view of this is clear, as I explained earlier. I think it is important that the state takes responsibility here and does not contribute to the centralisation of qualified jobs. As I also stressed, it is incredibly important when a relocation is carried out that it is done properly. Ensuring competence within the authority is important for it to be an attractive workplace, but the authority must also function for the activities it is set to regulate and influence in other ways. This is absolutely crucial. If citizens lose confidence and feel that authorities are being moved to compensate for something else and that quality is lacking, we risk getting a recoil that goes in the other direction. I think that sometimes, at least in the general debate, the perspective is to move to compensate for another negative effect. It is a rather boring perspective, because it assumes that a transfer of authority is done as something reactive, as a plaster on the wounds for some problem that exists in the region where the business moves, and that it does not focus on what would be good from the authority's perspective and for the citizens. I'd rather turn the perspective around! Think of the new start and new opportunities that can be opened up when an authority is moved to a region that is perhaps much better suited to the authority than the metropolitan area. Instead of saying that a region is in trouble and that it therefore receives a compensation authority, I think it should be said: in this region you are good at this and this, and then it is reasonable for authorities in these areas of activity to be located here. I sense a tone of this from the Government, and I see that as positive. To give an example, we have a lot of food production in Skåne. The two chambers of commerce, the South Swedish Chamber of Industry and Commerce and the West Swedish Chamber of Industry and Commerce, have looked at the relocation of authorities and have an interesting proposal: to put the Swedish Food Administration in Skåne, for example. This is interesting precisely because it is a question of contributing with qualified tasks. Certainly there is a shortage of such in Skåne, but above all it would mean new and exciting opportunities to develop the agency. That is what I think should be at least an important part of this. In the same way, the two chambers of commerce have reasoned on a proposal which they also have: to move the Chemicals Inspectorate to West Sweden, given that the country's largest chemistry cluster is located in that particular region. I hope that this is the way the government thinks in the future, in other words that this is the way it addresses the issue of the relocation of authorities. If you are going to do serious work and ensure that this is a successful example, that is how you should do it. The last thing I think is incredibly important. If you do it carelessly, randomly or badly in some other way, the authorities risk becoming just bad examples that can be used as rhetorical devices to stop other moves or relocations later on. The government therefore has a great responsibility to ensure that relocations are good, out of concern for the authorities and those affected by the agencies' activities, but also more generally so as not to risk creating a recoil that would lead to greater centralisation in the next step.
i-103a66b009041970-194	Mr President, I would like to One of the most important forces in our country is cohesion; there are small gaps. Confidence in society, trust between citizens and public institutions, but also interpersonal trust, is also important. Mr President, I would like to I remember when I came to Sweden when I was 11 years old and went a lot between Sandviken and Stockholm the first period. I really remember that it occurred to me that there were so small differences between Sandviken and Stockholm in terms of the service offering and the feeling that the cityscape gave me. My relatives even went from Stockholm to Sandviken to visit the water park there. There was a municipal and state service offering throughout the country that created equivalence in terms of people's feelings and development. The previous government did some good things. However, in this area – the cohesion of our country and the equivalence of our country – developments were going in the wrong direction. Research also shows that in terms of state location, for example, state centralisation and the wave of urbanisation went faster than other sectors. The state was thus driving during this period in terms of urbanisation and the decline in state presence around our country. But in Stefan Lövven's government this does not apply. In Stefan Lövven's government, the state must take responsibility for keeping Sweden together. We know our limitations. The government sector accounts for only 5% of the total labour market. But the state can still take responsibility. Only by relocating authorities are signals sent. When Arbetsförmedlingen announces, with the government's new policy, that the 100 new jobs will be placed in Lycksele, the signal will also be sent to the Swedish business community that we believe in Lycksele, that we believe in the interior and that we believe in cohesion in our country. We believe that it is not only Stockholm that is the locomotive in this country but that it is also Lycksele, Kalmar and the other parts of our country. It is therefore important that we keep this up now and also do what Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler and Pål Jonson talk about and carry out well thought-out relocations. This is not a patch on the wounds. It is about that there is a competence also outside the Stockholm area. We have good educational conditions throughout our country. Let the Swedish state also take advantage of this. We have lower premises outside Stockholm. Let the Swedish state streamline through relocations. It is therefore important that the relocations that are now being carried out – and this government will carry out more relocations – are made to locations where there are conditions for clustering, for collaboration with industry and for collaboration with universities and colleges. I am convinced that if we do this now, and continue with the government's line on this matter, we will be able to note that we have taken some steps during this term of office to strengthen the cohesion and equivalence of our country. It will serve the trust of our society. In a development in which the state abandons parts of our country, where citizens in certain regions feel abandoned by the Swedish state, trust in public institutions is weakened with the effect of deteriorating interpersonal trust. This is therefore not just a small question of compensation for regions or of improving the efficiency of state activities. It concerns a much larger issue, and it is the interpersonal trust in Swedish society. There we will take responsibility and break with the previous government's policy, which was about centralisation, urbanisation and concentration to Stockholm.
i-103a66b009041970-205	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for this. I want to continue where the Government left off, with trust. I fully share the view that this is incredibly important. We see how this tension between town and country and between what one perceives as some kind of center and what one perceives as some kind of periphery is actually increasing throughout the world. It is of course incredibly important. Another aspect of this trust is what I am trying to touch on, namely that trust in the good functioning of the authorities is incredibly important. When the relocation is done, it is therefore important that it is done properly so as not to damage confidence in the presence of authorities located in several parts of the country. That is what is at the heart of my question. I think we are very much in agreement that relocation is important and that government jobs should exist throughout the country. I am pleased that we are very much in agreement on this. I would be happy to agree that it was not done enough during the time of the previous government. We can see that the growth that took place in government jobs mainly took place in Stockholm. I don't think that was very successful. I am therefore pleased that there is a broad consensus on this, including from the Rural Committee. I think we need to act together on this. At least I think we agree on the case. Then it's about execution and how to do it. That is what my interpellation is about. I have asked questions and I have now received better answers in this House than in the written reply. But I asked what parameters form the basis for the authorities that they want to move. How do you choose which authorities to move and where to place them? The Government has addressed this with clustering and looking at it. That sounds positive. I think that is a very important part of this. I would perhaps like to see a more clearly presented systematic approach to how to work with these processes. Failure to do so will also damage confidence in the entire public system and in the functioning of the authorities. We don't want to land there.
i-103a66b009041970-212	Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to thank Jonas Gjörtler and Pål Jonson for a very good discussion. This is an important discussion for the public administration but also for society at large. I would like to emphasise that the government believes in thought-out relocations that are preceded by careful analyses, where analyses are made not least on the basis of the skills needs of the respective authorities and on the basis of the conditions that the places that are intended as new locations of government have in terms of communications, skills provision and the conditions for forming clusters. I am convinced that this type of more thought-out relocation can also help to increase growth in our country and create good conditions for the business community to contribute to development and growth in collaboration with the Swedish state. Thank you for a good discussion.
