i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-3	Good morning, Madam President. Knowledge is power. Knowledge gives power and opportunities to create the life you want to live. Without knowledge, the individual's opportunities are limited and now more than ever when we live in a knowledge society. Without passing grades from comprehensive school, the uphill is steep for young people when it comes to getting by in life. Passed grades from comprehensive school are one of the strongest protection factors available against most misery that can affect a person in life. It concerns long-term unemployment, crime, the risk of going to prison and also the risk of mental illness. Approximately 20 per cent of the students completed comprehensive school without having a passing grade in all subjects. This means that comprehensive school fails with one student in five. It is a great betrayal, and we all need to focus on ensuring that all students at least reach upper secondary school eligibility in order to move on in life. This requires many different efforts. We Moderates and also the Alliance have several suggestions on how to improve the results in school. During the alliance government, the focus of the school debate was on knowledge. The major reforms carried out by the Alliance government focused on improving knowledge outcomes and how to strengthen pupils' chances of developing in school. We were also pleased to see that the results turned upwards in the latest PISA measurement. Of course, teachers and students have done a great deal of work. But it is also about us as politicians having created better conditions for the school. The Moderates have long been pushing the issue of school of praise and an obligation for the principals to offer it. It is with some pleasure that we note that the government is now implementing this. In Sweden, we have relatively few hours of teaching compared to other OECD countries. Although quantity in number of hours does not say everything, it must nevertheless be reasonable to assume that if students get more hours of teaching with a qualified teacher, the conditions and opportunities for achieving the knowledge goals increase. This is why, among other things, the Alliance is pushing the issue of more teaching hours in mathematics. Madam President, I would like The requirement for school is a way to increase teaching time. It is a requirement that, in this design, will hopefully provide support for students who are at risk of not passing upper secondary school qualifications. It is, of course, a good contribution, but we in the Alliance have proposals that would make the introduction of holiday school so much better. All research indicates that early intervention makes the greatest difference. The sooner you pay attention to a student's difficulties and challenges and can put in support, the better it is. The chances are much greater for students to pass the school. In addition, it brings huge benefits for the individual student in terms of self-esteem and self-confidence. Not to lag behind but to be able to keep up with your friends in development means a lot to the individual student. We are therefore very critical of the government limiting the obligation to offer holiday school to grades 8 and 9. We believe that the obligation must also apply to grades 6 and 7. In an evaluation of grades in grade 6 the Swedish National Agency for Education has found that many of the students who receive F in grades in several subjects in grade 6 also have F in grades in grade 9. Of those who do not pass grades in grade 6 in one or more subjects, 72 per cent still have not passed grades in any subject when they finish grade nine. Lovskola is not the only solution. But it's very hard to understand that the government doesn't want to make demands on school holidays from grade 6. It seems even stranger if you read the Swedish National Agency for Education's referrals. It is also of the opinion that the requirement for schooling should apply from year 6. Madam President, I would like The government and, not least, the Minister for Education himself have repeatedly expressed the need for us politicians to show confidence and trust in the profession and not to regulate the school in detail. Unfortunately, the proposal for a holiday school is very detailed. This means that politicians lose confidence in the profession when, on the one hand, we say that we have confidence and, on the other hand, we regulate proposals that come in detail. Among other things, the proposal means that you can only offer holiday school in June. What happens if you decide at a school that it would be better to complete the school for year 8 in August? Why should regulations prevent this possibility? In our follow-up motion, we in the Alliance have also highlighted the issue of possibilities for using modern technology in the form of remote teaching. Recently, a study was presented which opened up for more opportunities to use modern technologies in both remote and distance learning. The proposals in the study are a step in the right direction, although this still severely restricts certain areas. There is reason to come back to this when the proposals appear in this House. Our proposal with regard to the school of praise means that, even now, principals would have the opportunity to use remote teaching for schooling to a greater extent than is possible today. The requirement for a holiday school applies to all principals throughout Sweden. If all principals, and also less independent principals and not least less municipal principals and principals with many rural schools, are to be able to offer the right amount of school of praise and high quality, the principals must be given the opportunity to use the technology available. Madam President, I would like That is why I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 2.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-16	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by asking the Swedish Democrats for their assent to reservation No 1. We are saying no to this as the only party. This is certainly not unusual for the Swedish Democrats. As with so many other issues, we will be right in this too. The other parties will turn their coats after the wind when they realise that this was not a good decision either. Let me give you a few examples. This applies, for example, to migration policy, to banning begging, career services for real in school, border control, and so on. Madam President, I would like In almost 450 days, the voters will have their say. Then it's time to see if the dead fish that are constantly floating downstream are the ones who will get the voices or we who swim against the current. What are we discussing today? Well, we're discussing whether students should be offered extra help in grades 8 and 9 if they don't reach grade E, and it should be 50 hours or more. Madam President, I would like This means that what the regular school fails to achieve in 194 days per year for eight nine years should be completed in eight ten days of summer vacation or some other holiday. There is already a possibility of a school of worship today. Why, then, do not all schools have it if it is the big solution to the school's problems? Because it's a waste of resources. Time and money should be spent during the regular study period, and above all, it should be invested much earlier than in grades 6 to 9. Neither students nor teachers want to take this action. If they wanted it, it would have already been taken. I can remember a few students with whom I or my fellow teachers have taken this action. Almost everyone I met later in life had dropped out of their high school education because knowledge had to be deeper than with some kind of quick fix in eight ten days. It won't do any good. It may get the student over a certain limit if the teacher is kind or the principal requires it, but the knowledge will not be deep. Madam President, I would like It also states that this should be outsourced. It can be really exciting. What regular teachers have not succeeded in in eight nine years should at best a trained teacher or, at worst, a summer-working high school student who has barely finished school himself will succeed in a few days. Instead, if the bet had been made earlier, these children would not need this artificial breathing. The teaching profession is already an established group. Are they going to do their free time that they need for recovery? Everyone who works or has worked as a teacher knows that these periods are laid out for recovery. During all the years of municipal governance, teachers have only had a worse time. We have a proposal to nationalise the school, and we will come back to exactly what we mean many times. According to me and my party, the government's proposal will lead to even more teachers leaving school. Madam President, I would like Plaster solutions are not the solution to school problems. I feel that the 450 days until we can finally change government cannot go fast enough, because this is not good.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-29	Madam President, I would like I share Stefan Jakobsson's view that we need early action. We need many different efforts to achieve better results in school. Today, 20 percent of the students leaving the ninth grade fail to pass. It is also 20 percent of the principals who do not offer school of worship at all. This may be because you are a small principal who has not been able to apply for the state subsidies that exist. It is strange and sad that the Swedish Democrats cannot support the Alliance's reservation. With our proposal, we would get in early school than the government's proposal. We want to introduce requirements for holiday school from grade 6 so that we get earlier efforts than with the government's proposal.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-33	Madam President, I would like We agree that early action is needed. But early intervention should not come in grade 6. They will be in preschool and in grades 1 and 2. Thanks to the kiwi method, more than 99 percent of the students attending grade 1 in New Zealand can read. That's the solution, not a school of love with students who are already tired of school. If school was the perfect solution, all schools would already have introduced it, which they do not have. Perhaps one reason is that you are a small school. If we force small school units to introduce this, they can crash economically.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-36	Madam President, I would like Does Stefan Jakobsson mean that for those students who go to a small school and are at risk of not obtaining upper secondary school qualifications, the school should not have to put in extra contributions during the summer vacation so that they can be approved and get upper secondary school qualifications? It is sad that these students should be given less opportunities. In our reservation we have a solution to that, and it is that you could use remote education to a greater extent so that even a smaller school can get good schooling. It can't be reasonable, Stefan Jakobsson, that students who attend a smaller school should have worse chances than students in a larger school.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-39	Madam President, I would like I dare say that every student who attends a smaller school has a better schooling than the students who attend a larger school. At a small school, the headmaster and teacher know the names of all students, and they have a personal relationship with the students in a completely different way than at a large school. We are the party that is the hardest driver of the issue that small schools should not be closed down. We are the only ones in the municipalities who are voting against the closures made by both moderate and social-democratic-led municipalities. We guarantee that the small schools will remain. If principals and teachers are given the opportunity to teach well and if local politicians do not go in and play politically all the time, I am convinced that we would do much better. I do not think that the school is the only solution, and that is why we reject both proposals.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-43	Madam President, I would like Today, therefore, we are debating proposal 156 and report UbU22 An obligation to offer a school of praise. I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. I will honestly say that it has not always felt obvious that we need to have summer or holiday school for children to pass their schooling. For me, it is natural that during regular teaching you should be able to assimilate so much knowledge and support that you should not have to go to school during holidays. I know what it feels like to be one of those who sometimes get to sit in another classroom and get some extra support. I understand those who see it as punishment and that no one understands. It can sometimes be that you are at a certain stage of life, that feelings and thoughts prevent you or that you do not have room and peace to study at home. To then get an extra charge and stigmatized and pointed out as the one who does not pass school can feel hard. That is why it is so important that this obligation becomes an opportunity for everyone, that it is offered as well as possible – a way that feels inclusive – and that the school speaks of it in a positive sense and highlights this opportunity as just an opportunity to have some extra time to cope with the subjects needed to get into upper secondary education. Madam President, I would like We know that a secondary school degree is a prerequisite for establishment in the Swedish labour market. Young people who do not have a high school degree find it very difficult to enter the labour market. The fact that all students in Sweden have the opportunity to graduate from upper secondary school is a high priority for the government and, in the long term, also an important asset for society. Our primary task is to ensure that all children are given the right conditions to complete their schooling. For this to be possible, a policy that gives teachers and students better opportunities to succeed is needed. An obligation to offer holiday school is one way to promote that ambition. Madam President, I would like Many of us have certainly visited the extremely appreciated summer schools that are around the country, summer schools where it is usually upper secondary school students who help with the support in teaching to those students who voluntarily seek this extra help. I have met students who are happy and excited and who confirm that they have really been helped on various subjects. Summer schools and homework help, organised or voluntary, are very good. In a summary of the number of applications for state grants for teaching, the Swedish National Agency for Education has shown that nearly 20 per cent of the country's municipalities do not apply for such grants. We cannot, on the basis of that information, know how many students have been in need of teaching during school holidays but have not been offered to participate in such activities. It can be concluded, however, that not all students in Sweden are given this opportunity. The current system, where it is up to the principals to decide whether or not to organise teaching during school holidays, means that not all pupils are guaranteed such an opportunity. Furthermore, the present system means that it is up to the principal to decide to what extent the student should be given the opportunity to teach and in what subjects. This may mean that not all pupils are given opportunities for supplementary education, which may be crucial for them to gain access to a national programme in upper secondary school. This is precisely what helps to reduce the equivalence of Swedish schools in this area. Lack of rules for teaching during school holidays leads to confusion as to what rights you have as a student. That is why a regulation of content and minimum scope is welcome. This is expected to contribute to the creation of a more equal school. Lovskolan should be offered to students who have completed grade 8 and who in the next year risk not reaching the knowledge requirements for grade E in one or more subjects and thus risk not becoming eligible for a national programme, as I mentioned. It shall be offered to students who have completed grade 9 without obtaining such a qualification. Lovskolan will be organized in June of the same year as the student has completed grades 8 and 9 respectively and will be at least 50 hours in both cases, just as we heard here before. The proposal does not intend to contribute to unnecessary governance of the activities, but those principals who prefer to organise the school during the school holidays or Easter will be able to count off the time students have taken part in such a school. It is very important to emphasise this. The proposed regulation also provides a great deal of freedom for principals to organise schooling when it suits best, and also with regard to local conditions. When debating such a report, it is very important to also highlight reservations, possible questions and concerns that may exist. We have heard the Swedish Democrats, who object to the proposal in the bill on the grounds that they believe that the introduction of an obligation will mean draining ordinary teaching on resources and support measures. But it is very important to stress that both can be done. The fact that nearly 80 per cent of the country's municipalities have applied for state grants to hold a school of worship suggests that this is an effort that they are happy to make. In this situation, it is extremely important to ensure equivalence in Swedish schools throughout the country. It is positive if it helps more students to meet the eligibility requirements of a secondary school programme. The alliance parties state in their reservation that the resources should be deployed and also include grade 6 and grade 7. I don't think the idea is wrong. On the other hand, I do not see any obstacles to offering this opportunity today. The draft law refers to an obligation to do so in grade 8 and grade 9 if you see that students are at risk of not meeting the eligibility requirements. What is also highlighted in the reservation is that it feels that the proposal is narrowly aligned until the month of June. It is also wrong, as is clear from the bill. There is also the opportunity to offer this in other times of the year and then count off that time, as I mentioned earlier. Madam President, I would like There are challenges in recruiting qualified teachers. This applies to most of the school system. It is therefore important to emphasise the positive aspects of this effort, including the special challenge of special types of teaching – the principals. The outsourcing of teaching by principals also provides opportunities to deal with a local shortage of teacher resources. With the fact that the school is also to be seen as part of comprehensive school, it allows the possibility to use remote teaching also on a subcontract basis. Madam President, I would like I look with confidence at the school of the future and Swedish education. The Red-Green Government provides additional resources and support to the school. The focus has been and is on early interventions, an attractive teaching profession and an equal school. I hope that everyone who works in the school world sees and feels that they are important. Because they are. I usually say that without a good foundation, without education, people and countries stop developing. Our teachers and all other fantastic staff contribute to this foundation. Work to improve the conditions for learning, formation, children and staff is a priority. With this, I look forward to continuing to develop Swedish school for our children and their future.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-66	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, I am very pleased that the government is now meeting the Moderates and introducing compulsory school of praise. I think you and I, Roza Güclü Hedin, fully agree that early intervention is important. Even though you mentioned that it might be a good idea with this even in grade 6 I'm a little bit wondering why you're going against it. The National Board of Education may well be a rather heavy consultation body on this particular issue, and they state very clearly in their referral that, in order to ensure equivalence and given that today it is 20 percent of the principals who do not apply for money for school of praise, it should be an obligation to offer school of praise from year 6. I therefore find it difficult to understand why the government does not want to take up the very important point of view of the Swedish National Agency for Education on this issue. Although it is of course the case that you can offer holiday school on Easter holidays, sports holidays and autumn holidays if you so wish and count it off, it is still a limitation in terms of when in the summer you can offer holiday school. Why on earth should it not be possible to offer holiday school in July and August, if the principal, together with the teacher profession and principals, agrees that this seems most sensible from their point of view? I find it extremely difficult to understand why people lock up the possibility of having a school during the summer holidays until June. I don't know if you have a good answer to that. But to me, it's completely incomprehensible.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-68	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Stockhaus for this. I also think it is very positive that we have the same ambition on this very important issue. As I said in my speech, the bill states that it is perfectly possible to offer holiday school in the lower grades. It is then simply up to the principals if necessary. This proposal and this report are very well balanced. Various responses have, of course, been received from the consultation bodies. However, it has been concluded that it is very important to focus on grade 8 and grade 9 on the basis of the risk that a student does not meet the eligibility requirements and thus does not qualify for a national upper secondary school programme. When it comes to whether to have a holiday school in July and August, you have to somewhere, if not protect the students – that's the wrong word – still make sure that the students in connection with regular school hours and semesters get the support they need so that they simply get a summer vacation. It is very important to focus and concentrate on this time in June, so that these students get summer holidays in July and August like other students.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-72	Madam President, I would like The grade statistics that the Swedish National Agency for Education has produced regarding grades from grade 6 and whether you can then manage if you have an F in grade 9 and how it affects the final grade, actually speaks its clear language. I find it very difficult to have any understanding of the fact that you do not want the requirement that there should be a holiday school to apply from year 6. Given the possibility of completing upper secondary school, it must surely be that the earlier you get into phase and the earlier you can get your grades up to at least one E, the better it is. Of course, it is hoped that all principals will take responsibility and offer a school of praise if needed earlier, perhaps even earlier than grade 6. Nevertheless, we know that 20% of the principals have not actually applied for grants for the organisation of holiday schools. It may be that they don't have any students who need it. But I find it very hard to believe that this is the justification. It may be that it is complicated to search and that there are different forms of reporting and other things that make them opt out of this. We believe that this requirement should be made and that you should not actually have to go in and apply. There is money in the general contribution to the municipalities, and this is a mission that you actually have to ensure from year 6 that all students are on the train. I find it so difficult to understand why the government opts out of this, especially considering the Swedish National Agency for Education's statistics and what the Swedish National Agency for Education says in its referral was. When it comes to the argument that the students should be given a summer vacation, it is obvious that they should get it. But the school will cover two weeks no matter when it is. If you judge the student to be most useful if you place it in August, why on earth should we regulate it so that the school does not have the opportunity to offer the school in August? In fact, it is still completely incomprehensible to me, despite what you, Roza Güclü Hedin, said earlier.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-78	Madam President, I would like I therefore share Maria Stockhaus' view that it is very important to invest early, and that is also why this government has made great efforts in early action. This means that we have invested in more staff in schools, smaller classes and smaller children's groups in preschool, which has resulted in 2 800 children's groups becoming smaller. We invest in more special teachers, more special educators, and we invest in Reading Lift and competence development. I can list a lot of efforts that the government is making to invest in children and students early so that they can complete their schooling. It is very important to highlight this in the debate. I think you get a little caught up in when and how. Schools and principals have the opportunity to offer early schooling if they so wish and see that there is a need. However, the obligation is from grades 8 and 9. It is also very important to emphasise that the moderate-led government invested 20 times more in tax cuts than in school. It is important, because an equal school is provided through shared resources, and therefore we will continue to invest in more early efforts, a better school of praise and the children of the future.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-82	Madam President, I would like I'm not going to get bored because I know there are others waiting. However, I have an interesting question here. First of all, perhaps I should tell you that, although we are totally opposed to the proposal, we and the government are in complete agreement that summer holidays must be granted to the students. I know that most of all now that it is imminent. I think Roza Güclü Hedin is a rather wise woman. We have had many talks, and I think that overall we agree that new proposals should be based on research, relevance and a good analysis of the issues before we release these new proposals. That is why my only question, Madam President, is whether there is any analysis of the progress of those students who went to summer school, not only if they entered high school but then how it went for them in high school – that is, the same issue that I raised in the speaker's chair.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-86	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Stefan Jakobsson, for the question! Of course, it is important to look at research on new proposals, I fully agree, but this is not a new proposal but a tightening up of what is already in place. That it will be an obligation to offer holiday school is because we want to see an equivalence within Swedish school. Eighty per cent of the country's municipalities are already using this possibility, and it is therefore very important that we guarantee from here that the remaining 20 per cent of the municipalities will also receive it. We can therefore agree on this: it is not a new proposal; it is an effort to help and support those students who need some extra support in their teaching in order to be able to meet the eligibility requirements and in the long term also enter a high school. When it comes to an analysis of whether or not things have gone well for these students, I cannot answer that. However, I have met students who have attended summer school at home in my own municipality, and they have clearly said that it has helped them and supported them in the parts that they did not manage. So I could say it has gone well for the people I have met.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-91	Madam President, I would like It's a little dangerous, that. We are a bit on the Left Party's line of assessing everything you do based on an individual's experience. I agree with Roza Güclü Hedin; I have the same experience of meeting students, but unfortunately my assessment is that things have not gone very well for these students. When we carry out such major reforms or tightening up already existing proposals, as Mr Hedin so admirably calls it, an analysis would be very good. I know that there are no such statistics, so it is really a rhetorical question. So there's nowhere in this big bill any statistics to read to be able to say okay, this is a good suggestion. It is so good that we want to implement it and want to make it mandatory precisely because it is going so very well for these students in high school. That analysis has not been carried out, Madam President, and that is what is often wrong with Swedish politics: we are only looking at one step and not two to see how it went then. Of course, it is not the sole responsibility of Roza Güclü Hedin to ensure that this is fixed, but it would be nice for the future if we get analyses based on several steps so that we know how it actually goes for the students who are going through the reforms we are carrying out in the Swedish school. As a teacher, you have stood and watched for many years how reforms are carried out, and if at a later stage there are not the results that you would have liked, you run back to where we once were and do things over. The question therefore remains, although I know that this is a rhetorical question that hardly needs to be answered.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-98	Madam President, I would like Stefan Jakobsson also invites some answers. First of all, it may be that individual opinions and individuals cannot speak for an entire group, but you in your party are actually very good at ascribing the qualities of groups, which is why I almost think we should stay there. Secondly, if we are going to go into the field of research, it is very interesting that you are raising the fact that it is so very important when it comes to this type of reform. But when it comes to gender education and gender equality, for example, you dismiss all research and all researchers and only think based on your own opinion. One should be a little careful to refer to research, at least from your party, I think. Then, in fact, I think it is very important to say from here that all the efforts that enable us to equip our children and students to complete their schooling are good efforts. When you bet or not, we can discuss that. The important thing is to agree that early intervention is good. Our duty is to ensure that children pass their schooling and reach out to a high school programme so that they are equipped for further education, the labour market or whatever it may be. We still have to agree on this.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-103	Madam President, I would like This morning we will discuss the prevention of violent extremism. Of course, we support all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only calling for reservations 1 and 7 here and now. Madam President, I would like The Swedish community building, the dream of the multicultural kingdom of happiness, the suburbs as intercultural melting pots and Sweden as a humanitarian power – of this you agreed, both left and right. It would be a social liberal Shangri-la where everyone went hand in hand and sang kumbaya. The Swedish democrats knew and warned at the time that this was a lie. This is proven daily by shootings, small and large crimes, reports of honour violence and social exclusion. Take, for example, the Report on Exposed Areas – Social Risks, Collective Capability and Undesired Events that the National Operations Department of the Police produced in 2015. The report shows that there are 53 residential areas in Sweden that are to varying degrees exposed to both serious crime and socio-economic factors. Of these 53 areas, 15 are particularly vulnerable. A particularly vulnerable area is characterised by difficulties for the police in fulfilling their mission, parallel social structures and violent religious extremism. In other words, the intercultural crucibles became their own small islands where gangster kings rule by violence and old - fashioned religious delusions. Simply put: Multiculturalism became an expensive and embarrassing fiasco. As a minimum measure, the committee should be able to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation that this report should be followed up. Speaking of fiasco: on 3 February last year, this House voted on 2015/ 16:KU4 Measures to make society more resistant to violent extremism. The Swedish Democrats then had reservations in which we stated, among other things, that according to a report from 2014, it was estimated that the level of terror for Sweden has increased since 2010. The report commissioned by the Ministry of Justice further stated that there are threats from all violent extremist environments in Sweden. However, the assessment was that the biggest threat was violent Islamist environments and that the threat of attacks was greatest from individuals who participated in training or fighting in conflict zones and then returned to Sweden. We already stated at the time that the government's actions are neither credible, effective nor sufficient to protect our society. Instead, Parliament should commission the government to go back to the drawing board and come back with a strategy that takes the problems and threats very seriously. In this context, it is worth recalling that we also wanted the government to appoint a coordinator against violent extremism that takes its work seriously. Of course, all parties in this House, except the Swedish Democrats, voted against this. There was no objection to the risk analyses carried out by the government and it was considered that the measures reported were well justified. Such measures included so-called support phones and an increased gender perspective in the work against violent extremism. Terrorist Magnus Norell summed up the proposals by saying that they were very widely held and on the verge of meaningless. Madam President, I would like On 7 April this year, the terrorist Rakhmat Akilov carried out the worst act of terrorism in the history of modern Sweden. Five people were killed, and more were injured. How many more innocent people will have to die in Allah's name before the rest of you start taking this issue seriously? Once again, we need to reserve our reservations and call on the government to present a concrete action plan for the prevention of radicalisation and terrorism as soon as possible. It has now been almost two years since the Government presented a comprehensive national strategy against terrorism, which will be the starting point for Sweden's long-term work in this area. Now this strategy needs to be put into practice by identifying different types of action and developing an action plan for how the work is to be carried out. Such an action plan should also clearly identify the authority responsible for what. Madam President, I would like At the same time as the government's national coordinator against violent extremism denied his important mission, Akilov planned his terrorist act here in Stockholm. If this issue had been taken seriously, as SD demanded then and as SD demands now, lives could have been saved.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-116	Madam President, I would like We are therefore discussing the work of preventing violent extremism. Sometimes it sounds like this is a new phenomenon in this country, but it is not. We have a long history of violent ideologies. They've been around a long time. There are many, or at least several, different violent movements in our country. In recent years, however, there has been a great deal of focus on violent Islamism. This applies, of course, especially after the violence at Drottninggatan on 7 April. Of course, this act of terrorism has left a mark on how things are being discussed, but I think it is a good thing that we remember that there are more dangerous groups in our country. When this terrible act of terror took place, it also brought with it in a strange way very good. It was a heat that spread. They offered each other food and overnight. The concern was very clear at the time. Afterwards, however, something else has come back, and there has been more hatred and threats against those of us who originate in other countries. This has grown even more. A few weeks ago, a manifestation was held for unaccompanied refugee children out here on Mint Square, just outside the Riksdag. They were then attacked by the Nordic Resistance, and a journalist was beaten. The same group attacked a manifestation at the National Square in March. In February last year, right-wing extremists and Nazis roamed the streets of Stockholm and chased children. The purpose was to spread fear and abuse. On March 8, 2014, several people in Malmö were beaten by a bunch of Nazis. We've seen a lot of arsons in refugee homes. Over the years, there have also been a number of solitary perpetrators of violence. It is about the so-called laser man, John Ausonius, who in the early 1990s spread horror in Stockholm and Uppsala and about Peter Mangs, who waged his race war in Malmö. He was taken prisoner in 2010 and had been at it for seven years. Anton Lundin Pettersson assaulted and killed several people in the school in Trollhättan in October 2015. Violence and threats of violence against journalists, politicians and representatives of the rule of law are growing. It is a serious threat to the democratic system. It keeps more and more people quiet. It also makes more people afraid and anxious. When demonstrations are attacked, as happened in Kärrtorp in December 2013 when Nazis attacked with knives against protesters who demonstrated against racism, it does of course that more people do not dare to say what they think when racism flourishes. And that makes it more and more open. The fear that is spreading is also a very strong breeding ground for extremism. Saving people often go to extreme movements. As I said before, we have long had violent ideologies in Sweden, and there will certainly continue to be groupings that think it is perfectly okay to use violence to achieve their aims. But during our history it has been very different how well you have managed to recruit large groups to their movements. For many periods these groups have been quite small. But sometimes the movements grow and get a bit cockier in periods. A society that holds together, where welfare works, where the chances of getting a job are good, where there is hope of a good future no matter where you live and a society based on trust instead of fear – such a society is not only pleasant, but also reduces the risk of violent extremism growing. The most important preventive measures are basic public services, good schools for everyone, work, housing, equality and equality. Safe people with good hope for the future rarely turn to violent groups. They don't end up in a lot of other crime, either. With a smaller number to recruit from, of course, there will also be fewer in the violent groups. In addition to this, of course, concrete efforts are needed, because, as I said, we have always had people who have gone to extreme movements anyway. It is good that it is proposed that the work of the national coordinator be permanent. Coordination and exchange of information between authorities, but taking into account privacy, is of course needed. Support is needed for those who work with children and young people to be able to act when they meet people who are at risk of falling into violent groups. There is a need for increased research and methodological development. The committee is proposing several announcements, and there are a number of reservations in which I believe that work is already under way on what the majority wants. Sometimes it is wise to let those who work with things continue to work with it and not always give them new and other things. The risk is that it gets very sprawling, and as I said, there is already a lot of work going on. On some other points, however, I also think that more needs to be done. I would, for example, like to see efforts to combat recruitment on social media also involve working together with the companies that provide the platforms. There, however, the majority of committees has not followed the same line. I think that the measures taken so far by the government are moving in the right direction, but an investigation should be set up to review how social media companies can be involved in the work to combat radicalisation and recruitment to violent extremism environments. The committee also proposes an announcement that the government should consider starting a state drop-out operation. I do not think that this is something that the state should be doing. It is not the State that is primarily suited to carry out this type of activity. Rather, measures relating to reintegration and more should be carried out at municipal level with the assistance and support of a national team of experts similar to the one advocated by the National Coordinator or through a national knowledge centre to support the welfare staff, as suggested by the Left Party in our motion. With this, I also support our reservation No 8. There is an announcement on value-based work. I would like to emphasise that I believe that this work must include all people living in our society, no matter where they live or their ethnic or religious affiliation. The existence of anti-democratic values and oppressive values can be a breeding ground for all extremist environments, and there are a lot of poor values in many different places in our country. It's not uncommon, where I live, that you hear people screaming, fucking gay, after someone. These are not very pleasant values. It is not a Stockholm suburb, I can say, but a small village in the countryside. This work needs to be done everywhere.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-129	Madam President, I would like When the van turned up on the sidewalk of London Bridge on Saturday night and started mowing down sheltered pedestrians, it was another in the series of similar attacks that have taken place in Western Europe in the past year: Stockholm, April 7, Westminster Bridge in London, March 22, Berlin, December 2016, Nice, July 14, 2016. In addition, we remember the cruel bombing in Manchester a few weeks ago, and we will never forget the attacks in Brussels in 2016, the terrorist attacks in Paris in November 2015 or the massacre of Charlie Hebdos's editorial team in January of the same year. The attacks carried out with vehicles and knives are frightening in their obvious simplicity. The more large-scale attacks are frightening precisely because of their scale and their horrendous effects. Some people wonder if the attacks have now become so commonplace that we have reached a new normal state. When walking in one of Europe's major cities, you should be prepared for any vehicle to turn up on the footpath at any time to kill as many people as possible. You should be mentally ready for someone to tear out a knife at any time and start chopping around. No, I say, no, no! If we start to believe that we will never be able to feel safe when we fling in brilliant world metropolises like London or Paris, or for that matter in other cities like Nice or Manchester, the terrorists have won an important victory—they have won the battle for the future. If we believe that we cannot defend ourselves against extremism and terrorism, we have lost hope of a way out of this development of violence. Without hope, we also lose the will and the power to act. I can't let that happen. This development is not predestined; it can be broken. To quote Franklin Roosevelt, the only thing we have to fear is fear itself. This is why the debate we now have here in the Swedish Parliament is so important. The Constitutional Committee is responsible for the policy of preventing violent extremism in Parliament. This report deals with a number of motions for resolutions, most of them from the Alliance. The alliance in the KU has negotiated with the government parties and reached an agreement to approve a number of the Alliance's proposals, which means that the KU proposes that four announcements be addressed to the government. I would like to extend warm thanks to the Social Democrats and the Green Party for constructive talks. It is a strength that we can have a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament on measures to prevent violent extremism. Madam President, I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal in the report. At the same time, we are also debating the European Commission's communication on EU action to help Member States prevent violent extremism. I would also like to support this proposal, but will not mention it any more in my speech. The policy against violent extremism includes measures against the three violent, extremist environments that exist in Sweden: the extreme left-wing environment, the far-right white power environment and the Islamic environment. The main terrorist threat in Sweden today comes from actors inspired by militant Islamic movements. Of course, however, left-wing extremism and right-wing extremism must also be countered. The fact that violent right-wing extremism is a concrete threat in Sweden is demonstrated, among other things, by the fact that right-wing extremists bear responsibility for a number of murders committed in our country over the past 25 years. Even left-wing groups have been guilty of various acts of violence and caused great costs to society. In order to be able to take relevant preventive measures, one must have an idea of what makes people radicalized. In the section on counterterrorism, the Swedish Security Service writes on its website: There are perceived injustices or violations, which can have a real basis. There is also a violent ideology that points to injustice, explains their cause and what should be done to remedy injustices. Finally, there is also a need for a social context in which ideology is internalised. These three components are combined in unique ways in individuals and have varying meanings. Some people join violence-promoting groups based on search for excitement and community, others are more ideologically interested and some end up in violence-promoting groups because many in their family or social environment are already pro-violent. ..................................................... It is therefore important to realise that the driving forces behind radicalisation and extremism are complex and vary between individuals. Some politicians, often on the left, like to describe radicalisation, such as Islamic radicalisation, in class terms as a somewhat understandable reaction to injustice people face in an unequal society. However, it is a gross and misleading simplification to explain extremism and terrorism by the fact that the persons in question live in scarce economic conditions. Most people living in exclusion are neither extremists nor terrorists, and many extremists and terrorists are not socially vulnerable. DN recently reported about a wealthy Swede who finances far-right operations. Airplane makers who attacked the United States on September 11 were wealthy Saudis. For these people it was not about poverty but about ideological or religious conviction. Having said that, it is also important to stress that social vulnerability can increase the risk of a person being attracted by extremist messages. Part of the work to combat violent extremism is to create an inclusive and well-coordinated society. This can range from jobs to contact areas where the local community is strengthened. Today, there is often a lack of trust between citizens and authorities, especially the police, in exclusion areas. However, the work of the police, as well as employment policy, is outside the scope of this report. The four announcements of the Constitutional Committee, calls, to the government are, instead, about: Paragraph one is based on the premise that those who receive subsidies financed by taxpayers' money must be behind the fundamental principles of a democratic society, including human rights such as women's rights, freedom of expression and freedom of religion. As several examples have shown, the state has been too lax in its grant granting, and there is a clear risk that the same applies to the municipalities. In order to get both state authorities and municipalities to act coherently and thought through, the KU believes that the government should develop a strategy to ensure that state or municipal funds are not allocated to activities or measures that risk directly or indirectly supporting radicalisation, violent extremism or terrorism. Paragraph two concerns, as I said, how to deal with so-called IS-returners. If they are Swedish citizens, they cannot be prevented from entering the kingdom. Anyone who wants to change this thing must first change the constitution. So entry bans are not a realistic answer here and now. Instead, the starting point should be that police and prosecutors are doing everything in their power to clarify whether IS returnees have committed crimes and, if so, prosecute. Because of difficulties in securing evidence of what has really happened in Syria and Iraq, prosecution can sometimes be difficult. Active measures must then be put in place to try to persuade IS returnees, who cannot be prosecuted, to leave their old life, and those who choose to take the step must be met by a professional defector activity. A lot of time has been lost, as I see it, through a unilateral focus on mobilizing the municipalities and waiting for some voluntary organisation to start defecting for people who want to leave violent Islamism. It has not yet happened. France has the objective of having a state centre for reintegration in each region. The KU believes that the government should consider whether the state can organise drop-outs in order to take the lead in this way and not wait for the municipalities or voluntary sector to act. Of course, the activities can also turn to extreme Islamists who have not fought for IS in Syria and Iraq. This second call to the government also contains some points that point to the need for increased knowledge in municipalities about preventive work, in particular on work with IS-returners. In addition, the need for increased knowledge at school on how radicalisation can be detected and countered at an early stage is stressed. For the school it can be about increased knowledge of the content of violent ideologies and how radicalisation processes are carried out. It can also be a matter of knowledge about how to talk with students who may be at risk of radicalisation. My picture is that teachers are often too careful to challenge students who argue for anti-democratic views. The third point concerns an increased focus on the problem of solitary offenders. The KU believes that the problem of self-radicalisation should be more clearly included in the prevention of violent extremism. Among other things, more knowledge is needed about the mechanisms behind self-radicalisation and warning signs that can be observed. Point four means that the KU believes that a value-based work against gender inequality, homophobia and honour repression must be carried out. Our society's fundamental values are challenged, especially in some vulnerable suburbs and neighbourhoods. Honour-related violence and repression, female genital mutilation, virginity controls and forced marriages are expressions of unacceptable cultural and religious values that mainly restrict women's freedom. Part of the preventive work against violent extremism should be that the values that underpin democracy, including human rights, should be more rooted in more. Anyone who is not ready to stand up for the freedom of others shows little understanding of the essence of democracy. Repression of this kind occurs in different groupings of different religious affiliations, and the existence of anti-democratic and oppressive values may pose an increased risk of a breeding ground for Islamic radicalisation. Madam President, I would like Let me now turn directly to those who are supporters of any of these three violent, extremist orientations. You who are left-wing extremist say that you believe in justice and equality, but in fact you believe in the right of the strong and put yourself before everyone else. Democracy gives every person a voice – the clearest form of equality – but you do not accept democracy when you think the wrong decision is made. You're ready to use force and threats against opponents and police. When I say that the police's job is to protect the weak from abuse, you say, "All cops are bastards." But whoever hates the police also hates justice. Whoever throws stones at the police throws stones at the weak. Anyone who despises democracy also despises equality. You who are right-wing extremist say that you love Sweden, but in fact you hate everything that Sweden stands for. In Sweden, we have protected individuals' rights in different ways since the Middle Ages, and we created the world's first Freedom of the Press Act 250 years ago. The principle of the equal value of all people is reflected in the form of government and permeates all legislation. Sweden embarked on the road to democratisation already in 1809 and became a full democracy in 1921. You cannot love Sweden and hate democracy. You can't love Sweden and murder people with a different skin color. One cannot love Sweden and at the same time hate equality, freedom of expression and the rule of law. You who hate democracy also hate Sweden. You, a militant Islamist, believe that religion gives you the right to murder anyone who believes in anything other than what you do. You believe that societies will be built with violence and submission. You want to provoke suspicion of Muslims and create divisions in our society. We know that your extreme version of Islam is rejected by the vast majority of the world's Muslims. They share our disgust at the evil you stand for. We know that free societies are infinitely stronger and richer than societies based on fear and oppression. We know that our society and our cohesion can stand the ground for a terrorist attack or more. If you or your supporters try to attack Sweden again, we can promise that Sweden will not give in. Sweden will be ready. Sweden will resist and fight back. Madam President, I would like Last time the House debated violent extremism, in February 2016, I said that we are living in a serious and dramatic time, and that is even more true today. We live in a time when our democratic values and the way we live are being challenged. We live in a time when the banner of hate and extremism tries to win the hearts of young people – a time when our social contract and our community are being tested. We are being challenged, and we must not give in. We in this House must not give in. All the millions of people throughout Sweden who stand for democracy, the freedom of the individual, tolerance, openness, equality and all the other values that underpin our society must not give way. We must challenge the extremists' world view and paranoid conspiracy theories. We must challenge the hatred, the malice and the contempt for humanity. We must challenge the forces that want to turn young people all over Sweden into obedient tools in an extremist struggle. Democracy must be won by every new generation. Now it is we who are holding the torch of freedom – we in this House and we in this country. We shall keep that torch burning – because it is right, because it is good and because it is our duty.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-170	Madam President, I would like I should like to begin by saying that I am very pleased that we have managed to reach such broad agreement on this report. This may be the most important report that I have had to produce during my time in the Constitutional Committee. I would also like to thank President Norlén of the Moderates and Tina Acketoft of the Liberals for their good cooperation. I and Agneta Börjesson have spent a number of hours in the Chamber with them, and together we have sat and discussed and negotiated back and forth. I am very pleased that we have managed to reach this report, and I would also like to call for approval of the proposals contained in the report. After the wisdom that Mia Sydow Mölleby and Andreas Norlén have said here in the speaker's chair, I would like to add a little more personal story. I think there are many who, like me, will never forget where they were on Friday 7 April. The Constitutional Committee had held a KU hearing early in the morning. We had had an intern from Värmdö here all week. We finished earlier than expected, so the trainee had to leave at lunch. I'm very glad he got home before the events on Drottninggatan happened. The Social Democrats had their party congress in Gothenburg that weekend. I was supposed to be on a train that went 15 minutes past three but reschedule and left just after one. The last thing I did this Friday was to go into Åhléns and buy travel shampoo, because I was going on after Congress. The thought of what would have happened if I had taken the latter train has struck me from time to time. It hit me sitting there on the train and was reached by text messages and calls where people asked me what happened and if I was okay. This was before I realized what had happened and before I understood the extent of what had happened. Where are all the party partners? Where are the committeemates? Where are people? Where is everybody? Is something wrong? Such is the fear during the minutes before you finally manage to take in and understand the situation's full seriousness. There were a lot of people on Drottninggatan that day. We must be glad that things did not get even worse, even though what happened was terrible. I get angry, scared and sad. At the same time, that's exactly what they want – that we should be scared – and that makes me even more angry. I'm not gonna be scared. We shall stand up and defend democracy and the rights that we have, and this work to prevent violent extremism is part of it. As Mia Sydow Mölleby and Andreas Norlén have said, there are several different kinds of extremism. Everyone is just as dangerous, however, because everyone wants to destroy our democracy. We live in one of the best democracies in the world. We need to defend it and take care of it every day. It may be a matter of standing up to statements or of daring to take debates. We have proposed that the Riksdag address four announcements to the Government. The first announcement is about developing a strategy to ensure that activities or actions that risk supporting radicalisation, violent extremism or terrorism are not allocated state or municipal funds. This is a very good point. The second announcement concerns both the need for drop-outs and the need for the government to consider state drop-outs, as well as the need for increased knowledge among municipalities, schools and other actors. It's important because we need knowledge. Also, if we do not have knowledge, we cannot respond to the threats to us and to the democracy in which we live. Research on solitary terrorists and the mechanisms of self-radicalisation is also an important factor. We need more knowledge and research in this area. We also need value-based work against gender inequality, homophobia and honour repression. I believe that we are met by every day whether we are in the Parliament House or out in a shop or in a workplace. It's happening everywhere. We need to be able to respond to this, and we also need to be able to respond to and defend this democracy in which we live. Once again, I would like to thank you very much. I am very pleased that we have produced this report, and I look forward to pushing the button at the vote to approve it.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-187	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to thank you for the really good work that has been going on here this spring. The KU is now debating the KU23 Prevention of violent extremism with 36 movements from the general exercise time but also so much more. These issues have become increasingly topical. Just as Veronica Lindholm here before expressed, they have over the years become increasingly personal as the stories are getting closer and more and more people know exactly what happened on April 7th or when Behring Breivik performed his deed and so on. We know exactly where we were, and we know exactly what we were doing. It goes under the skin of us. The Nordic countries have suffered from extremist acts linked to right-wing forces and Islamist extremism and performed by soloists with an ideological agenda and rather basic means to help – at the deed on Drottninggatan and most recently in London only one car. Prevention is not easy. It's not easy to spot. Nevertheless, the demands on us politicians are that we must, of course, get better at it. After each act, new demands will be made to do more. Often the first idea is to give the police and Säpo the resources to increase surveillance. In parallel with the fact that we have produced this report, such discussions have been going on between the government parties and the alliance parties in the framework of terrorist talks. At the same time, there is also much to be done to prevent those groupings that are growing strong from having a breeding ground to continue to grow. Much work is being done in the world. The committee has been in France this spring to see how they are slowly building up their preventive activities. There the repressive elements have been very strong. France has had many attacks and is currently living in a state of emergency. It also has some old legislation that directly breeds more suspicion. For example, there is legislation that allows Catholic churches to receive support for their buildings and, at the same time, there is a ban on some form of support for mosques, which unfortunately means that mosques are often financed directly through, for example, Saudi Arabia or other conservative and renegade countries. The committee has also taken in knowledge from the Minister for Culture, the National Coordinator and Säpo during three hearings, which have provided a lot of information on all new work being done in the framework of preventive work. The issues of violent extremism have been big for a long time. We usually distinguish between right-wing and left-wing extremism, which many have been talking about, which has been around for a long time and Islamist extremism that has grown stronger in recent years. The National Coordinator was appointed by the then government in 2014. Since then, the coordinator has received several additional assignments, and is now investigating the possibility of permanent activities. Since the appointment of the coordinator, more and more municipalities have started to develop a local action plan. I was recently in my municipality and listened to how to do it. This work is going on at the basic level right now. A national strategy has been developed and the knowledge base is continuously produced. The committee, like others, proposes four announcements in the report. Some of the issues have also been discussed in the context of the ongoing terrorist talks. We have tried to keep it so that it will land in the preventive work in a good way. The first announcement is that the government will develop a strategy to ensure that activities or measures that risk supporting radicalisation, violent extremism or terrorism will not be able to get money. We need to be sure of that. Here the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society has already started work at national level. We now hope that there will be good support for municipalities so that they can also get help and see what they can do at the local level. We also have an announcement about the need for drop-outs and the need for knowledge about drop-outs and schools in the municipalities. We have an announcement about lonewolves and research on self-radicalisation and value-based work in terms of gender equality, homophobia and honour repression. These are good announcements and we stand behind them. Once again, I would like to thank you for your very good cooperation and to support the committee's proposal.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-200	Madam President, I would like We in Parliament's parties and in the Constitutional Committee have had extensive work to prepare and prepare the issues dealt with in our case on the prevention of violent terrorism. In a party motion with Annie Lööf and several signatories, the Center Party has highlighted the municipalities' responsibility for preventing terrorism and the confidentiality problems that exist in the necessary cooperation between the municipalities' social activities and the police to prevent radicalisation and terrorist crimes. The Center Party has participated in a committee motion from the alliance parties with a large number of proposals to prevent crime and protect democracy. Islamic radicalisation and terrorist crime are a particularly topical and serious issue which, if we do not handle it properly, can threaten our democracy and the way we live in Sweden and in Europe. Religious fanaticism has historically been a threat to people's lives and freedom. We must take the current threats very seriously and severely punish those who in various ways support, prepare and contribute to the crimes of terror against innocent people. We must have a police officer and other authorities who are vigilant against the threats. At the same time, it is important that we live as usual. Otherwise, those who threaten us have succeeded and our society has failed. In the KU, the Alliance parties have put forward proposals for a committee initiative, and our joint work in committee has led to four largely unanimous announcements to the government. In the government, several measures are already being prepared, partly on the basis of earlier announcements, partly on the basis of proposals from the coordinator against violent terrorism. What we from the KU are now highlighting in the announcement is to ensure that state and municipal funds are not allocated to activities that support radicalisation, extremism and terror and that the government should consider the need for a state drop-out. We want to increase the knowledge of the municipalities, and we want the government to look at the need for research on self-radicalisation and the threat posed by solitary terrorists. We must pursue value-based work in our country against inequality, homophobia and honour repression. In December 2015, the Center Party participated in an agreement between the alliance parties and the government parties on counter-terrorism measures. In June 2016, the National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator presented its strategy against violent extremism. In December 2016, the coordinator handed over his interim report Safeguarding democracy against violent extremism – national coordination and the responsibility of municipalities. In March, the National Coordinator highlighted the shortcomings in the work of returnees from terrorist travel. The security police, Säpo, make contact with the returnees, but what happens in the municipalities where they live? The Police Authority has requested the Government to review the confidentiality rules, which are an obstacle to police contacts with the social authorities in the municipalities. The question is being prepared within the Government Office. As I said, this issue was also raised in the Party Movement of the Center Party last October – it is very urgent. I very much hope that the government will quickly resolve this problem, which is now a serious obstacle to the prevention and prevention of terrorist crimes. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the Constitutional Committee's report on the prevention of violent terrorism.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-207	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the report that we are now debating. It is negotiated on the basis of an initiative by the Alliance and a motion by the Alliance, where I have been involved. I welcome the good cooperation to achieve the four announcements now added to all the announcements we have made in the past. The Constitutional Committee has a responsibility here in Parliament to deal with preventive work against violent extremism. The Committee on Justice is responsible for the more police repression and protection, but the KU has the preventive responsibility. Sometimes terrorism gets very close. Veronica Lindholm spoke about how she was nearby when she was going to her party congress. I was in the same situation. I was on Master Samuelsgatan and had signed out a rental car to drive to the Party Congress of the Christian Democrats, which took place in Karlstad. When I was driving, I thought, should I take off to Drottninggatan? No, I'll take a right and get out there. I'm not very familiar with driving in central Stockholm – I walk more than I drive. But now I had a rental car and was going to Karlstad. I had not come far from Mäster Samuelsgatan, which is just a few blocks from the place where the terrorist drove into Åhlénshuset, until police cars came as hornets. They were everywhere and drove through traffic lanes and made their way quickly and efficiently. I wondered what had happened, and as I was doing, I picked up my cell phone as I stood still with the car. I looked at the Internet flow and saw that it had apparently been a terrorist attack just a few blocks from where I had been. Then it gets close, and one feels: We all have to stand up to this. The KU has its work, and it has been explained in detail the various announcements that we have had about strategies, about drop-outs, about solitary work and about value-based work. I will not go further into this – as has already been said by colleagues, and I support it. The Internet is extremely important. New generations are being recruited there, and we discover that it is the strongest base for getting more people into IS and similar terrorist organisations – here, in the middle of Sweden. I would like to highlight one thing that is particularly important, and that is that we cooperate with civil society. We politicians and the repressive forces – police and justice – cannot deal with this alone. We must bring Muslim civil society with us. We have to bring all the good organisations out there. We have to bring the school with us. We have stated how important it is not to give support to organisations that support extremism or that do not support our democratic values. It is particularly gratifying to hear that one of the first to strongly condemn the recent terrorist attack in London was the mayor. One might think that it belongs to his work, and it possibly does. But he's a Muslim himself. He went out in an article in the Times in which he strongly condemned the act. In addition, he said: We in Muslim civil society must do more. Of course, such a voice has only civil society – it cannot be ordered. We can long for and encourage, but we cannot order it. But it is something precious when families are supported, when mosques are supported and when the imams are supported in not legitimising IS, Al-Qaeda and similar organisations. The mayor's condemnation was followed by 130 imams, who refuse to bury the three terrorists. You have to be more than secularized Swedish to understand what a strong statement it is. There are clear deadlines in Islam for when to be buried, and the funeral is very important. These 130 religious leaders in Islam say: We do not bury them. This is strong, persuasive and worthy of encouragement. Here in Sweden, right after the attack on Drottninggatan in April, Sweden's imamrådet went out and condemned the attack. This is worth encouraging and highlighting. When we talk about a government drop-out, it should not, I mean, be understood in the light of someone from above to tell others and brainwash. But it should be taken into account to help these people out of the religious error that the majority of Islam says they are in, in organised national form. This is not mainstream in Islam, it is an aversion and something that the rest of Islam rejects. This is happening more or less clearly, because we should not forget that there is a threat to Muslims which is too clearly dissociating. Having said that, I would like to support the committee's proposal and thank you for your work. We realise that this is just the beginning of a very important work, where we all have to hook our arms. In particular, I would like to highlight civil society.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-220	Madam President, I would like Last Saturday, another horrifying act of terror shook London. For those of us who have friends and acquaintances who live and work in London, it followed a few anxious hours while trying to locate people and watch news reports. It was not only an attack on the innocent people who happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time, but it was also an attack on everything Western culture stands for: freedom, democracy and civil liberties. The recent terrorist attack was just one in a series of many similar events. The attacks in Stockholm, Paris and the previous event in London not long ago were carried out in a similar way – a vehicle whose driver ruthlessly mowed people down the open street. In Brussels and Manchester, explosions were triggered in crowds. Last Saturday, the violence was taken to a new level when the terrorists jumped out of the vehicle and started stabbing people. These are acts of disgust. The fact that radicalisation is taking place in Sweden and Europe should be beyond any reasonable doubt. We verige democrats believe that it is important to detect and combat radicalisation as early as possible. In our neighbouring country Denmark, work to prevent violent extremism – and especially Islamism – has progressed considerably further than in Sweden. This is, of course, partly due to the way in which authorities collaborate with social services, schools and recreation centres in a much more structured way than in Sweden, but it is also due to the fact that the political debate has long been much straighter and clearer than in Sweden. In Denmark, there is no political correctness. There we dare to point out the problems of uncontrolled immigration. It dares to propose concrete and effective legislation to the extent necessary. Here in Sweden we have chosen another way. We have chosen to close our eyes to the problems for a long time. Now that we're in the middle of the dead end, we choose to wake up. It's a late awakening for many. It is in any case gratifying that the Swedish Democrats have had the view for a long time that something must be done about these problems. Municipalities, schools, police and social services now need to increase their understanding of the radicalisation process. It can be about training about the content of the violent ideologies, but also about the symbols associated with them. We also believe that there are reasons to steer knowledge and compliance with existing action plans – it's not just about issuing action plans, it should also be able to stick to them and know what applies in different situations – in order to be able to act properly when a student is at risk of radicalisation. In addition, the school needs to be better at communicating with those at risk. This applies, in particular, to the areas mentioned in the previously mentioned 2015 report on vulnerable areas, which are identified as places where violent religious extremism is preached, or where persons participated or participated in combat mainly for IS. We see such areas in Malmö where recruitment of IS warriors takes place openly in cafés. We also see them in Gothenburg where Salafist imams even in these student times pose threats to student celebrations. In these areas more extensive efforts are needed and we would therefore like to see a follow-up to the report and that this follow-up proposes concrete measures to counter radicalisation. Another important issue concerns those who have travelled to join terrorist activities in other countries. There is a clear dividing line between Parliament's parties. The majority of the committee, consisting of six parties of sick leaves, wants the government to set up a state drop-out activity for so-called IS returnees and other supporters of violent Islamism. We verige democrats do not share this view. Our firm belief is that for those who have travelled to fight with IS or similar terrorist groups, the border with Sweden should be closed. There is therefore no reason to set up a drop-off activity. It is only an expression of emergency solutions and concessions for a badly conducted immigration policy. Instead, we should send a clear signal to these people that they are no longer welcome to Sweden. Having said that, I am in favour of the reservations of the Swedish Democrats 7 and 10.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-229	Madam President, I would like This debate concerns a fundamentally important report by the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee, namely the report on what is commonly referred to as letter 75, the Government's annual report to the Riksdag on how the Government has dealt with Parliament's letters to the Government, or – in other words – to what extent the Government has implemented Parliament's decisions. Decisions on so-called announcements are particularly interesting. The background to the Government's report is as follows. Almost every time the Riksdag makes a decision on a matter of substantive policy, the Riksdag sends information to the Government about the decision taken. Once a year, the Government reports to the Riksdag how it has handled all the letters sent from the Riksdag to the Government. What letters have been completed and what letters remain? That is the accounting we are now debating. I am pleased that the Constitutional Committee has been able to agree across all party boundaries on this year's position which provides important guidelines for the view of letter 75. I hope that we will also be able to have a united view of the principles for the handling of Parliament's announcements in the coming years. As you know, an announcement is a decision on an order from the Riksdag to the Government, for example that the Government will investigate an issue and return to the Riksdag with legislative proposals. The legal status of the announcements is not regulated by the Constitution or the Parliamentary Order, except in a small detail, but they are subject to legal standards in the form of established constitutional practice, not least developed by the KU for a long period of years. The starting point is that the Government should satisfy the Riksdag's announcements. Preparation measures following a notice shall be initiated as soon as possible. If the Government does not intend to comply with an announcement, it shall inform the Riksdag thereof and state its reasons. Only in exceptional circumstances should it take longer than two three years to complete a notice. The reasonableness of time depends on the complexity of preparing the notice, such as whether or not extensive investigative measures are required. Every year in the so-called letter 75 – the report that we are now debating – the Government will report on how the Riksdag's announcements have been handled. The starting point is therefore that announcements should be met. However, a certain request from the Riksdag may, after an investigation, prove to be practically impossible or, on good grounds, inappropriate to implement. It is reasonable to add the notice to the file without further action. Refusing to implement Parliament's decisions for political reasons is another matter. Since the current government took office in October 2014, the Riksdag has, as you know, sent a record number of announcements to the Government. The follow-up, which we are now discussing, is carried out so that once the KU has received the Government's annual report, the KU asks the other committees to comment on how the Government has implemented the Riksdag's decisions in the respective areas of responsibility. This year there are unusually many cases where the committees are not satisfied with the government's accounts in letter 75. If I have counted correctly, there are 18 cases in which the Government considers that an announcement has been finalised and that view is not shared by the committee concerned, which therefore requires further action. In 18 cases, relating to announcements that the government continues to work on, the committees have clear objections to the government's work and, in many cases, feel that the government is acting too slowly or arguing that the government has not yet taken any known action in response to the announcement. In addition, the committees make other comments in eight cases. The fact that the government is given back homework in 18 cases and encounters objections in another 18 cases can be described as the level of conflict between the government and the Riksdag is relatively high, especially in some committees. A majority in the committees calls for action, and the government seems moderately interested in doing what the committees want. The KU has therefore tried in several ways in this year's report to develop and clarify its practice with regard to announcements. Let me give you a few examples. Sometimes announcements contain several parts. The government is invited in the same announcement to make A, B and C. The KU points out that, in such cases, the government must report on its actions in respect of all parts of the announcement. The Transport Committee and the Defence Committee point out that there are examples that this is not always the case. The KU also points out that the committees should give their views on the government's treatment of announcements in the first bill in which the government reports on measures taken in response to a notice. In some cases the committees have been presented in a bill, but have not reacted. Instead, the reaction has only come in connection with the examination of letter 75. The committees should therefore react as early as possible. The KU also says that in some cases reporting can be divided into a formal part and a more political part. For example, the Committee on Transport and Tourism called for a flight strategy to be drawn up. When the government returned with a flight strategy, there was no objection to the formal part – i.e. that there had been a strategy – while the majority of the committees were dissatisfied with the political content of the strategy. Both perspectives are relevant for assessing whether or not an announcement is met. The KU further points out that announcements should be as clear as possible. It will then be easier to implement the announcement and easier to follow up whether or not sufficient has been done. At the same time, the government should be clear as to whether or not it considers that an announcement is satisfied by a given measure. When it comes to unsolicited announcements – those that the government is working on – the KU concludes that it assumes that the government takes account of the statements made by the committees. This means that the Government must urgently take further action and return to the Riksdag as soon as possible. There are also different reasonings regarding announcements which the government considers to have been finalised, but when this point is not shared by the committees. The starting point is, as has been said, that the Government should satisfy the Riksdag's announcements, but if the Government does not agree with the Riksdag's opinion, the Government should inform the Riksdag accordingly. A distinction should be made here. The normal thing is that announcements are finalized by being provided for by the government. However, it is also possible that there are reasons not to comply with a notice. Before it you can see that announcements are finished without being satisfied. In the report, the KU gives an example of this, namely the fact that the Parliament announced to the government that it wanted legislation that criminalised so-called aftersanction, which means drinking alcohol after having had a road accident and therefore suspected of drunk driving. After an investigation and consultation, the Government concluded that it would not be appropriate to criminalise aftersanctions, and this was accepted by the Riksdag. In this case, the notice is thus finalised even though it is not satisfied. In the report, the KU reports on the eight steps that can be chiseled out for the process when announcements are to be assessed. The interpreter's representative is therefore with the Riksdag. As I said, there are 18 cases in which the committees concerned, particularly the Committee on Justice, do not share the opinion of the government. The KU does not make its own assessment of each of these notices. I think it is reasonable that the substantive assessment of whether announcements are met or not be made by the specialist committees, because they have the political expertise in each area. KU, on the other hand, draws up the principled guidelines and develops practices. The fact that we in the committee have adhered precisely to principles and practices enabled us to reach agreement. The conflicts of substance have not had to spill into committee. However, it follows from KU's reasoning, as the report also shows, that where a committee has stated in an opinion that an announcement has not been finalised, the government has to return to Parliament with its accounts and assessments. Thus, the ball has been sent back to the government, and further action is expected. I think that the committee has developed the current practice and would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-256	Madam President, I would like The parliamentary situation poses a number of challenges for the division of responsibilities between the parliament and the government. We have, on the one hand, the task of the Riksdag to pass laws, decide on taxes to the State and decide how the state's funds are to be used, in accordance with Chapter 1 of the Government Form. 4 §. On the other hand, we have the government's task of ruling the kingdom and constantly accountable to the Riksdag, in accordance with Chapter 1 of the government form. 6 §. Finally, we have a common responsibility to protect and take care of our country Sweden with everything it means. This places demands on a developed and perhaps more refined association between parliament and government where previously unexplored terrain, white spots on the constitutional map, should be explored and mapped. In this way, respect for the rules of government is made possible. What happens, for example, when the announcements of the parliamentary majority sometimes clash with the government's declared ambitions in the government declaration and budget bill? This is exactly what we in the Constitutional Committee have been discussing recently. Madam President, I would like The constitutional practice that has emerged with regard to announcements means that the starting point should be that the government caters for them. However, announcements are not legally binding, and if the Government does not agree with the majority of Parliament on a matter and does not intend to meet its wishes, the Government should inform the Riksdag accordingly. What does this really mean? This white spot we in the KU have tried to explore and jointly map with the constitutional framework given by the constitutions. This is obviously done to facilitate the work and tasks of the Riksdag and to increase transparency for the media and in general in their understanding and scrutiny of all of us. What have we landed in? In the view of the KU21, we put out the words – which is not unusual in the case of the KU – on this and present the eight-point list that the President summarised earlier and which I intend to repeat. It provides the following: We recognize this from past practice, and that is nothing new. In fact, this is not something very new either, but it has never been formulated like this before. Madam President, I would like This gives both us in the Riksdag and the members of the government – not to say Sweden as a country – a clarified map to orient ourselves from outside when announcements are made. But someone may now think: What happens if the parliament makes an announcement and the government does not intend to satisfy this and thus indicates that it is finished? And what happens if the parliament does not settle for this but makes a new announcement, whereupon the government merely repeats its opinion? Does it go around like that forever? This has never really been put at its head in the last decade. But if this should happen, the Riksdag can of course, as always, use its instruments of control and power against the government. However, it has been more common to simply agree. Madam President, I would like The KU21 also contains many other things, but the new one is above all what I have just talked about. However, I would like to take this opportunity to mention some further issues raised by the Constitutional Committee in this report. I would like to highlight four points here. Firstly, we would like to make it clear that the KU does not assess the substance of the declarations made by the various specialist committees. We are dealing with the opinions of the committees from a constitutional point of view. This means that, in principle, we do not assess the substance of the opinions and announcements of the various specialist committees. Secondly, we point out that it is perfectly possible for the government to present its actions on the basis of an announcement in, for example, the budget bill. If the Government then does not meet with objections, it should be able to assume that the Riksdag does not object to the handling reported. Thirdly, we have dealt with the issue of the distinction between formal reporting and political content, and it is important that the government is clear about what its treatment of parliamentary announcements has been like. But for the government to be able to be clear, the announcements of the Riksdag must be clear – which we as Members of Parliament, if we are to be a little self-critical, perhaps not everyone knows is always the case. One recent case due to this distinction between formal reporting and political content that we write about in the report is the announcement in the area of the Transport Committee on the aviation strategy. Fourthly, we in the Constitutional Committee believe that it may be natural for the government's accounts to be brief when relatively short time has elapsed from the announcement to the adoption of letter 75 by the government. We also believe that it is understandable that it may be difficult for the government to report more comprehensive measures regarding announcements that were decided in the autumn before the letter, while the government is of course always expected to act promptly and to provide a correct and detailed statement. Madam President, I would like On behalf of the Social Democrats, I would like to thank the other parties in the committee for good and constructive talks. We have been keen to try to reach as far as we can from our positions to develop the relationship between Parliament and the government. Finally, it is about protecting and caring for Sweden and our democracy. For this, our constitutions are indispensable. And in these times of uncertainty, both parliamentary and external, the need to protect and promote the democratic and peaceful governance of our country is being strengthened and protected by our constitutions. Madam President, I would like Given this, including the fact that we agree on all parts, we Social Democrats have not reserved ourselves. On the other hand, we have made a special opinion to emphasise that we are not making a different assessment from our party colleagues in the various specialist committees when, in their dealings with areas, they have given different opinions on certain issues on the substance. Finally, I would like to support the proposal in the Constitutional Committee's report 21 on the handling of Parliament's letters.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-275	Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee has taken note of letter 75, the Government's report on the handling of Parliament's letters for 2016. Although there is still some potential for improvement in some areas, the letter is, on the whole, a good account of the handling of Parliament's letters. The report has become more detailed in recent years, although in some places it would be desirable for the text to be slightly expanded. The Swedish Democrats have criticised the government's view on whether or not certain announcements should be met at the earlier reading of letter 75. In this context, we have pointed out that it is an undesirable shift of practice if the government considers itself to have a different starting point from meeting announcements. That is precisely why it is good that the Constitutional Committee clearly states and maintains that the starting point for an announcement is that it should be followed. If the Government makes a different assessment, it must notify the Riksdag. In that case, the reasons for non-compliance with the notice should also be given. We are therefore pleased that the committee's position makes a very clear description of what concerns the handling of announcements. It is important that this order is followed, otherwise the responsibility for the preparation of matters is suspended from the government to the parliament and the whole democratic process is eliminated. It is the Riksdag that represents the people, and for this very reason it is important that the Parliament's will also have an impact in practical politics. Much has been said by the previous speaker. The subject is well exhausted, so I think it's enough about the formalities themselves. On the other hand, I would like to highlight an aspect which, at least, I am stuck with in this year's letter. I am thinking of the impact of EU law on the constitutions and amending constitutions. Between 2001 and 2016, around a quarter of all new laws were based on the implementation of EU directives. That's a pretty substantial percentage. Of course, it is said that this varies over time, but the statistics clearly show that the proportion of laws based on EU law has increased sharply and is now at levels that we have not seen in ten years. If this is a coincidence or has to do with increased legislative activity on the part of the EU, the coming years will have to be revealed. At the same time, we cannot ignore the fact that at the moment there is a certain level of European legislation which affects, in many respects, not only national decision-making but also the pace of national legislation. We think it is an unfortunate development if that is the case. Having said that, I am leaving the matter and calling for the proposal of the Constitutional Committee to be approved.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-282	Madam President, I would like It is an annual highlight when we treat the KU21. You might think that letter 75 is a bit nerdy, but it is an extremely good part of the compilation you can make of the political years back in time. You can see quite clearly where there is strife. Of course, not all strife comes with it, but very much of the political strife that has been in recent years actually comes in. There are also some minor issues, but it is very interesting to read about the policy itself. It is also extremely interesting to follow how the government deals with all these, so to speak, statements from the committees that something should be done – what investigations are being set up, what evidence is being produced, what legislation is coming as a result. Although it sounds a bit nerdy, I can certainly recommend reading this letter, because it is quite a lot of politics. What we do in the KU and what we focus on above all is to formulate common rules of the game. That is why it is extremely important – especially when you have a minority government – that the rules of the game work well between the Riksdag, where the political majority often exists, and the government, where those who are going to do the work themselves are. Last year, the KU drew attention to what was being done by a lot of committees, namely negative announcements which basically wanted to tie the government away from setting up investigations or doing certain things. We noticed the danger of this and what can happen if you go too far here. It may be important to set up an investigation; it may be important for a government to seek compromises. What we are looking at this time is that, in the eight points that both Andreas Norlén and Mrs Naraghi have touched upon, it is even more clear that an announcement must be met absolutely and as quickly as possible. That is point number one; we have agreed on that before, and we continue to agree on that. In paragraph two, we write that the government will return if it notices that for some reason this is not working. Objections have been investigated or found that the Riksdag was not aware of at the time. Then you should return to the Riksdag and announce it. The government also has the right to declare that something has been closed, and the Riksdag in turn has the right to say yes to it or to say through the committees: No, we probably did not think that those parts were finished. The committee and Parliament interpret, and then decide whether it is finished. If it is not completed, as we in Parliament say, the government will return. This is very important ground rules for cooperation between Parliament and the government, and it is very important that we make this even more clear. After all, as Mrs Naraghi mentioned in her speech, we have a special opinion on the KU assessment and the opinions of the various committees. It is important to point out from our parties that we naturally support the opinions made in the committees. However, we do not review the committees, but we support the great report.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-291	Madam President, I would like A few years ago I had a friend who moved from Stockholm to Värmland. He got a good job and bought a farm a bit beyond the highway, well aware that he would commute quite a long time daily. After a while I asked him: Well, how do you like it here in Värmland? How's the commuting going? He replied: I like it very well, and the job is fun. But I really miss one thing, and it's the rock channel on the radio. I also commuted in Stockholm, but then I could listen to rock music all the time; I can't now. We've never had a rock channel in Värmland. Maybe it'll be possible now. Perhaps it will be possible to use a channel that focuses on health and lifestyle, religion, nature or culture – what do I know? That is not what we are going to consider in this House today. What we have to consider is whether we want to create the conditions for greater competition and diversity in radio, alongside the excellent Swedish Radio. This case concerns a government bill on commercial radio. The Government's proposals concern an amendment to the Radio and Television Act, which gives the Press, Radio and Television Authority more opportunity and freedom to shape broadcasting areas in the analogue network intended for commercial radio in particular, with a view to achieving greater competition and diversity than we have today. The proposal also deals with rules on the transfer and withdrawal of permits. Will this, then, have any practical significance? Will we citizens have a wider range of radio? Yes, we cannot say that right now, but conditions should certainly increase. We Swedes are a radio listening people. By replacing the current provision, which limits broadcasting areas, the possibility of commercially viable projects can benefit more. PTS's planning work is based on the following three priorities regarding broadcasting permits: The assignment will be handed over on 30 June this year, and new broadcasting permits will start on 1 August 2018. Today, two players have total dominance in the market, so for the future we should strive for increased competition and greater diversity. For the same reason, it is important that the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Authority be allowed to authorise transfers of broadcasting licences so that a new oligopolistic market does not arise. So maybe we get a rock channel in Värmland too. Are there any risks with these proposals? Yes, there is a risk that should not be minimized and which is mentioned both in the bill and in the motion that Andreas Norlén and others have put forward in connection with it. As the security threat to our country increases and inventiveness seems to be great in terms of how to work both legally and illegally in a country, there is every reason to include these aspects in the work on a national security strategy. After dialogue with the government's representatives, the committee has found that such work is ongoing and that the government has to return to Parliament and the committee with information about it. So with this, honourable Members of Parliament and Madam President, I would ask you to support the committee's proposal in the KU28 as a whole.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-301	Madam President, I would like Does the President listen much to the radio? I suspect so. We do, just as Berit Högman said; we are a radio listening people. To our delight, in our country we have quite a wide range of radio stations, at least since 1993, when the then bourgeois government released the market for both commercial and advertising-funded radio. We are perhaps some in this House who have the honourable age that we remember what it was like before this time, when we were referring to the certainly excellent public service radio Swedish Radio, which, according to the vast majority of sympathy polls we have seen over the years, has high confidence. When you wanted to listen to something else, especially perhaps today's music, you turned in some pirate broadcasts at this time, in the 80's, or why not AM 208? I say Radio Luxemburg, and some of us may smile a little recognition – others, for a little younger generations, perhaps not. Much has happened, Madam President, since 1993. As the previous speaker mentioned, we have had a great deal of choice, especially around the big cities. The legislation was also aimed at highlighting local radio, and there has also been a major development in local radio stations, but also in the field of public service radio and commercial radio in particular – but not to the same extent throughout the country for commercial radio as for public radio. As for public radio, by the way, I was thinking of Berit Högman's friend, who likes to listen to rock. So does yours truly. From today on, if you want to listen live, you are welcome to the Sweden Rock Festival down in Norje Boke, with 35,000 visitors. One of Sweden's most popular local radio stations, P4 Radio Blekinge, broadcasts live, but so do NRJ and Mix Megapol. Madam President, I would like To return to the subject: The change we are now seeing, the need to also change the broadcasting permits and what the government has put forward in its bill is a continuation of the work that began at the Ministry of Culture by the bourgeois government and is now being carried out by the present government. This is a good thing, and that is why we also agree on what is written in the report. Madam President, during the proceedings in various configurations, we have met representatives of the commercial radio operators. We have discussed and considered the advantages and possible disadvantages that may arise from legislative changes. What we have done, as the government also does, is to bring in some of the economic aspects that are nevertheless the reality of commercial radio. It's expensive to broadcast the radio. As a result, it is not only our ambition to obtain coverage nationally that the changes in broadcasting permits are aimed at, but also, on the part of both the government and the committee, there are comments on the economic conditions for operating commercial radio. However, we and also the government leave some leeway to the two authorities that have to deal with the licensing – the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency and the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency – to obtain the various permits in cooperation with the various actors, with the different considerations that have to be taken into account. Madam President, I would like I want to dive a little into the motion that the alliance parties have brought. We proposed that the government should also investigate the safety aspect of the issuing of permits. As my colleague, Berit Högman, pointed out, we have seen the impact of information in various forms in many places in Europe, not least in our Baltic neighbours. In doing so, we have also raised a warning flag which means that we want to take account of and, as we proposed, investigate the broadcasting permits, so that operators for purposes other than producing commercial radio do not have access to them. In the course of our work, we have received assurances from the government that this will be taken into account in the government's national security strategy. We have therefore found it good to withdraw our proposal for an announcement in that part, but of course we will be following this issue very closely. It is important in each committee to have a safety mindset at this time, when we are all concerned by these issues in one respect or another. From the alliance parties we saw that there could be a security threat here. We are now awaiting the work of the government in this regard and will follow it. On behalf of the Alliance, I therefore support the committee's proposal and await the work to be done by the various authorities this autumn.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-312	Madam President, I would like Good morning! I really hope you had as wonderful a national day as I had yesterday and felt that you had the opportunity to celebrate properly. Then I dare not say for sure how the red-green mess over at the Ministry of Culture would really like to relate to us Swedes expressing national pride. I've seen and heard a lot of strange things coming from there through the ages, including a cultural heritage bill whose main purpose seems to have been to abolish all what cultural heritage is called, or at least the Swedish one. The prevention of violent extremism has clearly failed miserably, and a media support investigation has been presented, for example, which would probably even cause the authoritarian regime in Turkey to be a little embarrassed. It was therefore not with very high expectations that I received a proposal on certain radio issues from this particular department. I have to admit that my first spontaneous thought was: Wonder how many pages I need to read before there is a direct rejection of everything. But I read and read, judging my astonishment when, as with a few details here and there, I came to the conclusion that it actually seems quite well thought out. The closest illustration I can make is that one goes to the movies and sees a film without any expectations but is positively surprised – or perhaps even a blind hen can find a grain. What, then, is it that enables me and the Swedish Democrats to support this very proposal from an otherwise anti-cultural and anti-democracy department? Well, in the light of previous failures one seems to have at least found the right funding and approach, namely that we should move towards greater competition and hopefully more distinctive variation, rather than everything being rolled into the same grey-beige mainstream fold with the same nihilistic insignificance as usual. And I very much hope that it will be successful, also in the forthcoming practical application at the level of the authorities, so that it will not be with the radio as with the pre-support, where, despite good intentions about free exchange of views and comprehensive information, with few exceptions, we have only received more of the same. Then it doesn't matter so much whether it's intellectually numbing squabble radio, like Rix hit and Mix there, or pure socialist propaganda in the form of Work, Flame or any of the umpteen different variants of Today's ETC. After all, a follow-up motion was introduced to the bill. This was something that the Swedish Democrats think is important and for a long time have fought for, namely to be able to maintain national sovereignty and integrity from outside pressure. On the whole, I think that the committee has handled the motion relatively well, in that the government has to incorporate and review attempts at third country advocacy campaigns through commercial radio into the overall national security strategy. For us it seems obvious that if, for example, any other state tries to impose a lot of propaganda or other things on our population that they do not have to deal with, we should be able to pull out the cord and pull in all kinds of states and so on. But the accompanying motion and the regulations in general have a couple of problems and shortcomings. The most significant shortcomings are that they are mainly limited to security-oriented misinformation from third countries outside the EU. We Swedish democrats believe that Sweden as a nation, through democratically adopted laws and decisions, should reserve the right to decide and govern for itself what information cannot be considered legal or desirable and that the same rules should apply to anyone who wants to operate on the Swedish market – this regardless of what information it is about and whether it is a Swedish, European or other actor. If a Swedish-based radio operator is not allowed to commit freedom of expression offences or target alcohol advertising to minors, no one else should do so, whether the broadcasts come from Poland or Russia. In addition, in one case we need to go to the European Commission and ask for permission to enforce Swedish rules in Sweden seems completely absurd. Although we can generally accept the sending country principle as a starting point, I will come back to these issues more when the time comes to debate future proposals for the new EU AV directives. In the meantime, however, I am content to support the committee's proposal on this matter.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-319	Madam President, I would like After the previous Swedish-Democracy speaker's rallar wings, I will now go back to the subject. We are now debating the KU28, some issues relating to commercial radio, which deal with the government's proposal with the same title as well as a follow-up motion. The development since the commercial radio started broadcasting in Sweden has moved towards greater concentration. All radio companies – both Swedish Radio and commercial companies – have been very keen to be able to offer more radio. They would have liked it to have been in the form of digital radio, which they have also looked at. The government has conducted an investigation into this. Ultimately, it was found that it was difficult to guarantee that radio broadcasts in emergency would operate comprehensively. This was put in a grind bag. Instead, this minor change is now being made to allow more efficient use of existing networks. In just over a year's time, the current commercial radio licences will expire. All permits must then be re-announced. In other words, it is a very good opportunity to take the opportunity to correct the legislation, so that broadcasting areas and frequency planning can provide as much coverage as possible. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency will therefore return to the Government on the last June next year with proposals for the new frequency planning. Today's proposal and the government proposal will provide improved opportunities for commercial broadcasters to broadcast much larger broadcasting areas than is happening today. It's good for those of us who listen a lot to the radio. We are also dealing with a exercise that others have been doing. The committee agrees with a proposal to approve the proposal and reject the motion. In fact, it can be said that we from the government parties share the concerns about what could happen if a foreign power were to buy up a radio station and thus be able to send a lot of messages from a Swedish radio station. But what we see from the committee is that the government will come back and will look at this in particular within the framework of the national security strategy. There we have an opportunity to follow up on the work that is being done. With that, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-324	Mrs. alman! I will see if I can try to get some rallies in this speech as well. Yesterday was one of our main holidays off, and I have to admit that I had the priority of being out celebrating National Day properly in front of perfecting another speaker. That is why this speech can be a little improvised. That does not mean, however, that we improvised during the actual preparation of this dossier. On the contrary, we are monitoring this, and we consistently reserve ourselves every time the government tries to seduce the public and hide the costs of its irresponsible migration policy by moving appropriations from areas 8 and 13 to somewhere else, where it may give the impression that the costs could just as well be attributed to measures for ordinary Swedes. This is how we have done it this time too. Now it is the far from insignificant cost of the e-mail, i.e. 3 600 million, that is trying to sweep under the carpet and sneak in under the much more general spending area of the labour market and working life. In addition, some costs of the start-up allowance have already been taken away. We think that they should rather be accounted for under Category 13 Equal opportunities and the establishment of newly arrived immigrants. Regarding the first part of Category 13, gender equality, the government proposes to take funds from other areas and collect in one place to establish a new gender equality authority. It may sound pretty good in itself. I don't suppose anyone's against gender equality here. But Statskontoret has already sawed the proposal along with the ankles. And if you go into the government website and read a little about the background of this authority and what information it is expected to have, you will soon realize that the government is once again sailing under a false flag. One tries to suggest that it should be an authority for gender equality, but it really seems to be mostly a disguised feminist women's authority, even if one could never call it that. And just the fact that a Ph.D. in pseudoscience, I mean gender science, has been assigned to be responsible for the establishment of the agency gossips a little bit about what we can expect from it. Here, too, the Swedish Democrats are different from the present and former governments. When we propose measures to improve the conditions for nurses, for example, there are of course more women than men, since more women work in this important health profession. But even if it becomes a targeted initiative for a particular profession, it is not a targeted initiative for a particular gender alone. It doesn't matter to us whether the assistant nurse's name is Ida or Calle. She and he will share the benefits. The same is true in school, where there may actually be more boys than girls who need extra support. The same is true when we do everything we can to combat violence, combat crime and make our streets safe. Then it's for everyone, not just for some. The only people who should feel insecure in Sweden's democrats' Sweden are those who intend to commit crimes. They should feel very insecure in their work. This, Madam President, is a policy not only for equality but also for equality – for all Swedish citizens. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-332	Madam President, I would like This report deals with the classification of areas of expenditure. I can give you a little picture of the context. The state budget is divided into 27 areas of expenditure. This means that each state expenditure is assigned to one of these 27 areas of expenditure when the government presents the budget bill. The various areas of expenditure, or the various parts of the state budget, are then dealt with in the relevant specialist committee. For example, the Constitutional Committee examines every autumn the draft budget for Category 1 Kingdom Board, which contains appropriations for the Royal Court, the Riksdag, the Government and some other central authorities. It is therefore important exactly what is included in the respective expenditure area, and it is regulated by rules that can be derived from the parliamentary order. According to a supplementary provision to the Parliamentary Order, decisions on the purposes and activities to be included in a expenditure area shall be made in connection with decisions relating to the spring financial proposal. If the government wishes to move an expenditure from one area of expenditure to another area of expenditure, it must make proposals on this in connection with the spring economic bill. These amendments are then discussed by the Constitutional Committee. That is exactly what has happened now. In the Spring Bill, the Government has proposed changes to the distribution of purposes and activities in areas of expenditure. The proposed amendments have been prepared by the Constitutional Committee, which proposes that the Government's proposal be approved. This does not in itself mean that all the parties in the committee are behind the economic policy pursued by the government. On the other hand, it is usually the case that the parties do not reserve for changes in the distribution of purposes and activities in areas of expenditure, but see it more as an outflow of the budgetary policy prepared in the specialist committees. If we see any change in the distribution of tasks and activities by areas of expenditure as a matter of fact in the KU, we could have a debate in committee on any policy area which is brought up to date by moving a grant from one area of expenditure to another, and perhaps it is not the role of the Constitutional Committee – or the area of expertise – to have views on all aspects of economic policy. That is why it is more usual to make political statements in the form of specific opinions to the report, which states that the members of the KU from different parties are, of course, behind the proposals put forward by the party colleges in the specialist committees. However, one chooses not to reserve itself because the preparation of the question in the KU is more of a technical nature. For this reason, there is a special opinion from the Moderates, the Centre Party and the Christian Democrats in the KU stating that we are not in principle behind the creation of the new Equality Authority, whose establishment is causing some changes in the distribution of purposes and activities in spending areas. However, we do not reserve ourselves because we see what the committee is now preparing more as a technical issue. The Swedish Democrats have chosen instead to make a reservation in one respect in the report. We also heard arguments on the subject that were close to the hearts of the Swedish Democrats. I do not intend to go into any polemics on either this or any other issue, but I agree with what has been the role of the KU in this context, namely to look formally at the issues of division. Then there is no other proposal on my part or on the part of the committee but to support the proposal put forward by the government. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-340	Madam President, I would like Today, 7 June, it is a historic day, a day of joy for those of us who are working on fiscal policy. Today, our Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson is in the OECD in Paris and is signing an agreement for our country on a new tax treaty system. This will affect many of the forthcoming decisions that we will take in this House on tax agreements. The fight against tax evasion internationally must continue tirelessly. Madam President, I would like Today, we are dealing with the Accounting of Tax Expenditures for 2017. Déjà vu is French for already seen. In short, this means that a situation or vision feels noticeably familiar. That is the case today, déjà vu. The opposition has managed to agree on a statement on impact assessment and evaluation. A few weeks ago, we discussed the Swedish National Audit Office's report on complex tax systems. They looked at regulatory simplifications for seven years. It was five years of bourgeois rule and two years of S- and MP government. Despite the fact that the Swedish National Audit Office's report was clearly valid for the seven years, the bourgeois and Swedish democrats managed to get an announcement. From the perspective of opposition work and from the point of view of dramaturgy it is well done, but in fact it is very strange. Magdalena Andersson will take responsibility for Anders Borg's missing. Madam President, I would like Today, too, the case contains a notice which is not really related to the case. These constant and unprecise demands for something more are a variant of what is called negative announcements in the KU. The bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats have misunderstood what the matter of accounting for tax expenditure is. I read on the inside: tax expenditure is essentially aid that arises from special rules in tax legislation. In order to determine whether this is a tax expense and the amount it amounts to, there must be a reference standard for the tax system. It is in the discrepancy between the standard of comparison and the tax rules that tax expenditure arises. Over the years, the report has developed towards increasing precision on the basis of its purpose, to clarify the state aid to companies and households represented by tax expenditure so that it can be tested in the same way as the appropriations on the expenditure side of the state budget. That is what the matter is about. Madam President, I would like We also have a tax round on this issue. An important part of economic policy and the Swedish model is fiscal policy. Tax policy is primarily intended to finance the public sector and other public expenditure. In addition, the tax system will create security and cohesion in society. It will contribute to sustainable development, high employment and fair distribution of wealth and an environmentally and socially sustainable society. When we took over government power, we inherited a large deficit in public finances, while it was high unemployment and the gaps increased. It was the legacy of the bourgeois government. Their main idea was to reduce taxes no matter what social problem they would face. I feel like it's déjà vu. Now we've changed direction. Away from tax cuts to more in work. Away from increased gaps to greater equality and equality. Away from messing with our pensioners to starting to phase out pensioner's tax. Away from passivity in climate and environmental issues to trying to do something about the imminent climate and environmental crisis. Madam President, I would like We have removed inefficient tax exemptions such as the reduced social security contributions for young people. It has become contrary to bourgeois predictions that youth unemployment would increase. We have been criticised that our tax policy would cause people to stop working and reduce their working hours. That's not what it looks like. Madam President, I would like We've raised some taxes to get the state budget in order. We have now again received surpluses in public finances following Anders Borg's unfunded tax cuts that squandered Pär Nuder's surplus. Indeed, we Social Democrats have also reduced taxes. We should have reduced the pensioner's tax already in 2015, but that tax cut the Swedish democrats blew the country's pensioners on. We came back and took the first step in 2016, and we will take the second step in 2017 to start closing the gap between those who work and old-age pensioners. In 2018, the Government will also reduce the tax for everyone with sickness and activity benefits. The already reduced social security contributions for individual traders hiring a first person, i.e. growing aid, are extended to limited liability companies and partnerships. Finally, we will also reduce VAT on nature guides. For us Social Democrats, taxes are not an objective but a means. We are not locked up at one tax or another but open to discussion. But it is on condition that we can maintain general welfare. We will ensure that old moms receive care without having to pay for it and that childcare facilities are not paid on a private basis, as is done in the majority of Europe. With these principles, we are open to discussing future tax systems. As far as taxes are concerned, we also believe that it is reasonable to distribute money between people and generations. The growing gaps, which have been pointed out by LO in particular, need to be corrected in various ways. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying the following. Sweden should be the country of opportunity for all and eth country where we stick together. The choice is between together and alone, and then we choose Social Democrats together. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-356	Madam President, I would like The tax system should be transparent, easy to understand and as simple as possible. At the same time, it should be legal and logical. The fact that the tax system is both transparent and legitimate and relevant are important cornerstones of Swedish social construction. Tax payers must be able to see and understand how taxes are levied and how much you pay in taxes. One must be able to understand why different taxes are constructed in the way they are in order for the tax system to have the legitimacy necessary for people to accept to pay taxes. The Swedish Democrats have taken a position on a variety of tax proposals in order to facilitate entrepreneurship, growth, work and Swedish ownership of the Swedish business community. We are critical of the relatively high taxes levied on labour. Four out of five new jobs are created in growing small businesses, and the Swedish Democrats have proposed a series of clear improvements for small businesses as part of stimulating employment. The Swedish Democrats have proposed tax incentives for small businesses, specifically on work. We have proposed the complete abolition of the general salary levy for all companies with up to nine employees. This would correspond to a tax relief of SEK 265,500 per year for a small business. This means that a total of 300 000 small businesses would be exempt from the general wage charge. Companies with a higher total wage sum pay a general wage contribution only on those parts that exceed the ceiling amount. In this way, we are not only creating strong incentives for new entrants, but also avoiding the threshold effects that might otherwise arise when companies grow from micro- to small enterprises and on to medium-sized enterprises. Together with the greatly alleviated sickness pay liability for smaller companies, this can be assumed to offer very positive opportunities for the smallest companies to grow larger and employ more. We have also proposed that, together with other parties, we should have an investigation carried out into a model that lowers the income tax on lower earnings. We have also had the ambition to eliminate the tax gap between pension income and service income. We have been doing this ever since we entered the Riksdag in 2010. We regard retirement as deferred pay. There is neither logic nor fairness in the fact that pensioners should pay a higher tax than ordinary wage earners to the extent that they do today. We have therefore proposed that the tax be reduced in the long term to that applicable to ordinary wage earners. We have taken a stand against the introduction of air tax, because it will be a difficult blow to Swedish domestic aviation. It would also have disproportionately negative effects on the Swedish economy compared to the possible marginal environmental benefit. We have also taken a stand against the introduction of mileage taxes because we believe that this can be a difficult blow for many Swedish hauliers as a result of the sharp increase in the tax burden on traffic-specific taxes. The chemical tax has a wide range of referrals that have been rejected. They feel that it will be too costly and increase the administrative burden on both companies and authorities. The proposal also reduces the conditions for competitive industrial development in Sweden. It will have a negative impact on the retail sector and lead to a reduction in the number of jobs and the relocation of activities abroad. For these reasons, we took a stand against the introduction of this tax. So to the government's letter, Accounting for Taxes for 2017. The deviations from generally regulated taxation that are what we call tax expenditure are important to describe. The reason for this is that any system of tax expenditure and sanctions means that someone loses and someone else benefits from the measure. The purpose of each such measure should be described and explained in order to achieve the objective of creating a relevant, transparent and comprehensible tax system. The government writes in its accounting: a key question is, therefore, whether a tax expense can be considered to improve socio-economic efficiency and thus welfare. A common simplification is that a measure is supposed to lead to increased welfare if the benefits for those who benefit from a change of rules can compensate for the losses of those who lose from it. ..................................................... Then comes a discussion of how difficult it is to define who loses or wins from a specific action. For this reason, the Government considers that it is not practically possible to make a quantitative assessment of the contribution of a tax expense to improved socio-economic efficiency. Thus, we can conclude that the government believes that it is not important to show how tax expenditure and tax sanctions affect socio-economic efficiency or that the government does not know how such a report can be made. It is surprising that the Swedish government is unable to describe the socio-economic effects of important components of its own tax policy. This is verified by the fact that in the Government's letter there is only one account, and a relatively thin one, of an individual tax expenditure: reduced VAT on food. We believe that it is essential that the socio-economic consequences of tax expenditure and sanctions should be given greater scope than is currently the case. This would make it easier for individuals who wish to familiarise themselves with various aspects of our tax system. It would also contribute to a more serious discussion about the existence or otherwise of the various tax expenditures. As a result, it is of central importance for the development of the tax system. The government should therefore develop its capacity and willingness to improve the important socio-economic analysis in its annual accounting of tax expenditure. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal under paragraph 1 and reservation 2 under paragraph 2.
i-S2qMzo8XttkE23j7C1429o	Mr President, I would like to I would like to express my support for reservation No 1. A tax expense is a deviation from the norm of the tax system. It is therefore to be regarded as aid, compared with the overall structure of the regulatory framework. That is why it is also important that we look at these in the same way as we examine and debate expenditure that we fund directly with tax money. The Swedish Democrats have misunderstood this order. In their reservation, they want direct support to the labour market area to be included. However, these are issues that are being debated in another committee area and, of course, even when the budget is being discussed in this House. One of the single largest tax expenditures is the areas with reduced VAT. Normal VAT is 25%, but food has 12% and some other areas 6%. It is obviously important to see what the consequences of reductions are from different perspectives, not least in terms of distribution policy. We note that several of the bourgeois parties have advocated increased VAT in various forms. Moderates have wanted to raise VAT on food from 12% to 13%, which would increase costs for households and businesses by around 3 billion a year. At the same time, there would be a smaller tax expense for the state. The Government's letter gives a little account of the distributional effects of the reduced food VAT. In this context, it would be desirable to analyse the extent to which increased VAT would be levied in whole or in part on consumers. When VAT was previously reduced for restaurants, it had a positive employment effect. However, we saw that initially reduced prices went up fairly quickly, so the impact on the end customer was less. The Christian Democrats have proposed that all VAT levels should be increased by 1 percentage point. This would increase costs by 16 – 17 billion. The Christian Democrats are not shy in every context. In such sharp increases as those of the Christian Democrats, it becomes even more important to see what the consequences would be. Mr President, I would like to The travel allowance is also one of the major tax expenditures. For 2017, it is estimated at 5.6 billion, and it is a deduction that favours motorism in the Mälardal region in particular. In the Rural Committee, all parties agreed that this would be reviewed and re-designed in order to achieve a more accurate design. There are similar systems in several of our neighbouring countries, where the car does not benefit in the same way as in today's Sweden compared to other modes of transport. It was gratifying that several parties agreed on this both in the Rural Committee and in the Environmental Objectives Committee. In dealing with this in committee, the alliance parties and the Swedish Democrats formed a majority that forthcoming letters on tax expenditure should fully analyse the effectiveness and employment impact of individual tax expenditure. It is an unnecessary announcement, as that is what is being done today. At the same time, it ignores the fact that there is more consideration to be taken than strictly employment. Distribution policy, environment and climate and housing are all important issues. But this is something you choose to ignore when you want to focus entirely and only on employment effects. The latest news on the subject during the year is the tonnage tax. It was a question that nothing happened to for a very many years, but now this has finally come into place. It benefits Swedish shipping, environmentally friendly transport and the competitiveness of industry at once, which is very good. The crop support is also introduced. It is a reduction in the employer's contribution for public limited liability companies which are to hire their first person. The biggest threshold is to hire the very first person. That we can make things easier is therefore very good. VAT is also reduced for repair services and nature guides. This is a very good example of green tax exchange. We are increasing the tax on environmentally harmful things like aviation and reducing it instead to work. There will be win-win of such reforms. Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of reservation No 1.
i-MZC2c2CjDcrXFWFRXoGFaD	Mr President, I would like to We now have on the table the Tax Committee's report No 32, Accounting for Tax Expenditure 2017. Accounting for tax expenditure began with the introduction of a new budgetary process in the mid-1990s. Since 1996, in order to make the aid to households and businesses in the form of tax expenditure more visible, the Government has provided a special account of these expenditures annually. Accounting is now mandatory. Since 2008, tax expenditure has been reported in a separate letter referred to for consideration in the Tax Committee. This letter may appear as a technical review of the taxes we will be paying in a coming year. But this letter is much more important than that. Through the letter, the Government has the opportunity to present an analysis of the tax changes proposed with a view to increasing both legitimacy and transparency as well as understanding of the taxes levied. It is an opportunity for the government to contribute to an informed discussion and debate among the public, journalists, various decision-makers and others. Mr President, I would like to The need for transparency and transparency in public finances cannot be stressed enough. It's supposed to be a keyword. Well-founded, relevant and easily accessible information is central in all policy areas, especially in the tax area. The importance of good accounting to the Riksdag of tax expenditure has also been highlighted in several reviews by both the Swedish National Audit Office and the Swedish Financial Policy Council, which also commented on the principles for accounting for tax expenditure. The Swedish National Audit Office has published a report, Regeri gen's tax expense report – as the Swedish Parliament wants it? , with number 12. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that, on the other hand, the accounting of new tax expenditure does not meet the specific accounting requirements set by the Swedish National Audit Office, taking into account the guidelines adopted by Parliament for fiscal policy. The requirement is for the government to justify why a measure involving tax expenditure should be introduced. It is therefore not clear why the government deviates from the principle of general tax rules expressed in the guidelines for fiscal policy. This report will be examined by the Committee on Taxation later in the year and will also be discussed in this House. I'm not saying anything more about this right now. In this year's tax expense letter, the government again chooses to refrain from fully analysing and reporting the socio-economic effects and impact on employment of the tax policy that now governs Sweden. A government should, according to the best available knowledge and conventions, account for such effects of its policies. The declared purpose of the Riksdag with the accounting of tax expenditure is to enable tax expenditure to be examined in the same way as expenditure on appropriations. It should therefore be possible to quantify the costs of the exemptions in the tax system. Mr President, I would like to The government is carrying out inadequate analyses, and as a result, the report on tax expenditure that is submitted lacks any light on the socio-economic impact. The most remarkable thing, however, is that the employment impact is lacking in a situation where the government implements the highest tax increases in decades. Then it is more reasonable than ever with deeper analysis of the consequences. As self-evident as the fact that reduced taxes must be analysed, it is that increased taxes must also be analysed. Among other things, the Institute of Economic Affairs has clearly pointed out that increased marginal taxes on certain groups may reduce labour supply, which may ultimately lead to an overestimation of the public-financial impact of the measures. The Public Employment Service has pointed out the unfortunate fact that the government, in its income tax memos, lacks discussion and consideration of the impact on labour market development that the proposed tax changes will of course lead to. Mr President, I would like to The Tax Committee notes that a wide range of referrals are critical of the impact of government policies on jobs and considers that the government underestimates the negative employment effects. The socio-economic effects also mean that society's resources are used in a way that may not always be optimal. After all, it is a question of creating the best possible impact of the reforms that are being carried out in order to achieve the highest return to welfare. The employment impact is a very significant part of such a necessary development. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, which is one of the world's most developed democracies, it should be easy for citizens to review the government. It should be available to researchers, authorities and professional assessors to review the impact of policies. It is essential that the government presents, in accordance with the best available facts and research, assessments of the policies pursued. New taxes are now being introduced, and existing taxes are being increased, but it is only after a number of years that we can see the real effects of tax changes. For the government and also for us in the Riksdag, an analysis of tax changes is crucial to enable a priority between different expenditures. This is achieved only when a change in tax expenditure is followed by a broad and in-depth analysis based to the greatest extent possible on robust empirical evidence. Mr President, I would like to Overall, it can be noted that the Government's letter Accounting for Tax Expenditure 2017 gives an extremely vague and limited picture of tax expenditure and their socio-economic impact. The government should explain in future letters the reasons for the changes that are being made. The Center Party and the other alliance parties have exercised the view that tax expenditure-accounting letters should analyse the socio-economic efficiency and employment impact of individual tax expenditures in order to increase the transparency and knowledge of the effects of the policies pursued. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has endorsed the motion in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy's report 32.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-400	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating tax expenditure – what a strange word in this context. Tax expenditure is actually something that households and businesses have, and this expenditure is not small. Tax expenditure on households is the single largest expenditure of households. Since the government took office, the tax burden has only increased. Taxes have been increased by 40 billion on jobs and growth – reduced ROT, reduced RUT, more paying government income tax and strong tax increases on fuel, to name a few. But the government is not content with that, but has far-reaching plans for even more and higher taxes. It is a question of bank tax, disguised as a resolution fee, a huge increase in taxes for small businesses and even more ordinary wage earners who will pay government income tax as if they were high-income earners, and despite the government's promises not to increase income tax for ordinary people. Added to this are all the taxes that affect us who live by road and not by the subway: further increases in taxes on petrol and diesel, perhaps a kilometre tax and definitely a flight tax. Talk about big tax expenses for households and businesses! However, Mr President, when we talk today about tax expenditure, it is another definition of tax expenditure. This is about the state's perspective, about the lack of taxes. In general, we have very high taxes in this country. But sometimes they are reduced, such as the reduced VAT on food. Then it's seen as an expense to the state. These tax expenditures on the state are accounted for each year by the government, and that is the accounting that we are debating here today. There are two main objectives of this letter. One is to make visible the so-called support for businesses and households on the revenue side of the budget. The second aim is to describe the degree of consistency of tax rules. The standard of comparison is based, as in previous years, on uniform taxation. This means that taxation within each tax category should in principle be uniform and without exception. In previous statements in the examination of this letter, the Committee on Taxation has pointed out that, in addition to being able to develop into a more active tool in budgetary work, it is useful to trace deviations from the major tax reform in 1991, the principles of which still apply. Like my colleague Per Åsling, the Swedish National Audit Office has recently examined the government's report on tax expenditure and found reasons to criticise the government in several respects. In some cases there are no forecasts of the expected amount of tax expenditure. In other cases, there is no information on how the forecasts change over time. In addition, in the vast majority of cases, tax expenditure is not included in the profit and loss account, which makes it difficult for the Riksdag to see how it contributes to the objectives of the respective expenditure area. In its audit, the Swedish National Audit Office stresses the importance of developing the accounting of tax expenditure, so that they can be examined in the same way as expenditure on appropriations. What is not covered by the Swedish National Audit Office's review, however, is the in-depth socio-economic analysis, that is, part two of this letter. In it, the government selects one or two tax expenditures each year, which are analysed in particular on the basis of socio-economic efficiency, the guidelines for fiscal policy and gender equality. It is this report that we are looking at when we ask for a deeper analysis from the majority. The committee has noted that a wide range of referrals are critical of the impact of government policies on jobs and considers that the government underestimates the negative employment effects. Socio-economic efficiency means that society's resources are used as efficiently as possible. In the analysis of socio-economic efficiency, employment effects are a very important element. One might think that a government with a job goal should be interested in employment effects. But the government's rhetoric about jobs is not at all consistent with the policies that are actually being pursued, let alone with the reports that are being submitted to Parliament and thus to the people. Mr President, I would like to Transparency and openness are fundamental elements of our democracy. Access to relevant information is a prerequisite for democratic scrutiny of the policies being pursued. As the current government took office, this transparency has been reduced and the effects of its own policies are not fully reported. The committee's majority calls for a broader analysis of tax expenditure, with an account of the socio-economic efficiency and employment impact of individual tax expenditure. Government policy must be able to withstand such scrutiny. When the majority of the committee now demands a more comprehensive analysis based on employment effects, the government parties say that it cannot be done and that we have misunderstood, even though the government's own letter shows that employment is precisely one of the factors which, according to economic theory, is important to measure in an analysis of socio-economic efficiency. I have every respect for the fact that the exact effects cannot always be calculated. But the ambitions must be there. What I miss is the reasoning about employment and a clear focus on jobs. Unfortunately, however, this report is not the only one missing; it goes like a red line throughout politics. And it becomes a benefit line instead of a work line. I therefore support the proposal in the report.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-416	Mr President, I would like to It is always fun to debate economics and fiscal policy with Maria Malmer Stenergard. We can say that Sweden is doing well. Today we have the highest employment rate in the European Union. Since the turn of the government, 200 000 more people have been given a job. Youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. At the same time, the proportion that depends on our insurance systems is falling to the lowest level in 30 years. So things are going well in the Swedish economy. Based on this, the parties have formulated their spring movements and so on. The Moderates then propose tax reductions of a total of SEK 26 billion in their spring exercise. You Moderates say in your rhetoric that those who earn less will receive more. But you propose that the tax be reduced most for those with the highest income. Why don't you tell me you're suggesting that the tax be reduced more for those who earn the most?
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-420	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Jörgen Hellman for the question, which perhaps touches a matter in a budget debate rather than a question of the government's presentation of tax expenditure. This is therefore a report on socio-economic efficiency, on which the committee has its views. In an analysis of the socio-economic efficiency of a given tax expenditure, the government's own letter mentions a number of indicators based on economic theory on how a tax expenditure can improve socio-economic efficiency. There is particular emphasis on employment. I am pleased that Jörgen Hellman is highlighting this aspect, because it is an important aspect. Then it is not the government's policy that drives the boom, but the boom. And it is gratifying that Sweden is doing well. At the same time, however, we are seeing unemployment rising again. However, there is a greater risk that it is an effect of government policy. Back to tax expenditure: As the government itself points out in its letter, employment is an incredibly important part of the report, whether it is made on the basis of socio-economic efficiency, on the basis of the objectives of tax policy or on the basis of gender equality. If one claims to have a job goal, why has the government not endeavoured to make this statement? That's my question to Jörgen Hellman. In response to the question of tax reductions, the claim is not correct. We're cutting income taxes by 22 billion. We do so in a fully funded budget, and we do so with the absolute emphasis on those who make absolutely the least money.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-427	Mr President, I would like to You must, of course, finance the 26 billion in tax cuts in your draft budget. Billion-dollar costs are passed on to municipalities, and today they need more resources and not less. I am therefore very interested in Maria Malmer Stenergards's response to what reasonable cuts you will make in healthcare, school and care to finance your tax cuts of 26 billion.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-429	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Jörgen Hellman has read the Moderates' budget motion. But I would have liked him to have read it a little more carefully. Then it turns out that we invest more in welfare than the government does in its budget bill. For us, jobs are crucial if we are to make ends meet and if we are to finance welfare in the future. When we have reduced taxes, the resources for welfare have also increased. It is regrettable that the government parties cannot see that connection and believe that one should be able to burden the people with any amount of taxation without affecting their willingness to work. We are convinced that jobs are a prerequisite for meeting the challenges of the future. Unlike government policy, however, we are not merely formulating a beautiful objective which we then abdicate from following up. We have clear goals. We want to start by halving the employment gap between native and foreign born, because that is a big difference that we cannot afford. We want to create the conditions for 500 000 new jobs. These are ambitious objectives, but we intend to achieve them, and then they must also permeate our policies and our analysis. That's what we think. The government claims to want the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. No serious judge believes that this goal will be achieved. The government's big job investment, the trainee jobs, had a goal of 32,000 new posts. There were, years later, 474 of them. This shows that it is not good enough to just set goals– you also have to follow them up. The objectives must permeate politics, and that is what we are debating in this letter today. When the government analyses the relationship between taxes and the national economy, it is very strange that the employment effects do not fit, as in this letter.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-436	Mr President, I would like to With today's decision, Sweden takes up the so-called Nairobi Convention, which regulates the responsibility of States Parties to notify and label the presence of wrecks and imposes requirements on the owners of ships to be removed before causing damage to the environment and the coast, hinders the accessibility of other shipping and creates disadvantages for tourism and other economic activities related to Sweden's waterways and coasts. The fact that it is being legislated in this area gives us a guarantee that the wrecks will be removed, that it is the owner who is in all cases responsible for the removal of wrecks and that the largest ships will also be able to demonstrate that there is liability insurance for this. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party welcomes access to the 2007 International Convention on the Removal of Wrath. Ships that are sinking and becoming lying are a long-term environmental hazard, as there may be dangerous substances on board, such as oils and fuels, which cause damage to the coast and the marine environment. It is mentioned in the report and also in the report on tonnage, in this case the vessel, which is a way of calculating the gross volume of a vessel, that is, how much is overall housed in a ship. All ships with a gross tonnage of 300 or more must be insured in such a way that a tow, when required, can be replaced. It is then a question of very large boats, and the question is how the Swedish Maritime Administration, which becomes the responsible authority, should handle uninsured boats that have a tonnage below 300 and whose owners do not have insurance and can thus escape responsibility for financing the salvage. When I have prepared this, I have studied the tonnage of the Swedish merchant fleet, and of the 990 vessels that were registered in 2012 – there are probably fewer now – most had a gross tonnage below 100. In Denmark, which has also acceded to the Nairobi Convention, liability insurance is required for ships between 20 and 300, so there is reason to come back and pursue this issue in other contexts in order to bring about a regime in which more ships are subject to the requirement of liability insurance. The more we study the proposal, the more questions we ask ourselves. Unfortunately, the time is short, and perhaps I am now in deep water. Even recreational craft can be large, but rarely they are so large that they have a pregnancy of 300 or more– then it is more a passenger ferry we are talking about. However, with a range of 20 - 300, the majority of the Swedish merchant fleet is covered, and so perhaps we should also come back with proposals to extend the liability insurance requirement. We'll have to write a new motion about that. With Sweden now taking a holistic approach to commercial shipping, the Center Party wishes to draw attention to the major problem that is the 17 000 wrecks that exist along Sweden's coasts and the lack of instruments that would make us overcome at least the 300 that the Swedish Maritime Administration considers to be directly hazardous to the environment. There is no mention of this in the Government's proposal, nor is there any mention of the great environmental danger that many recreational ship owners simply abandon their boat and leave it behind. In the same way that we are trying to get hold of owners of abandoned cars and deal with the so-called vehicle goalkeepers, the problems of recreational craft should be addressed, and with our exercise we want to point to that activity. The register for recreational craft was already abolished in 1993, which has made it more difficult to find the owner of abandoned boats. The reintroduction of the register could be opposed to some form of producer responsibility for recreational craft in the EU. Both proposals are interesting and should be examined further. Mr President, I would like to Perhaps it is groundless to push the issue of incorporating it into this particular legislation, but we want to get the government to get to the bottom of the issue, which is a potential and acute environmental hazard that affects all our waters – not only shipping routes but also inland waterways, watercourses and marinas throughout Sweden. This also concerns the investigator in his report, and he proposes that planned legislation on littering recreational craft be coordinated with the provisions of the wreck convention. However, the government has chosen not to go further, something to which we in the Center Party are critical. That is why I support our reservation.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-450	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the report by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs. The government delivers policies that create order, not only in the Swedish economy but also in the management of ship wrecks in our waters. Vessels that run on the ground pose a risk of damage to other property and have negative environmental effects. For example, a lying vessel may pose a risk of collision, and the leakage of dangerous substances may damage the surrounding environment, hinder fishing and inhibit tourism in the area. It is therefore important to clarify the responsibility for the removal of wrecks and, not least, to allow for effective means of intervention when a ship is collapsing. Proposed legislative changes to the bill are those deemed appropriate in relation to our approval of the Nairobi Convention 2007 on the removal of wrecks. The Convention strengthens the powers to intervene against wrecks of ships that pose a danger to maritime traffic and the environment. The approval of the Nairobi Convention thus strengthens the protection of shipping and the environment. The amendment obliges the owner of the ship to remove a wreck which constitutes a danger to shipping or the environment. The shipowner will also be responsible for the costs incurred by the measures. In the case of large ships, the owner will also be obliged to have liability insurance to cover his liability. The Swedish Maritime Administration's task here is to label wrecks that are deemed to pose a danger. If necessary, the Swedish Maritime Administration can intervene directly and take action at the expense of the shipowner. The bill is supported by almost all parties in the committee. Only the Center Party, in a motion, is asking for further action. Here it is important to point out, as I have already done in my speech, Mr President, that the proposals for legislative amendments to the bill are those deemed relevant and appropriate with the approval of the Nairobi Convention. Changes outside the scope of the Convention can be discussed in the future in the context of other relevant legislative work. I demand approval of the government proposal.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-458	Mr President, I would like to This will be a very short change of line. What puzzles me a little when I study the preparatory work on this is that I come to the conclusion that of the Swedish merchant fleet about 1 000 ships, 990 are not covered by the requirement for liability insurance. Perhaps a friend of order should reflect on how it is that we are introducing legislation based on a convention at such a low level that the majority of Swedish merchant ships are not covered by the requirement of liability insurance. There is an obvious risk that a shipowner who falls into insolvency or who does not want to take responsibility for his property when it has ended up in the Göta river, for example, will not take this responsibility because there is no money. We have a problem as we see in the case of vehicle goalkeepers, where we have moved on with legislation to get to rogue people who exploit other people in this way. Perhaps we are heading for a similar situation in shipping. It would be interesting to hear Mr Koliev reflect a little on these issues.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-461	Mr President, I would like to Very briefly: then we have every reason in the world to come back to the question.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-462	Mr President, I would like to So Faradj Koliev is proposing some kind of evaluation of the law? Sounds good. Then perhaps we have the opportunity to come back with this too. There are also reflections on the part of the investigators that they want to return to the issue of recreational craft. The investigator proposed that recreational craft should also be covered by the legislative changes resulting from the accession to the Nairobi Convention. Does Faradj Koliev have any comments on that?
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-464	Mr President, I would like to No, I have no comments except those deemed relevant. The relevant legislative changes are included in the bill. If there are more issues that are not directly related to the Convention but are nevertheless interesting and important to look at, we have every reason to come back to the issues.
i-3JN1yT5w6xhFuXMpPLSJjh	Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs in its report 2006/ 17:CU18. This week is the New York Maritime Conference, so it is a good thing that we have an issue today which is specifically about water, namely the issue of removing wrecks that are a danger to maritime safety or the environment. It is noticeable that it is a maritime conference, not least because the state media are loyally bringing out the message that the government wants to send to the Swedish people without critical counter-questions or analyses – in relation to the previous issue that the Constitutional Committee had up here about free radio. Last week, we had a briefing here in Parliament for the maritime conference that is taking place. Then a fellow Member of Parliament asked me a question to the representative of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs if Sweden will highlight the product that may most affect the sea – microplastics from car tires. Unfortunately, the answer was no, but instead the government is pushing the question of plastic bags. In the question of saving the oceans from litter and pollution, there is obviously no difference of opinion in the Swedish parliament, just as the previous speaker from the Social Democrats said. Here we are in complete agreement. On the other hand, it is important that we do not pursue any kind of symbolic policy, but that we really deal with the social problems that exist. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a coherent water policy in the future. The issue concerns several committees, including the Civil Committee, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on the Environment, Agriculture and the Committee on Industry. Here we have to work with guttering instead of guttering, and I can promise both the government, the parliament and the Swedish people that we will also be pushing the government ahead of us in this matter. On the question of the removal of shipwrecks, however, we Moderates fully agree with the Government, not least because it was the Alliance that set up the investigation that forms the basis for today's decision in 2013. On 18 November 2013, an investigator was assigned to prepare the basis for the assessment of Sweden's accession to the Nairobi Convention, and to propose the necessary constitutional changes or deemed appropriate in connection with access. The assignment was reported in the Ministry memo Removal of wrecks(Ds 2015:16). It is important that shipowners are obliged to remove wrecks that pose a danger to maritime safety and the environment. We can also note that most, or perhaps all, referrals were in favour of the Government's proposal, which came from the investigation set up by the Alliance. I therefore call for approval of the Government's proposal, but I assume that the Government will take the issue of water more seriously and adopt a coherent policy in this area.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-472	Mr President, I would like to We will now debate the government's letter, that is, the response to the Swedish National Audit Office's 2016 report:21 on preparatory and oriented education. The Swedish National Audit Office points to shortcomings in the monitoring and evaluation of the labour market policy measure called preparatory and oriented training. Their recommendations are, in short, that the Swedish Public Employment Service's analyses in procurement should also include financial consequences of the choices made by the authority, that the Swedish Public Employment Service stresses the importance of systematic monitoring of different levels within the agency and that the preparatory and oriented trainings are analysed. Employment services should also review, improve and systematise their documentation. Finally, the Public Employment Service should work more continuously to assess results and evaluate the impact of participation in this measure. The Government agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office's problem picture and also with their recommendations to the Swedish Public Employment Service. The Government also assesses that the report shows good opportunities for development in terms of both governance and conditions for the use and follow-up of this type of interventions. It is considered important that the Swedish Public Employment Service really takes into account and exploits the efficiency potential identified by the Swedish National Audit Office. We can also note that the Swedish National Audit Office has initiated a further review of preparatory and oriented education. But this time the focus is on the impact and results of the efforts and whether they are carried out effectively. Mr President, I would like to It is a matter of fact that today's debate on the review is only about monitoring and evaluation and not about the results of the actions. There will be a new report on this, and then we will have to come back here in Parliament and in committee on it. So far, Mr President, we fully agree in committee. We agree with this, and we would also like to stress to the government that it really does strive to make a better follow-up. So we are in complete agreement on this. Then we differ, and that is why the government parties and the Left Party have a joint reservation No 1, which I also call for. The Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the other bourgeois parties have apparently agreed that resources in labour market policy should be redistributed. As an example, the report states that it wants to replace preparatory and orientation training with extended RUT deductions and reduced costs of hiring. I can really ask myself whether this is part of the subject that we are going to debate in this House. You go into economic policy and you start talking about redistribution. The Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and other bourgeois parties talk about things that are not agreed between the parties. This review is not about the outcome of the operation, and we agree on that. There is such a review under way, and we will come back to it as I said. But you are clearly clear on the outcome and have the answers even before the next review is completed. That is why you say: Now we are going to redistribute, and preferably we are going to do so by extending the RUT deductions or reducing the cost of hiring. It's a little strange, I think. We from the government parties and the Left party bounced to when we could read this in your reservation, for which you now have the majority. Mr President, I would like to It is strange that, on such a rather narrow issue as this national audit report, you indicate that it is perhaps better with minimum wages or increased mainly cleaning services. I do not know how you mean in your majority text. Mr President, I would like to For the sake of clarity, I would once again like to endorse our reservation No 1.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-482	Mr President, I would like to I have to admit that I have begun to lose track of the times we have stood in this House and had debates about the Employment Service and its governance. It could have been good and good if the origin had been various suggestions on how to face real and important societal problems. But let us be honest here with the fact that the reason why these debates come up, sometimes with the most odd headlines, is that the former government parties are frustrated that unemployment is falling when policy is re-directed in a different direction than in their time. They are very frustrated that the sluggish, laborious work of improving the governance of an authority such as they are grossly and actively, almost unprecedented in modern Swedish administrative history, is now being mismanaged in the right direction. That's why we get these ill-thought-out moves of all sorts around Arbetsförmedlingen. This is what the former bourgeois government parties in their eagerness to repress their old mistakes can actually agree on. It has its internal therapeutic points, especially when the Swedish Democrats, who are usually more interested in the political game than in facts and substance, choose to join in. That is the crucial context for understanding a little more of this debate. Well, the report itself deals with one of the Arbetsförmedlingen's actions, namely preparatory and oriented training, or rather the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the operation and the government's response to the review report submitted by the Swedish National Audit Office. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the governance of Arbetsförmedlingen under the new government has become more flexible. That's good and promising, most people would say. As you know, during the previous government there was a very strong bureaucracy and detailed management of the Employment Service. It is also an important explanation for the fact that the Swedish Public Employment Service's ability to meet the needs of both employers and job seekers has deteriorated and that the agency now has a long way to go to restore some confidence. The Swedish National Audit Office also notes that Arbetsförmedlingen can strengthen the analysis that forms the basis for what efforts are being procured instead of being offered by the agency itself. The Swedish National Audit Office welcomes the ongoing work within the agency since 2016 to develop a long-term strategy for when the agency will procure an operation. Here, too, it may be worth recalling what it was like in the past. The previous government's governance of Arbetsförmedlingen consisted, among other things, of creating a regime with compulsory procurement, a standing order that more and more should be procured without any thought on what it would mean for Arbetsförmedlingen's ability to function effectively as a comprehensive authority with an important social task. Furthermore, the Swedish National Audit Office has some criticism of the follow-up to the current operation. It is noted that it is difficult to measure the results of the procured services and that the level of ambition there could be increased, that it is important to have follow-up information and that there is a cost aspect in the assessments made regarding this operation versus other measures. Of course, these are points of view that deserve to be taken seriously. I myself would like to see a greater problematisation of the follow-up of this type of services. On the one hand, there are always costs associated with documentation and evaluations, and on the other hand there are difficulties in setting measurable targets. For example, how do you measure the value of a long-term unemployed applicant gaining significantly more confidence and getting closer to the labour market, even if he or she has not yet made progress in his or her job search or in a specific measure? These are things that should be taken into account in an improvement effort. It is a work that is already going on in Arbetsförmedlingen. What is interesting is that the government essentially agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office, as is evident from the letter we are discussing today. It is noted by the Government that there is an improvement potential and that work on these issues is already underway within the Public Employment Service. What, then, are we debating today? As I was at the beginning, it is rather about the right opposition being butt and bitter that things are going better in the labour market, and to shift the focus on the conversation, a number of old cane horses have been released here. The bourgeois accompanying motion, which the Swedish Democrats have chosen to follow, is therefore, in practice, critical of the fact that the disastrous detailed management of the Swedish Public Employment Service has been reduced. And what do you want to see instead? The report states that resources in labour market policy should be re-priorityed to actions that produce results, such as extending the RUT deduction and reducing the costs of hiring. In a way, it is amazing that the alternative to, for example, helping people who find it difficult to enter the labour market in various ways is to give greater subsidies to those better-off people who want help with home cleaning or pool cleaning, and to repeat the very expensive, broad and documented inefficient reductions in employers' contributions, I guess when I read in the report, because it was the former government's parade to reduce, as it was said, the cost of hiring – i.e., in practice, large subsidies to certain types of employers. It is remarkable – one could say admirable – that even in such a matter the bourgeois general solution of RUT deductions is successful. But that does not improve the debate on the subject itself. Mr President, I would like to I note that it is embarrassing to see the right's view of the Swedish labour market and labour market policy here. There are no ideas about investing in businesses or people and no ideas about how the Public Employment Service, an authority that has a really important social function, could work better; it's just to privatise, give more money to those who already have a lot and see what happens. Yes, that things happen then we know, but not so good things. In the midst of this miserable state of affairs, however, I am a little pleased that the previous government parties, now backed up by the Swedish Democrats, show time and again in this committee's debates that they do not want to relate to the real problems and the real conditions of the labour market. This makes clear some of the political choices in Sweden, and that is a good thing. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-497	Mr President, I would like to Earlier in the debate, we have heard two speeches from the left-wing side of Swedish politics. I am the first to understand the frustration of this type of debate from the left and from the support of government. We recently heard Ali Esbati more or less condemn criticism and views from the National Audit Office, from the Alliance and from the Swedish Democrats as irrelevant or superfluous. Those who watch must remember that this comes from a person who usually pays tribute to Cuba, Venezuela and other countries where we cannot express ourselves freely. Of course, many who are watching also ask themselves what the Social Democrats are doing together with a party that has representatives who celebrate dictatorships and who think that order is entirely appropriate. But the left side has more problems than that in this context, Mr President. Perhaps the biggest problem is the own ministers responsible for this – Magdalena Andersson and Ylva Johansson – who are not only satisfied but very satisfied with the current situation. It is as if the Left and the Government of Sweden have completely pulled the blinds down in their offices and do not want to look out in reality to see how it is with crime, insecurity and people who do not dare, want or can move in society in the way they want. We know that this is the consequence of an alienation that is deep and long-lasting and that in many places around Sweden is getting worse. The exclusion becomes deeper and more long-lasting when the work line is dismantled and the society becomes both harder and colder. This, Mr President, is exactly what we saw in the SCB survey that came a few days ago. The measurement shows that people who are far from the labour market and who have poor material conditions remain stuck in poor material conditions. What Raimo Pärssinen is trying to reject as something that doesn't matter or as something you shouldn't engage in is the very essence of what matters in people's lives and lives in Sweden. It is about the possibility of being able to change a bad or destructive situation – for oneself and for others – and instead be able to get into the work community and take more steps towards self-sufficiency and to be able to contribute to society. The government option and their allies have a somewhat remarkable tone here. Mr President, I would like to At the same time as more and more people are getting tougher in Sweden – which is described by a united committee as seeing how the division in the labour market is getting bigger and biting even harder in society – the Swedish economy is doing very well. This is gratifying. However, it is not surprising for us who were involved in creating the economic conditions that Sweden now has, with job tax deductions, reduced corporate tax, tighter rules in supply systems, strong investment in education and record renovation of the judiciary. When the Alliance carried out these reforms, there was, of course, an understanding and knowledge that they would have a good effect, and we are now seeing a clear outcome of this on the labour market. At the same time, however, we see that those people who are now in the most difficult situation are left without – or at least almost without – the strong support that they would need from politics in this situation. This is exactly as several expert authorities have pointed out: the division of labour markets is increasing. The audit by the Swedish National Audit Office is welcome. Actions that during the crisis year 2008 cost approximately SEK 500 million cost SEK 2 000 million during the boom in 2017. Maybe it's even the overheating 2017 – it remains to be seen afterwards. From the worst crisis that Sweden has gone through since the depression to one of our strongest booms in modern times, the costs of this system have quadrupled. Then, of course, questions are raised – just as is the case with the Swedish National Audit Office – about how these systems work. Is it effective? Are they used correctly? The answers to these questions are often unknown, as the government does not even want to follow up on the systems. They are no longer targeted, and there is no question of what will happen. It disappeared in 2015, when the government wanted to open up the Public Employment Service to a more flexible and dynamic way of using these systems. It may seem good to talk that way, but our responsible ministers, Ylva Johansson and Magdalena Andersson, unfortunately have a history and work experience from previous governments to take with them. It used different types to such measures to massively build up exclusion with the aim of concealing unemployment in the statistics. In order to achieve the objectives of open unemployment, different ways were chosen to use different tools and methods – not to achieve greater security or employability for people or to achieve more employment, but to fix the set statistical measures. During previous reigns, Raimo Pärssinen and his friends succeeded in ensuring that one in ten people in the labour force were early pensioners. This is why reports are coming that indicate that the systems may be opening up to this policy direction once again. It would be devastating for the people affected. Mr President, I would like to We, the Alliance, and the Moderates, support the proposals in the committee's report. We want to inculcate in the government parties the need for the government to do something in this area and really get the operation of these systems going. Whatever we hear, and no matter how much there is laughing at this moment in the Social Democratic bench lines in this House, it is that more and more people are living in an ever-deeper exclusion, increasingly further away from the labour market. Mr President, I would like to We can see that the cost of these very systems has quadrupled but that the results cannot be properly measured. At least the results are not wanted, because the government does not say at all what results to achieve. This makes it difficult to evaluate. In combination with this, a budget for Sweden has been presented relatively recently, in which the government itself states that the policies it pursues do not reduce politically-driven unemployment, i.e. balanced unemployment. There is not a single measure here for more jobs, except to hoist sails for a strong boom. This is not enough to deal with the very serious situation that we have in Sweden. That is why this debate should be taken more seriously than we have seen today from, among others, the Social Democrats.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-522	Mr President, I would like to You should always be able to question things you've taken for granted. I came to Sweden in 1986 and have for a long time taken for granted that I am quite good at speaking Swedish. But when I hear Niklas Wykman judge what I said, it sometimes seems like that's not the case-- maybe it's my fault. I said very clearly that I thought that the Swedish National Audit Office had made good and important findings and that the government and I myself agree with these. This interpreted Niklas Wykman as judging the findings of the Swedish National Audit Office. It doesn't mean that in my world. I suspect it may be that Niklas Wykman not only – as it seems – agrees with alternative facts but with a straight through alternative reality description. That's what it looks like when you hear the rest of what Niklas Wykman says. I would, however, like to know how Niklas Wykman sees youth unemployment as lower today than it was with the policy that Niklas Wykman represents. Statistics for other unemployment show the same thing. Niklas Wykman says that it could be a question of trying to hide unemployment and that the statistics should instead be visible in terms of employment and exclusion. The problem for Niklas Wykman is that, on the contrary, the statistics show that the employment rate is increasing and that exclusion, as you defined it yourself during your reign, is greatly reduced.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-528	Niklas Wykman talks about the strong support that people in exclusion should have. Is it true that lower wages are the strong support he wants to give them?
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-529	Mr President, I would like to Ali Esbati just told us that he came to Sweden in 1986. I can then inform you that I came to Sweden in 1981. I do not know what it adds to the debate, but that is the case anyway. Ali Esbati does as usual and distorts words and facts freely. We have a strong boom in Sweden, and I am pleased about that. I think the vast majority of people welcome it. I am pleased that the Left Party, the Green Party and the Social Democrats – those who are government alternatives – also welcome a stronger boom with more consumption, car travel, truck transport and so on. It is gratifying that the Green Party, for example, is behind this. On the other hand, there is a major statistical problem that people actually know that Ali Esbati is familiar with, namely that unemployment is divided into what is due to the economic situation and what is due to the policy pursued. With regard to what depends on the policy pursued, the budget supported by Ali Esbati states that the policy in no way reduces unemployment. It is in diagrams and text that equilibrium unemployment remains constant until 2018. This is the part of unemployment that the policies in place take care of. It is very clear in the budget supported by Ali Esbati, which his party has been piloted through in this House, that the policies pursued do not reduce unemployment at all. Ali Esbati has signed that.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-532	Mr President, I would like to I regret that I confused and upset Niklas Wykman with facts and statistics, but he may have to get used to that. To make it clear to people who are listening and who are not familiar with all the details, I would like to say that the facts are that unemployment has decreased and decreased, that exclusion, as defined by the bourgeois government, has decreased and that the employment rate has increased. I am not satisfied with this, but I think that there would be a need for many additional measures, both investments in activities and a great deal of training and other things, to further strengthen development and move further away from the policy that was very bad and that was taken under the previous government. But in order to handle this cognitive dissonance that occurs at Niklas Wykman, he must resort to things that cannot be seen in the statistics. He uses theories to try to interpret the statistics that go in the opposite direction than he would like. It is a recurring problem in Swedish modern history that when you pursue more of bourgeois politics, it is worse in the economy and in the labour market. The theory is that if you lower taxes, it will be better, and when it does not, the theory says that if you had reduced taxes even more, it would have gone better. So you can sum up this position that I know very well because I know the theories and the grips. But that does not change the fact that Niklas Wykman made a speech that was completely relieved of reality. Here we are today: with a different policy from that of Niklas Wykman's party, it is better, and I am pleased about that.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-536	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, liberating to hear how Ali Esbati not only makes himself an interpreter for his policy but also for our policy and explains what it means and stands for. It may free Ali Esbati a little from the responsibility that many others feel lies with him when he repeatedly supports dictatorships and supports Cuba and socialist oppression in Venezuela and so on. If you think that a person can make himself an interpreter for all the different opinions, it is clear that it is perfectly okay to stand behind all the dictatorships that you have set yourself up over the years, Ali Esbati. Maybe that'll give people a little understanding of it. With regard to what you claim to be bourgeois fiction, it is those you and your fellow governments themselves use in the budget, so it is probably the bourgeois propaganda about the equilibrium unemployment measure that is in the left-wing budget that is now in force in Sweden. There is an account of equilibrium unemployment, so it is not an imaginary measure or something that I have stood here lying together, but a measure that is being used in the budget that Ali Esbati himself talks about and takes on board and shows that it is not falling at all. Mr President, I would like to We have a boom in Sweden. More trucks on our roads are good for Sweden. We hope that Sweden's industry will take on even more momentum and that unemployment will thus be able to fall even further. However, unemployment is divided into economic and political factors, and in terms of the unemployment caused by the policy pursued, Ali Esbati and his friends, the Green Party and the Social Democrats themselves, have written that it does not decrease a single thing until 2018. Ali Esbati can roll his eyes and shake his head, but he has written it himself in the budget bill.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-539	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by saying that here we are debating a rather narrow issue. This is a review that the Swedish National Audit Office has made of a labour market effort based on evaluation and follow-up, and then you follow it up with another review where you look at the results to see what became of it all and if you do the right things and so on. In that debate, Niklas Wykman has ended up in both Venezuela and Cuba. He has moved across the whole register in terms of economic policy. He criticizes the Left Party for being friends with dictatorships, but he himself relies on the Swedish Democrats. I have never heard Niklas Wykman criticise the Swedish Democrats in a single way. But maybe that's the new line you have in the Moderates to lean against each other. In connection with criticizing the Left Party for associating with nasty types, perhaps m an could comment on how things stand on the other edge. But let us stick to the point. The majority of committees says that you should go in and rummage about how resources are allocated. When it comes to this evaluation, which does not look at the results, but is just going to review how to evaluate, follow-up and control the whole thing, you step forward and say: No, this is really bad! We ignore the ongoing report from the Swedish National Audit Office and already state that the money needs to be redistributed. Then you take the financial step into the budget debate and say that the money should go to RUT deductions and reduced costs of employment. What's the connection, Niklas Wykman? Now try to be nice and stick to the point.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-542	Mr President, I would like to Raimo Pärssinen insults the Swedish people by wanting three things. First of all, he accuses me of touching on the whole political debate. In the next breath, he says that it is too damn bad that I do not deal with my attitude towards the Swedish Democrats. In the third breath, he says I'll just talk about the matter. Any child who looks at this debate understands that that is completely impossible to do. Thus, it can be said that Raimo Pärssinen makes himself a representative of what could generally be described as political contempt or general bickering. So let me not go to Raimo Pärssinen but answer all three questions. The whole political debate will probably realise that we have not had the time. As far as the Swedish Democrats are concerned, it is enough to make a simple googling to know what is my attitude to their basic view. I do not understand the high tone of Raimo Pärssinen. What do we disagree on? As a matter of fact, you are behind everything we write in committee. You just do not want to remind the government that it should actually do something too. That is the great discrepancy in this. You also want the training to be better and more effective and to get better results and to be evaluated more carefully, don't you think? I cannot, by reading the committee's documents, interpret it as meaning that you want something else. Raimo Pärssinen even says in his speech that we want the same thing. But we in the Alliance, and we have received support from the Swedish Democrats in this matter, think that we want that we should also tell the government. I cannot quite understand where the outrage and overtones of the Raimo Pärssinen debate come from.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-545	Mr President, I would like to If there are harmonics and outrages, the listeners will decide. Personally, I don't think there was, in any way. To get back to what you are saying already now, Niklas Wykman, before an audit has been made, you sometimes claim that you want to lean on evidence, research and so on, but now a review of the results is being made. Before this review, you say: No, we already know that this is not working, and we want to relocate money to other things, such as the RUT deduction or reduced costs for employees. That is what you are writing, and that is where we disagree. What we agree on is that the government really needs to ensure that follow-up and oriented education take place, and this is right. Then I just have to say: No wonder the common people think that the Moderates are unclear in their politics. If you listen to Niklas Wykman in this simple little thing debate, you can understand that, because here it mixes hello wildly. The question is, what do the Moderates really want? What do they want with their cooperation with the Swedish Democrats?
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-548	Mr President, I would like to Raimo Pärssinen is laughable on this question: there is no clear answer from me on the subject, and I will only talk about the subject matter but also give a clear message about what I think of another political party. It just doesn't make sense. This is a magic debate, like Flashback live trapped in the Riksdag. Of course we cannot do that, and a committee chairman should be able to behave a little better than that in a debate. Let me therefore answer the question: we welcome evidence, we welcome this review and we welcome future reviews. The Swedish National Audit Office is not the only investigating authority. We also have the Konjunkturinstitutet, the Fiscal Council and others who also go through the policy in a professional and factual manner and give indications, support and advice on what one might think about political issues. Raimo Pärssinen should read their advice a little more carefully. Mr President, I would like to As the Swedish National Audit Office points out, the cost of the system we are discussing today has quadrupled. It is further noted that the cost has increased much more than the number of participants, although the number of participants has also increased. Raimo Pärssinen! When we have a system that we pay with common money and that quadruples in costs and constantly costs more and more per place, a responsible political party like the Moderates must, of course, question whether the money is used in the most efficient way possible. Why has it become more expensive and expensive? We point out that instead, priority should be given and resources should be used for what evaluations show has had the greatest effect on jobs, such as the RUT deduction. It has proved to give up to 20,000 jobs without costing a single crown in the state budget, but Raimo Pärssinen is against it for ideological reasons. This is a job that Raimo Pärssinen does not want, even though they have become many, has not cost the state a single crown and has given many people completely new life conditions with both their own job and a better everyday puzzle.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-553	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal and rejection of the reservation to be approved. The Swedish National Audit Office's report is another one in the line that shows the Swedish Public Employment Service's lack of governance. The target group is people who need to prepare for another labour market policy programme. It could be study or work. The effort is quite popular; in 2015 78,000 people participated. The cost was 1.9 billion. What, then, did the taxpayers and the client get for this well-accomplished bill? The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the Swedish Public Employment Service does not know. The Swedish National Audit Office finds that there are shortcomings in the follow-up of the operation. There are shortcomings in the analysis of the operation. There are shortcomings in the documentation and evaluation of the operation, even though Preparatory and Orienting Training has a clear purpose: It is a preparation for the next step, which will consist of a new programme – studies or work. On this basis, it is remarkable that there is no proper follow-up to the action. At the end of the operation, it should be possible to check what the individual does next? But the government doesn't seem to be interested in that. In addition, the Swedish National Audit Office finds that Arbetsförmedlingen has such a lack of control that the administrators lack support to manage the resources at their disposal. The Swedish National Audit Office also believes that Arbetsförmedlingen should strengthen its analysis prior to the procurement of contractors of the operation. It is harsh criticism that is directed against Arbetsförmedlingen. The government's response to this criticism is scarce. The Government points out that the Swedish Public Employment Service should take on board the efficiency potential identified by the Swedish National Audit Office. The Government also states that it is closely following Arbetsförmedlingen's work on these issues – it is a development work that you want to continue until 2021. Another remarkable thing is that Arbetsförmedlingen's response to the Swedish National Audit Office's review is not included in the government's letter. I have the answer here, and it's quite interesting reading. If anyone wants to see it after the debate, you are welcome. Answers are usually included in the letters, but not in this case. Mr President, I would like to When an authority completely unbiasedly spends 1.9 billion on an effort that has obvious shortcomings, the taxpayer's only hope is that there is a client who takes this seriously – the government and parliament. It is a pity for taxpayers, because the government's lack of interest in the issue is clear. The Government is satisfied that Arbetsförmedlingen refers to its internal development work, which will last until 2021. The Employment Service claims to be on a renewal journey, which is the Director General's favorite word. It has been going on since 2014, and the Director General of Arbetsförmedlingen is self-appointed travel director. But is that what taxpayers need and want – a travel manager? The Swedish National Audit Office points out in its report that an increase in the number of participants in the operation is predicted. This also means increased annual costs. So this huge waste of resources is still going on when we sit here. This is done with the good memory of the government, without knowing what the taxpayers are getting out of the effort. This has not been measured, or at least the government is not interested in it being reported. The Swedish Democrats have a different picture of what needs to be done. The Swedish National Audit Office shows that there are already follow-up possibilities at Arbetsförmedlingen, and we believe that it is high time to start using these. How is it even possible that a government agency does not properly evaluate an effort that costs nearly SEK 2 billion? However, chooses not to check that tax funds are being used correctly and most effectively. It is not without asking whether Arbetsförmedlingen focuses more on volume targets than impact targets. At the same time: It can't be that the government is satisfied with a high number of participants in the operation and that this is the real reason for the government's inaction before the Swedish National Audit Office's report? Participants in the operation are employed. They are not unemployed, even if the stake is one hour a week. Could this be the main reason for inaction? Mr President, I would like to The management of this effort by the Public Employment Service, in particular the follow-up to it, is deplorable. It is totally unreasonable for such a large part of the state budget to go to an authority that does not act responsibly with taxpayers' money. The Swedish Democrats therefore believe that the government should quickly take steps to improve follow-up. The government should also ensure that labour market policy resources are directed towards actions that deliver results, not just volume targets for labour market intervention so that people become employed. It has no intrinsic value in itself. Mr President, I would like to I had hoped for a change of line, and I'll see if I can get the Social Democrats up on the track. I've read your reservation. You write out exactly what it is about, what is the objective of Preparatory and Orientation Education for the Government and the Employment Service. You write: Preparatory and oriented education is an important element for many of the unemployed who are far from the labour market and are a prerequisite for achieving the government's objective of reducing unemployment and increasing employment. You do, don't you? I must admit that employment has increased. But it is not because these people are adequately educated that they come into another labour market policy measure that can ultimately provide a job, but precisely because people are getting involved in measures. That seems to be the main occupation.
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-570	Mr President, I would like to We will now discuss Preparatory and Orientative Training based on a national audit report that has been presented. To see it in its context, you need to have with you what it looks like on the Swedish labour market in total. Today, the labour market is characterised by a boom in which more and more people are doing well. Thanks to it, a lot of people get a job. But the Swedish labour market is also characterised by a greater division between the people who have faith in the future and those who lack hope. There is also a division between the people who are on or very close to the labour market and the people who are ever further away from it. To tackle this, reforms are needed. It should pay better to work and train in Sweden. Better conditions should be created for learning at work. More jobs are needed that do not require long-term training, so-called simple jobs. However, more effective and effective measures are also needed in order to be able to train and get closer to the labour market and also to achieve a proper matching. In these areas, the government's reforms shine with their absence. The Employment Service is responsible for the labour market measures that have failed in a number of areas. This concerns the efficiency of labour market training in its entirety and matching job seekers with employers screaming for labour. It's extremely unfortunate. Swedish labour market policy makes great use of resources. But efficiency is rarely satisfactory. Less, simpler and more effective labour market policy measures are needed to achieve this. In this way we can free up resources for things that lead to work, including job-creating reforms, which we are highlighting in the committee's report today, linked to the possibility of an extended RUT deduction. This would make it easier for people who are far from the labour market to enter it. The cost of hiring should be reduced so that more companies want to hire. Instead, money should also be invested in effective training efforts in the mainstream education market. These could include, for example, vocational training in Komvux, Apprenticeship, University of Applied Sciences and so on to strengthen people's chances and opportunities in the labour market. Instead, the Social Democracy continues to spend money and resources on labour market training which shows low results. In the case we are discussing today, there is a poor follow-up of the training used and of the governance of the Employment Service. It is therefore impossible to point out what the effects are. Generally speaking, in labour market training, they now have rather weak results. It is a challenge to know that resources are being used wisely. The Center Party wants to see major reforms in the labour market to meet the people farthest from it. It is about reducing the cost of hiring, of training places in the ordinary education system and of enabling learning in the workplace. The great election promise of the Social Democrats, which one would like to highlight, was 32 000 trainee jobs. It was barely 500 trainee jobs. The government's own delegation for young people's work, which has reviewed this, believes that these are far too bureaucratic proposals for both businesses and job seekers to be able to use them. Much can be thanked for the boom that we are in. In addition to this, we see the challenge for Arbetsförmedlingen. It does not succeed in a number of areas. It concerns the matching and the possibility of getting people to work. Last spring, the committee proposed an announcement to the government that the Employment Service's mission should be refined, that it should focus on the exercise of authority and ensure that people are given the right conditions. It has been proposed to introduce employment funds in some respect and to leave it to private operators, organisations and companies to carry out the provision of work. It would probably also be beneficial in terms of labour market training and the preparatory training that we are debating today – this in order to be able to steer more towards results. The most important thing must be to get people to work. Then we must also reward those who are most successful, through various training and matching efforts, in getting people to work. There must be a greater focus on results. It is necessary throughout the labour market. The Swedish National Audit Office's report also shows a lack of governance. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-HMGpPLiGZ8WuJbP1dMytqi	Mr President, I would like to V i has examined the Swedish National Audit Office's report on Arbetsförmedlingen's work with Förförmanande och orientande
i-b4bb335d79a6dd24-584	We respond to the needs of measures addressed in the Swedish National Audit Office's report. It is not small funds that we are talking about, but today it is about 1.9 billion, perhaps up to 2 billion SEK of taxpayers' money that we believe must be spent effectively. In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office has examined how the Swedish Public Employment Service (Arbetsförmedlingen) governs, uses and monitors the effort. Although the government states that it is closely following the agency's continued work, the government's reaction remains there. The fact that the government does not take criticism of the Swedish Public Employment Service's working methods seriously and initiates extensive reform work is serious. That is why we have two points in the proposal for a declaration in order to move forward on this issue. We also take seriously the fact that the inquiry A Lliansen set up on the future of the Swedish Public Employment Service. It also shows that the government does not take the situation with Arbetsförmedlingen seriously. This has meant that, together with the other alliance parties, we have had to get an announcement in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs about the Employment Service and the ongoing investigation, which has been dealt with in another report. The Swedish National Audit Office's report on the preparation and orientation of the training courses is based on a number of gravitating observations. The Swedish National Audit Office shows that, internally in the Swedish Public Employment Service, there are rarely any budget constraints and that Arbetsförmedling (Arbetsförmedling) a – or work mediators who work with the tool – are rarely aware of the cost of the effort that they indicate. It has also emerged in interviews how the preparatory orientative training courses are used to secure an activity level. You have to do activities to get your compensation. You could call this a statistical storage of people. An interview with an external supplier reveals, for example, that Arbetsförmedlingen does not ask for any results in the evaluation of the operation, but focuses only on how the requirements set out in the agreements are complied with. Although Arbetsförmedlingen states that an effort needs to be assessed based on how it has been successful on the way to work, there is no measure of results established. Instead of a job, the most common event – between 50 and 60 per cent – after completing preparatory training is that the person enters a new training course. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the development in which people undergo several such training courses is driven by the e-establishment mission, where the use is very large, but also by people from guarantee programmes, such as the j obbguarantee for young people. The audit by the Swedish National Audit Office reveals some of the problems and weak results that characterise the employment mediation of the Swedish Public Employment Service. It has been pointed out how an administrator at Arbetsförmedlingen provides on average 10.3 jobs per year at a cost of SEK 50 000 per job. This, of course, is not reasonable. The Swedish National Audit Office's review therefore raises the need for a fundamental change in the Swedish Public Employment Service where its current form is abandoned in favour of pure authority. The directives for the current investigation are too weak. The study will need additional directives to look instead at a model of opening up to competition for the provision of work. I hope that there will be other incentives for those who are going to pass on work by having complementary actors who provide a real and effective support effort and an effective matching of jobs for the job seeker. Mr President, I would like to The report contains two announcements to the government, which is what we are dealing with. One of the announcements is to take the necessary measures urgently to follow up the preparatory training of the Public Employment Service. The second is that labour market policy resources should be directed towards actions that deliver better results than the current preparatory work. One of the most important tasks of labour market policy is to equip those furthest from the labour market with measures that make them employable. Employment services have long had low levels of confidence, and measures are now needed to make them effective. We must, of course, manage taxpayers' money in a good and effective way. This requires the government to make reforms, and so these announcements are needed. Mr President, I would like to Finally, the Christian Democrats believe that many different measures are needed to lower the thresholds to work for people who are far from the labour market, so that they can earn their own wages and support themselves. This must be the aim of allowing people to waltz around among different educations that do not lead to work. I therefore look forward to the government coming back as soon as possible with proposals for changes that will ensure that people who need support in working life are given the right support. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
