i-81173b0bfd1139d4-6	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to ensure that the military operations in Visby F 17G receive the redundancy required for the needs of the total defence. The main task of the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority is to provide a safe, efficient and environmentally sound air navigation service for civil and military aviation. This task is independent of the technology used. Air traffic management is a necessary component of air operations. The Swedish Armed Forces impose requirements on operations based on military needs, and the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority is responsible for ensuring that air traffic control at Visby Airport can be conducted without interference for military aviation. The Swedish Civil Aviation Authority has launched a consultation with the Swedish Armed Forces regarding remote operation of air traffic control at Visby Airport. This consultation process addresses the question of whether remote air traffic control affects redundancy in the Swedish Armed Forces' operations.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-9	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday, when I took note of the defence minister's response to my interpellation, I recalled an interpellation debate almost twelve years ago between my former colleague here in Parliament Carl B Hamilton and then Prime Minister Göran Persson. The interpretation was about what security policy implications Sweden's membership of the European Union meant. Part of the debate I remember that the Prime Minister replied that if any EU country were to get into trouble, Sweden could not stand passively. That response gradually developed into the solidarity declaration confirmed by the Treaty of Lisbon and now also applied in a European context. I mention this, Mr President, because it is my view that the answers given to the Members of Parliament's interpellations are becoming more and more meaningless. I would even say that it goes so far as to put the government's side in a system of not answering the question that is being asked. In the long term, I am concerned about what this means for the interpellation and question institute in Parliament and for the whole parliamentary debate. My question to the Minister for Defence was what measures he was prepared to take with regard to total defence and access to the airport in Visby. I have a reply, Mr President, to the effect that consultations are taking place. It is precisely this consultation that is the very background to my question. This will be decided in the near future, but our government and the minister responsible for total defence obviously have no opinion. I did not expect the government to intervene and point with the whole hand here in the pulpit. But whoever is responsible for our total defence should at least be able to problematise this issue. It is about redundancy and robustness – that this is important. It is about Gotland being of strategic importance; it is a view that I believe the Minister for Defence shares. And it is about that Gotland is also geographically isolated. It is not only about combat aircraft, it is about the supply of military personnel, about medical evacuation from the island, about emergency supplies and much more. Mr President, I would like to Most people agree that today's war begins with serious blows to civil infrastructure. The government, given the answer I receive, is clearly prepared to make accessibility to Gotland dependent on the fact that connections to air traffic controllers on the mainland are not broken. I find it adventurous and troubling.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-15	Mr President, I would like to The authorities in this country have one kind of responsibility, and the government has another kind of responsibility. Since the 1970s, a system of so-called integrated air navigation services has been applied in Sweden. This means that the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority is responsible for all air traffic services, both civilian and military. In the event of increased preparedness or war, the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration's air traffic services are organised in the Swedish Armed Forces. In 2010, i.e. under the previous government, a new aviation law came into force. It also opened up the possibility for local air navigation services to become competitive. Local air navigation services are air traffic control at take-off and landing and approach and exit closest to the airport. Local air traffic services are operated in the tower of the airport. Competition means that the airport operator could procure any local air navigation service provider. The Swedish Armed Forces' responsibility is to impose requirements on operations based on military needs, and the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority is responsible for ensuring that the air traffic control at Visby Airport can be operated without interference for military aviation. The Swedish Civil Aviation Authority is responsible for operations even during increased preparedness and war. The work will therefore continue to ensure that the emergency response requirements are met, including that there are staff who can serve in basic preparedness, increased preparedness and war. This is a matter for which the Armed Forces are responsible. I have confidence that the Swedish Armed Forces and the personnel working on these issues in accordance with the direction that has been indicated will solve this type of problem. If you see from the Swedish Armed Forces that you do not have that opportunity, I expect you to contact the Ministry in question. Intervention, as Mr Widman says, is not appropriate in this case. We have a special procedure for this type of issue. This is not a question of responding in an indecent way, but of responding in a way that follows the usual course of events, for example, which distinguish between the tasks of the government and those of the authorities. Widman says he thinks I might have an interest in Gotland. He has been a member of the Defense Committee and in many debates. He should know that I have a deep interest in Gotland. Unless Widman has taken note of media data or otherwise informed himself, I can inform you that the agreement concluded between M, C, KD, MP and S a few days ago also includes that we will invest in anti-aircraft through LVKV on Gotland. So this is not about faith, but about real interest. However, I am also obliged to relate to the regulatory framework that applies between the government and the authorities. I have respect for the authorities to do their job. If they fail to do so, this will have to be addressed at a later stage. However, I do not see any reason for us to intervene in any consultation procedure.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-22	Mr President, I would like to I pointed out in my introductory speech that I assumed that the Minister for Defence shared my view of Gotland's strategic importance and the challenges posed by the fact that the island is geographically isolated from the Swedish mainland. On this point, it is good that we are in complete agreement. There are several things that make me a little concerned. The Minister of Defence resides exclusively with the Armed Forces and military interests. But the Minister is responsible not only for military defence but also for total defence planning, which includes civil defence. My question is: in what way, for example, are the interests of the Civil Protection Agency, which is responsible for civil defence planning, met? Where do they get into the process, and who takes them into account? What about the National Board of Health and Welfare, which is ultimately responsible for health care in the country, even in the event of a crisis or increased preparedness? How do they become involved in the current process, and how are the needs of that authority met? The Secretary of Defense says if anything goes wrong here, we'll have to fix it later. Unfortunately, it is probably the case that if you remove air traffic controllers from Visby and make yourself completely dependent on a cable to the mainland it is very difficult to fix it if the accident is there. It may work for a few months or a few years, but eventually, of course, the technical equipment and skills of the personnel working in Visby's air traffic control tower will disappear. This cannot be remedied in three or four years' time, at least not without significant economic efforts. I think the Minister of Defence knows better than most what happens when an authority leaves Gotland, as the Swedish Armed Forces did during the government Persson 2005. It leads to a long, difficult, hard and very costly re-establishment. I am surprised that the Minister of Defence – and now I am not quoting him – does not have the slightest worry. I know that the Minister for Defence is afraid to report to the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee, but I promise and assure you that there are no obstacles whatsoever to the Minister for Defence to problematise the issue that we are now discussing, which he has consistently renounced so far in this debate. In the Defence Committee yesterday we received information from the E-Health Agency. Nowadays we do not use written recipes in Sweden. Everything is digitized. The Authority expressed concern about the fact that there are no longer blocks for written prescription in our hospitals. There was concern that the written procedure was no longer being practiced. Similarly, we received information from the Riksbank that it is now considering Sweden as the first country in the world to acquire an e-currency, i.e. abolishing the cash society to 100 per cent, with all the risks involved. Now we are in an area where the Minister for Defence has the opportunity to influence and make Swedish society more robust and resilient to stress. But I repeat, the Secretary of Defense is not taking the chance. He completely refrains from problematising a particularly important issue for the Swedish total defence, as I believe.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-30	Mr President, I would like to I believe that Mr Widman is well aware that the government and parliament have established the importance of total defence planning, and this is based on current constitutional regulation. Since the Riksdag made its defence decision, which runs until 2020, the Government has decided on 10 December 2015 on assignments and planning instructions to the relevant authorities, including the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration. The decision means that all actors must take a total defence perspective into account in the planning of their operations. These are the things that the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority has to deal with when it acts. Total defence is about preparing Sweden for the effort needed in war. This is about both military and civil defence. Traders, social partners and authorities have an obligation to participate in this. Only in the agreement that Mr Widman's party does not include, do we also provide specific resources for the planning of total defence. With regard to the matter itself – although Widman wants to discuss a wide range of issues in the development of society that do not concern this matter – it is nevertheless the Swedish Armed Forces who are responsible for making demands on the operations based on military needs. The Swedish Civil Aviation Authority is responsible for ensuring that the air traffic control at Visby Airport can be operated without interference for military aviation. As I said, we follow this whole thing with interest. We note that there is a consultation going on, as I have said before. Then I would like to add a few facts. Saab and the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration co-owner the system for automated air traffic management. This service is delivered to the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration through RTS, Remote Tower Services. Today, the airports in Örnsköldsvik and Sundsvall are controlled remotely from the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration's remote control centre in Sundsvall, with over 6,000 hours of operational operation since 2015. Soon Linköping City Airport will also be remotely controlled from the central centre in Sundsvall. There has been a recent roll-out of five remote control operators. In this perspective, we will see what the consultation on Visby will lead to. I repeat that there must be a rough run between the authorities and the government as to who is responsible for what, with the directives in place for total defence planning and possible planning for how to deal with it in an elevated state of preparedness, in a state of war and with obsolete systems. I will not go into such details, because there is secrecy. Ultimately, the Swedish Armed Forces are responsible for the demands made by the Swedish Armed Forces. That's where the responsibility lies. With a debate based on a general problematisation around one scenario after another, you cross the border and get into what in this context is the responsibility of the authority. I do not think that in this context there is much room for free-riding. We will now see what the result of the consultation procedure is. We follow it from the Government Office, but it is the Authority that is responsible for it.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-36	Mr President, I would like to It is true that Allan Widman and the Liberals chose to stand by when there was a supplementary defence settlement on Monday. This meant that the Swedish Armed Forces, which today has a turnover of approximately SEK 45 billion a year, received an additional SEK 425 million. At the press conference, the vice chairman of the defense committee told us that they had celebrated this with a cake at the Ministry of Defence. My thoughts went to the question: Was the cake included in the 425 million? In fact, it has some economic significance. I note that the Minister of Defence consistently leaves out the civil defence aspects of the issue we are now discussing. He refers to military activity. But what about the emergency supply to Gotland in the event of a crisis or increased preparedness? What about evacuation of injured or ill patients from the island in case of crisis or increased alertness? The Minister of Defence has consistently refrained from answering these questions. There is no constitutional obstacle whatsoever for the Minister of Defence to at least try to problematise and express concern about the current automation in the most strategic country that Sweden has, namely Gotland. Instead, he shoots responsibility at the Armed Forces. The Social Democrats are prepared to do exactly the same thing as they did in 2005, when they left Gotland militarily, namely to get a long, difficult and costly take-off on the day they realise they have to go back there.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-39	Mr President, I would like to I don't know what to say about this cake thing. But think how funny you can be, Widman! Of course, this half-billion has an effect in many areas. It includes, among other things, anti-aircraft systems on Gotland and increased possibilities for dissemination on air bases as well as vehicles for the Air Force and Home Guard, increased numerary in practice activities, reinforcements in incident preparedness and in preparedness control and so on. If Mr Widman wants to belittle the value of such measures, it is, of course, up to him, but for me these are realities. I can only say this: I consistently see how the Liberals and Widman do not want to participate in what is the constructive construction of the defence. One chooses more a role alongside to get various opportunities for different kinds of political moves that could possibly render some kind of opinional success, or whatever it is one imagines. I have not in any way denied responsibility or in any way said that one or the other is not a problem. I'm just trying to maintain the gulf between what is a government responsibility and what is a government responsibility. Then it is clear that one can act as a government so that one finally comes in and discusses every single measure that exists on the base plane of the Armed Forces and every thing that happens in different contexts. But then you quickly turn to a dimension of government control that usually leads to other types of activities. I maintain the order between government and authority. I have answered how this matter is handled. I have also replied that this is part of the total defence mission, which also includes the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration. I have not at all avoided touching that part.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-45	Mr President, I would like to Krister Hammarbergh has asked me if I think it was basically a good police effort in connection with the riot in Rinkeby on 20 February. The interpellant has also asked what measures I intend to take to enable more police officers to participate in important actions when the order is under threat and whether I intend to take any steps to restore security in Rinkeby. Finally, Krister Hammarbergh asks if I intend to take any steps to ensure that the police station in Rinkeby can be completed by 2019. It is the Police Authority that determines the actual resource needs of each given operation and which preparations or re-disposals need to be carried out to meet the needs. The police authority is responsible for continuously evaluating and monitoring the activities in order to ensure that they are carried out efficiently and with high quality. This situation also applies, of course, to emergency operational interventions carried out in vulnerable areas, for example, and according to Polisregion Stockholm, a follow-up of the operation is now to be carried out. Krister Hammarbergh is surely aware that Rinkeby is one of the areas that the Police Authority has chosen to prioritise. The policy authority's work on resource redeployment to local police areas should benefit particularly vulnerable areas. This applies in particular to the priority areas. According to the Police Authority's Annual Report 2016, all nine local police areas with particularly vulnerable areas have strengthened their police resources compared to 2015. The reinforcement of resources in the local police areas promotes a locally-based and present police force, as well as active law enforcement and crime prevention work involving a wide range of actors. The police authority has decided that a new police house will be built in Rinkeby, and a contract procurement is ongoing. The government does not have control over this process and cannot therefore provide guarantees for a certain end date. However, the Government may provide the Police Authority with the financial conditions necessary for it to carry out its mission. In order to give the Swedish Police Authority these opportunities, the Government has announced increased funding to the Swedish Police Agency for a total of just over SEK 2 billion during the period 2017 – 2020.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-50	Mr President, I would like to On Monday, February 20, another of these riots took place, this time in Rinkeby. The police were going in and arresting a person. Criminal forces felt that the police had no place in the area. The police had to shoot fire in order to escape for themselves when they were going to arrest the wanted one. Then there were car fires, looted shops, looted traders and innocent assaulted persons. The police couldn't go into the area. There were too few of them. According to the press, there were about 20 police cars a mile away with orders to wait. The riot had to escalate, with major injuries as a result. The next day, quite rightly, many residents of the area were very upset by the inaction of the police. The Deputy Commandant himself expressed that the operation was a failure. The Ygeman Government stated in connection with what had happened that it was probably basically a good police effort. Maybe it got a little messy when the police were going to intervene. This was done in a situation where the police had to shoot sharp in order to escape the stoning. 30 - 50 people took part in a violent riot. None of these were arrested. The police were too few to intervene. For this reason, I have asked four questions to the Government. The first question was whether the Government basically thought it was a good police effort. The media have shown that he has changed his mind a little later: perhaps it was not entirely successful. However, in the interpellation response, Minister Ygeman avoids making any judgement as to whether it was good or not. The second question, which is essential, was about what measures he intends to take to enable more police officers to participate in important actions when the order is under threat. The answer from the Government is obviously that he does not intend to take any action. It's up to the police, he says. At the same time, Mr President, we know that the police are in an emergency economically. At the same time, we know that there are obvious recruitment projects, not least with regard to the police's Mareld project. The third question was whether he intends to take any steps to restore security in Rinkeby. The answer is that more resources have been added. But it's wrong. No more resources have been added. Yes, more civilian resources have been added. But it is very difficult to determine whether the now 13 more civilian employees – these are figures from the police's HR department – are working on investigations or whether they are working on other things. There's five more cops. This increase consists of four police aspirants and only one permanent employment. So there are no impressive increases in the area, unlike what is expressed in the answer to the interpellation. My fourth question concerns the police station. I'm well aware that the government doesn't build houses on its own. But the government controls the country, and the government can give important signals. An important signal that society can give is to ensure that the police station closed in 2014 is restored as soon as possible, even if there are major difficulties. The Government responds that what the government can do is to provide financial resources. It refers to a budget which, in principle, does not provide any financial resources during this term of office. It's small, small money – we're going to debate another interpellation today – which means that the police this year will go on credit. Mr President, I would like to I am very concerned about this development.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-59	Mr President, I would like to First: The description given by Krister Hammarbergh of the events in Rinkeby is not correct – neither in the form of timelines nor actual events. I'm sure the upcoming investigation will prove that, too. Then I just want to make one thing clear: when I said that the police operation was essentially a good effort, I talked about the first operation, where the offender was arrested and where it was not messy. Then it didn't just get messy, it also became a riot – I think that's the right name. I believe that there may be reason to criticise the actions of the police. That is also why the police have now set up an investigation. One should investigate what was done right and what was done wrong and ensure that one can act better on the next occasion. There have been more employees in Rinkeby. There are more employees now than when the Moderates ruled Sweden. There have been more employees, both police officers and civilians, in all the socially vulnerable areas. There are more police officers in the socially vulnerable areas now than when the Moderates ruled Sweden. That is fundamentally positive. It is also fundamentally positive that we have already spent hundreds of millions of extra money on the police and that there is now more investment in the police than ever when the Moderates ruled Sweden. But Krister Hammarbergh is also right: that is not enough. We need to invest additional financial resources in the police. And so will the government. More employees are needed in socially disadvantaged areas. But it also requires that the rest of society be in the socially vulnerable areas, that youth unemployment is reduced rather than increased, as it did during Moderates' time in power, and that school results are better than worse, as they were during Moderates' time in power. It is gratifying that this development has come and that we now have the lowest youth unemployment rate in over 20 years in Sweden.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-64	Mr President, I would like to Obviously, the Government regrets its first statement on these events. I believe, Mr President, that when serious events occur, it is very important that representatives of the Swedish Government also give the correct signals as to what we citizens should assume works, that is, that it should be calm and safe in our areas. The Ygeman Government often refers to the previous government. We are not going to take that fact-finding, but it is certainly needed. The difference is that compared to before, we now have a police officer in free fall. The difference is that compared to the past, we now have a police officer with an acute economic crisis. The problem now is that we have an escalating number of shootings, where the criminals take over area by area in town after city. We also see the car fires spreading across the country. It is a serious situation that every government must take into account, take very seriously and do what it can with. I would argue that the riots are totally unacceptable. They show that the situation is urgent. They show that concrete political action is needed. There's a need for leadership. We must break the trend with riots, car fires and escalating crime. When the police are attacked, the whole rule of law and democratic society are attacked. When ordinary law-abiding citizens see their cars set on fire, not only do they attack them, but they attack all of us. When entrepreneurs do not dare to remain in the area, it is a sign of disintegration and an attack on our entire society. This is now an example of a neighbourhood in which criminal groups have gained such a strong grip on the development that they see society's representatives as invaders in the area. It's untenable. This is a serious situation. We can't back down. Step by step, we must ensure that the police have the capacity and ability to take back land. We should not have parallel societies in Sweden. Law and order shall apply throughout the country, including in Rinkeby. We need more cops, in Rinkeby and elsewhere. We need a substantial reinforcement of police resources. The problem is that the government has so far not provided the necessary resources. We want to do it. If the moderate budget had been available, we would only have had 1 billion more this year. But we also want to do more, especially with regard to these situations. First of all, we want to create a new, own criminal offence, violence against officials, with a minimum sentence of at least six months in prison. Today, it is a normal financial penalty. Secondly, we want reactions to be tightened up when civil protection and health workers are attacked with stones in order to save people. We want a new crime – violence against emergency service personnel. Thirdly, we want a basis for enforcement, which means that all crimes involving attacks on important social functions also lead to increased penalties. We also want to review the possibility for the police to actually obtain damages when they are wrongly attacked. To this we want to look at the Danish model with a zone ban. It's worked well there. Rinkeby is a typical area where this would be useful. It is time we looked at this. It is time for us to restore security, restore the rule of law and take back lost areas.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-77	Mr President, I would like to Krister Hammarbergh says that zone ban has been an effective and well-functioning measure in Denmark. Krister Hammarbergh has one speech left, so he is happy to report on the evaluations he has taken note of regarding the zone ban. I have heard from the Danish police, the Danish universities and the Danish authorities, and I understand that there is no evaluation of the zone ban. But if Krister Hammarbergh has other information, I am happy to receive it. It gets a little weird when Krister Hammarbergh evils himself that everything is in free fall. If you have that view, then compare: What does it look like in these years in comparison with the bourgeois years? We have had seven years of reduced investigation results: the findings of the investigation decreased throughout the time you were in power. We are now spending more money on the police than we have ever done before. Please look, Krister Hammarbergh, at what the deficits for the Swedish police looked like during the time you ruled! We're talking about socially vulnerable areas. I and Krister Hammarbergh agree that development should be reversed. But look at what happened during the time that the Moderates ruled Sweden! The Moderates themselves have made an evaluation of the eight bourgeois years and found that there were more socially vulnerable areas during that time. It's no wonder. Unemployment rose, school results fell and gaps increased. Now we have turned that trend around. We are investing in the future instead of making tax cuts for those who have the most, and we are now seeing the lowest youth unemployment in Sweden in over 20 years. We are beginning to reverse school developments, as can be seen in international surveys and in upper secondary school qualifications. We saw in Dagens Nyheter where the development was reported that it is now turning around in some socially vulnerable areas. Policely, we still have to pay the price for the gaps and unemployment for a long time. I therefore believe, unfortunately, that we will see more socially vulnerable areas where the police will have to strengthen their efforts over the next few years. Then we must ensure that the police have the right resources for it in the form of the right equipment and training. We need to invest more money in Swedish police. More police are needed, more civilian workers are needed, and they are most needed in socially vulnerable areas. Therefore, it is very gratifying also for Krister Hammarbergh that over the past year there have been more police officers in all the socially vulnerable areas. Krister Hammarbergh is happy to report how development in the socially vulnerable areas and in terms of police resources was during the time that Krister Hammarbergh's party ruled Sweden.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-84	Mr President, I would like to I was worried when we started the interpellation debate, and my concern is no less now. The lack of answers as to what the government intends to do and take responsibility for is striking. Instead, the Government is talking about the former government. The results of the investigation have never been as low as they are now. I have met police officers in the field who say that in the past we had a moderate minister who actually chased us and asked how the development results went. No one's asking any questions now. Mr President, I would like to That's enough! Everyone should be able to be safe in their neighborhoods and communities. When criminals want to set the agenda and the rules, then we from society should be able to say stop. It is time to put away silk mittens for people who have no borders and thus actually restrict other people's freedom and ability to live a good life in their areas. That's enough. According to the form of government, the government governs the country. My call to the Government, in his field, is: Do it! Do something!
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-88	Mr President, I would like to I am glad that Krister Hammarbergh meets people who lack moderate former ministers. I'll admit I haven't met anyone so far. But we might move in different circles when we meet cops. Our message is very simple, Krister Hammarbergh, and if I have been unclear I will quickly repeat it: More police officers, more resources, sharper laws, faster prosecution! Over 30 legislative proposals have already come into force in this area, and more are on the way. Exclusion and exclusion must be broken. We should have reduced gaps, more young people in jobs and in better education. We're going to break the alienation, and we're also going to break the crime.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-91	Mr President, I would like to Mrs Quicklund has asked me when and how I intend to monitor the impact of police priorities on the national operational department and its base in Östersund. One of the most important conclusions of the parliamentary inquiry into a new police authority was that the police need to get closer to the citizens. This means that local work should be the basis of the agency's activities, with increased presence and accessibility based on local conditions and needs. The Authority has therefore carried out a transfer of resources to the local police areas. In order to give priority to this work, the Head of State Police has recently announced an employment freeze for a certain period of time in the national departments. However, in dialogue with the chief police officer, we have been informed that the agency will apply the suspension in such a way that there can be significant negative consequences for the operation. It is the Police Authority that decides how the agency's resources are to be allocated internally within the organisation. However, the Police Authority has a comprehensive mandate that often involves difficult balances in terms of resource allocation between different urgent tasks and geographical areas. It is therefore important that the Police Authority has an effective follow-up of both activities and resources. This provides information that is important for both the authority's management's ability to manage the business internally as well as the government's ability to control the agency. In February, the Government commissioned the Police Authority to develop its operational follow-up. In October this year, the Authority will present its first report based on the developed follow-up.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-94	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of the Interior, for your answer. One reason why we are standing here today is that I want to raise the issue of the understaffing of the police helicopter in Östersund. It has unacceptable consequences. According to the Home Secretary's reply, the intentions of the new police organization were that the police should be close to the citizens. Substantially negative consequences would also be avoided. Yes, the Police Authority also decides how resources are allocated, but the Home Secretary is ultimately responsible for the agency. That is also why we are debating today. The intentions are good, but unfortunately the reality is quite different. The Head of the National Police has reportedly, without coverage, begun a process of employment of a thousand civil servants. At the same time, he also loves 3.9 billion to the Police Authority. The Government's funding is known for the most part in 2018 and 2019. If the chief of police doesn't get his money out, he'll take it. that he will resign just a thousand people in the Police Department. That approach surprises me very much. A relevant question may be: How does this affect an already understaffed police authority? Mr President, I would like to There are great challenges. I think we should return to today's topic in the debate. The police helicopter unit in Östersund is understaffed, and this has been the case for a long time. Not only does the helicopter operate in Jämtland County but it covers 25 percent of the country's surface area. Then there are also missions in Greece. You go down to Greece and work for Frontex. It's also a way to raise funds to the police department. Then there is no police helicopter during that period. Although I believe that this effort is valuable, it is a reality. So there's a police helicopter costing 60 million. The rent for the premises is 1 million. There's a full-time technician serving the helicopter. There are four officers, three police pilots – helicopter pilots – and one navigator. It is precisely that the navigator is alone that means that there is no maximum and optimal coverage for the expensive and advanced police helicopter, for which we are grateful. The police are also responsible for the mountain rescue. That's where the police flight is doing fantastic work. There are many such stories where you save lives and save suffering for injured persons. It is also the only unit in Sweden where there is the ability to winch people in the mountains. There are many stories about amazing efforts. The list of valuable contributions is long, and we shall not mention any more of them. I think the Home Secretary understands. The long distances that exist in the interior of Norrland make the staffing of police officers more difficult. The police flight is a fantastic resource for flying out and transferring personnel to the remote villages in a large sparsely populated area. With so few executives, as I just reported, it is also difficult to meet the requirements for coverage and make the transports. Time is often crucial when people disappear in the terrain. With coverage of only nine hours a day for the helicopter and four out of six weekends, I wonder if the Minister for the Interior can comment on these conditions.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-104	Mr President, I would like to Saila Quicklund expresses the value of the police aircraft, especially the police aircraft stationed in Östersund. I have visited Östersund myself and flown with that helicopter. I agree in essence with Mrs Quicklund's description. But it is neither the parliament nor the government's task to interfere in the staffing of individual parts of the police. It is the Police Authority that is responsible for the staffing. The Police Authority has increased its financial resources, and the Police Authority now has more employees and bigger budgets than ever before. It is the Authority that is responsible for prioritising its resources within the framework of that work.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-106	Mr President, I would like to Let us remind ourselves that it is nevertheless the Minister for the Interior who is ultimately responsible for the budget allocation and the authority. The police helicopter unit can't reach the manning target. Of course, there are consequences. This has major consequences in terms of insecurity for citizens, whom I hear often say they pay taxes like everyone else and also those in that part of the country are entitled to security. Mr President, I would like to I agree with those who express this. I understand the great challenges that exist in the big cities. On the other hand, we must not leave the rest of the country to its fate, especially the countryside and sparsely populated areas. There are enormous distances, and there are many tourists who want to visit the mountains. It is the basic industry in those regions. There are also expectations from those of us who live in these parts of the country and from the tourists that there is a well-functioning social function, that is, the police. The training time for a pilot is long, and independence can only be achieved after three years. There is a great need to recruit pilots for training. But now there is a stoppage and an overtime stop. This also affects that process. It's very serious. How long will the job stop be? That is a relevant question. The head of the police helicopter section clearly sees the need. He has also sought funds for another navigator. The Minister for the Interior and I have previously debated the situation in Jämtland County in terms of police intervention. We have been hard hit because of the move of LKC, Länskommunikationcentralen, from Östersund to Umeå. The wrong county, the wrong address and the wrong city well sums up what many policemen express of what has happened since the unit was moved up to Umeå. There are several examples of police patrols that have been referred wrong from Umeå because they have been wrong on Ö-vik, Örnsköldsvik, and Östersund. In a sharp expression, they've gone 300 miles wrong. Earlier this summer there was a prio-1 case where a young girl was shot at by a person. The alarm found that unfortunately there was no police patrol to send. During the summer there was a police patrol of 300 miles. What should I answer those county dwellers who feel a great worry about their personal security? What should I answer the tourists and visitors, our basic industry, who feel a concern when using our fantastic mountains and our fantastic outdoor life, which is so highly appreciated? The Minister will be happy to answer.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-114	Mr President, I would like to I'm not going to write Saila Quicklund's speech or question answer. I'm sure she's perfectly capable of doing it herself. I would just like to point out that the Head of State Police has decided to suspend the employment of national departments. The reason for this is that we have had too much growth of police workers nationally and regionally and too little increase in police officers out in the local police areas. The background to the reform, which both I and Saila Quicklund's party in Parliament have been in favour of, was that more resources would come closer to the citizens. I think that is fundamentally important for a successful police officer. How long this suspension of employment is needed to release resources, it is up to the chief of police to decide. He, too, has made that decision. Again, we are spending more money on the police than we have ever done before. We have more police employees than we've ever had before. It should provide good conditions for a functioning police service throughout the country.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-119	Mr President, I would like to The Head of the National Police is in love with almost 4 billion, so you obviously do not agree that the funding allocation is quite sufficient. This interpellation debate has not given the answers I would have liked. Nor have I had any hope of improving the police situation in Jämtland County or in general in the country. On the contrary, we can take note of the announcement that the authority is threatened by mass redundancies in times when insecurity in the country is greatest. It worries me, and it worries the people of the country. As I said before, there is an understanding that the big cities have enormous challenges, but the whole country must live. I would like the Minister of the Interior to take account of what I have said and to see that security is increasing in general. Sweden is also – let us remind ourselves of this – in a boom. The expectations are therefore particularly high that the government can ensure that our police organisation, such an important function of society, will function with sufficient resources. That is not the case today. Moreover, the government's biggest contribution to the agency seems to come after the elections, and I am concerned about that. But I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the police and civil servants who do an amazing job every day, who work to make us feel safe in society. Many thanks to them! Finally, I would also like to thank the Minister for Home Affairs for the debate today.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-126	Mr President, I would like to Then I have nothing more to do than thank Saila Quicklund for this interpellation debate and note that we agree on the need for a functioning police force throughout the country, not least in the North Region and in Jämtland. We must jointly ensure that this is the case.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-127	Mr President, I would like to Krister Hammarbergh has asked me how I and the government view the need for a substantial strengthening of police resources and what measures I intend to take to ensure the Politiska ombudsman's finances for this year. Furthermore, Krister Hammarbergh has asked me what measures I intend to take to avoid redundancies and whether I believe that there are parts of the country which have such a high police density and presence that staff employed can be dismissed. The police authority already assessed last year that the agency needs more police officers until 2020. The Authority also indicated the need for more staff with a different competence from the police. These are assessments that I share. The Government therefore contributed resources to the Swedish Police Authority in both the 2016 spring change budget and the 2017 budget bill. The government also stated in the same budget proposal that we are prepared to return to the resource issue if necessary. Therefore, I follow the agency's activities very closely and have an ongoing and close contact with the Police Authority on these issues. The political authority's forecasts showed last year a large surplus for 2016. The surplus would contribute to the financing of operations in 2017, and a small contribution to the 2017 allocation was therefore sufficient. In 2016, the Police Authority recruited more civil servants than planned, so the costs were higher and the surplus was lower than expected. In the current year, the Police Authority therefore needs to use its grant credit. The Police Authority has now received its budget base for 2018-2020. The Agency's request shall be analysed and prepared within the framework of the work on the 2018 budget proposal. The government's position on the political authority's future resource needs will thus be dealt with in the usual order.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-131	Mr President, I would like to I look forward to this interpellation debate as well. I'm also worried about the financials of the police. In the previous interpellation debate, the Government did everything he could to escape his own responsibility and place responsibility for what is happening now on previous governments. It's gonna be harder for him to do it this time. The police's findings have never been as low as during Anders Ygeman's time. In fact, it has been a long time since the police were in such a strained financial situation as it is in now. We'll have to go back to the beginning of the '90s to see similar events. The police's budget came just recently, Mr President. The head of the Swedish police writes that if additional funding is not provided, it will already be decided this year that the number of employees must be reduced by about one thousand employees – one in addition to the estimated efficiency improvements. The Head of the Swedish Police says that it will not be able to meet all the requirements and expectations in terms of crime prevention and security-building work, including in the priority areas, and that priority will be given to reducing the amount of criminal investigations. Moreover, it will not be able to cope with the increase in ambition in the fight against terrorism. This applies to the coming years. But the fact is that the police are already in economic crisis this year. The police will if nothing happens after the spring bill to actually live on credit. Funds have been saved since previous years. It is from those previous governments, when there were appropriations instead of saved funds that the government in its budget base expected the police to live on. The problem is that the surplus that was talked about in 2016 became a deficit and that we thus have an underfunded activity during this year. The situation is urgent. In fact, this year's activities need to be strengthened. Had our draft budget been adopted, the police would have had an additional 1 billion at their disposal. We had a fairly clear debate in the budget debate, not least me and the Minister for the Interior, about the obvious under-financing of the police. The Government did not want to answer any more than to add more resources during the period, and it actually means the next term of office. The truth is that the envelope increased by less than SEK 100 million onor. Thus, with open eyes, the government entered a financial year with under-financing by the police. That is why I have asked four questions. The first is how the Government sees the need for a strong reinforcement of police resources. The interpellation response reveals almost nothing, but if I understood the previous debate correctly, the Government would like to add both more civilian workers and more police. Then the question will automatically be how these are to be paid because even this year the money is not enough to pay these salaries. The second is what measures the Government intends to take to ensure the economy for this year. Nothing, judging by the answer, because the answer is that you have to live on credit. Now I don't really know what the government means. The Prime Minister flagged that adjustments might have to be made, but Anders Ygeman seems to have a different view. The third is what measures the Government intends to take to avoid the redundancies of personnel flagged by the Chief of Police. There was no answer. The fourth is quite logical: if you are to resign staff, where should you do it?
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-146	Mr President, I would like to Krister Hammarbergh is an experienced politician. There is no doubt about it. He therefore knows that the budget is presented on two occasions: a spring budget and a spring change budget in the spring and an autumn budget and an autumn change budget in the autumn. Budgetes are not presented in interpellation debates or on other occasions. Therefore, Krister Hammarbergh will have to give up until the budget proposal for spring is presented.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-148	Mr President, I would like to Obviously it became a little sensitive because the answer shows that the police should live on credit. This can be interpreted, if you are benevolent, as meaning that there may be some money, but not enough. I guess that's still to be seen. I hope and expect a substantial addition to the spring bill. Basically, this is about taking responsibility. Again, it is about sending important signals. When we have riots in our neighbourhoods, the police must have sufficient financial resources to pay for their staff and also to employ staff, which both I and the Government apparently think should be done. Nevertheless, I feel rather distressed because, relatively recently, we had a budget debate where we had a discussion about the fact that we entered a year with clear under-financing. I pointed this out in the debate, but the ministers fit. There was talk of surplus. The strange thing, Mr President, is that it is still said that the police had a surplus in 2016. In most normal activities, a deficit is a deficit. When costs exceed revenues, you go minus, and that's exactly what the police did in 2016. Surpluses were not made, but a deficit of SEK 210,319,000 was made. It's taken from their annual accounts. On the other hand, funds have been saved from the previous alliance years, and they are the ones you live on now. But that is not enough; it is also necessary to take credit. The budget debate raised the question. Then the answer from the Government was that you have to get the police's efficiency started. That's where the money was to be taken. Is it still the Government's view that it is enough to increase the efficiency of the police, i.e. that the police themselves should save up the funds that are now lacking to pay salaries? Or is the Government afraid to ensure that the police receive additional resources even this year? A lot of people are waiting for answers. Many people expect something, because it is an emergency. I'm worried.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-154	Mr President, I would like to I do not know if the concerns correspond to the actual situation. Let me briefly recall some basic facts. The police have more money than they've ever had before. The police have more employees than they've ever had before. The number of police officers is growing where they are most needed: in the socially vulnerable areas. Police funding in the future must be a combination of increasing efficiency, freeing the police from tasks that others can do better or should not do at all and providing additional funds. However, an interpellation debate is not the occasion for the government to present its budget. We present budgets twice a year: in spring and autumn, just as was done during the moderate government and as has always been done. This will be the order of the future.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-158	Mr President, I would like to In a situation where we have a police officer who is obviously in difficulties and is largely in crisis, where we are in riots and where we have greater financial deficits in police activity than we have had in many years, the Minister for Home Affairs seems to be satisfied. I'm worried about that. When we have riots, the results of investigations are falling and the police are going on credit, the Government seems, at least in this interpellation debate, to be empty-handed. I think it is a good thing that we have finally backed up and taken the initiative to free the police from some tasks. This was refused at the beginning of the term of office – the investigation to review this was closed. Now you've come up with better thoughts, and I think that's good. Nevertheless, according to the government's form of government, it is the government that governs the country and must take responsibility. My call to the Government, both in terms of the economy and the fact that we have to take back lost districts, is: Follow the form of government, and do something!
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-162	Mr President, I would like to We do quite a lot. We are doing far more than previous governments have done in the corresponding time. We provide resources so that we have more money and more police employees than ever before. With regard to the talk of simplification, the reason why we are no longer investigating is because we are acting. This could have been done even during the time of the previous government. We transfer a number of tasks from the police to other authorities. It is about transport handrails, which are taken from the police to the Prison Service's transport service. This allows authorities to call off transport directly from the transport service rather than having to detour the police. There is quite a lot of resources that are released from the police in terms of this previously tore up work shifts. Now animal husbandry and domestic animals are being moved from the police to the county administrative boards. It is also important, perhaps especially in sparsely populated areas. In terms of the overall size and scope of the police budget, the government returns on this in connection with the spring bill and the autumn bill.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-167	Mr President, I would like to In Sweden we should have a security to trust. It should apply to everyone, no matter where you live in the country. Now insecurity is increasing, and we have to reverse the trend. That is why we Moderates have asked for this debate. We have a security crisis in Sweden. The criminals laugh at society. This harsh statement comes from the chief of police in Rinkeby. It can't be like this. Law and order shall be maintained. We need to put an end to criminal gangs, and there must be an end to burglary and damage to ordinary people. We Moderates demand at least 2 000 more police officers, higher police salaries, stronger protection against attacks and a new leadership. We also need to introduce what is called a zone ban to prevent anyone who acts threateningly or spreads insecurity in our streets and squares. Anyone who commits serious violent and gun crimes must be punished more severely than today. The victim of crime needs redress. Mr President, I would like to In short, we need law and order. Without this, no foundation is laid for security, cohesion and confidence in the future.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-171	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Moderates, who have requested this debate. The development of serious crime is serious. In Gothenburg we saw an execution, which in practice was about, at Vår Krog & Bar. In Stockholm we have had two double murders in two days. In Malmö gang crime has grown too strong, and ruthlessness seems to increase. The limit for resorting to extreme violence has been shifted. Lives have been harvested. Family, friends and relatives mourn. The socially vulnerable areas have had new deep scars. The image of Seved, the Raspberry Mountains and Kista has been blackened down. From day one, one of the government's most important priorities has been to push back the serious organised crime and increase security. The criminal gangs are about to break. The police force in the suburbs has grown. Last year several hundred police officers were added to the socially vulnerable areas, and the police's work is also producing results. For both double murders in Stockholm, suspects have been arrested. After the attack in Vår Krog & Bar in Gothenburg, the perpetrators were given life and 21-year prison sentences. Even in Malmö, suspects have begun to be arrested for several of the murders. The government has tightened the legislation against serious organised crime. We have criminalized attempts, preparation and conspiracy to commit a serious weapon offence. We're tightening up the penalties for explosives and hand grenades. We are doubling the minimum penalty for serious gun crimes, for detention as the basic rule and allowing for secret telephone tapping in the fight against weapons and hand grenades. This means that anyone who goes out on the street with a sharp - loaded weapon or a hand grenade is at risk of not coming home for two years. Crime must be eliminated from several directions at the same time. We have given directives to all twelve authorities working together against organised crime to tighten the noose around criminal groups in the affected areas. We are investing in the prevention of crime, which, unfortunately, was downgraded by previous governments. We sharpen the tools of the authorities, and we tighten the penalties. Last year, some thirty new legal provisions came into force to strengthen society's resilience to organised crime. We have made it possible to judge gang leaders because they have not prevented crime known to them. We have made it easier to pick off criminal watches, cars and cash. We are investigating the introduction of secret data reading so that the secret coercive devices can also be used against those using encrypted platforms, such as Viber or Skype. We need rapid, clear and legal responses to crime. We are investigating how faster prosecution can be achieved in emergency courts. We start a pilot project with faster prosecution after the summer. This work has a particular focus on young people who commit crimes and people who repeatedly commit new crimes. We want smarter penalties for young people. It will be possible to be sentenced to house arrest in the evenings and weekends, so that you can't be out running around the city and causing trouble. Mr President, I would like to There are as many reasons for the shootings as there are perpetrators. Crime crime must also be put in a broader perspective. Around our country are neighborhoods, districts and suburbs that have been left to their fate, which too many for too long have turned a blind eye to. It is about the renovation of homes that never happened, the project of labour market measures that died out and the shop and the ATM that disappeared. It is in these districts that insecurity increases the most. This is where violence escalates. This is where ruthless criminals have been given room to dictate the conditions for people's lives. This is the result of 10 to 15 years of growing gaps, falling school outcomes and rising unemployment. We are now turning this trend around. The employment rate in Sweden is the highest in 20 years. The school results are coming up. Now we gather the authorities' resources, give the police better tools and give them more resources. Now we're introducing faster prosecution and smarter penalties. We owe it to our suburbs, and we owe it to all the people who live there, go to work and do the right thing.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-182	Mr President, I would like to Those were serious words from Minister of the Interior Anders Ygeman. Recently, however, it sounded different when riots, burning cars and looting of stores were described as a little messy. But no, it's not really about a little mess. The situation in the exclusion areas is acute. The insecurity is not far away; it is great and near. Where insecurity is greatest, a visible and present police officer is needed. Today, Swedish police are in crisis. It is the weight of too few colleagues, lack of resources, weak wage development and unclear leadership. In addition, up to 1 000 posts are now in danger of disappearing from the police. It's happening at a time when we need more cops on our streets. The police themselves state that the ambitions for, for example, crime prevention and local presence may need to be lowered. At the same time, the police's ability to cope with crime is the lowest in 16 years. In Malmö, prosecutors have found that the police can't even investigate murder properly. For example, victims of vandalism or burglary rarely receive redress. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs more police. We Moderates invest in our budget ten times more in budget increases compared to the government to improve the police's ability to carry out their important mission. Anyone who attacks and attacks the police or other blue-light personnel will be punished more severely than today. The government is now talking about an investigation that should not be completed until the summer of 2018. It's too late. We Moderates think that violence against civil servants should give at least six months in prison. Civil protection and healthcare workers must be given stronger legal protection. The penalties for attacks on essential social functions and obstruction of call-outs need to be clearer. Mr President, I would like to Every third woman feels insecure in her own neighborhood. Think about it — every third woman! In some areas, criminals have had such a far-reaching influence that it restricts the freedom of those living or staying there. We also see it in the most everyday places. Take, for example, the Nordstan shopping centre in Gothenburg, where both women and men state that they are afraid of being subjected to harassment or violence. No one should make life uncertain for others that way. I was recently in Copenhagen to follow the Danish Government's work against crime. Since 2009, the Danish police have been able to issue what is called a zone ban. We Moderates want such an opportunity also to be given to the police in Sweden. The Chief Police Officer in Malmö describes the benefits of such a proposal as avoiding the people we consider to be at high risk and being violent in some places. If they're in these places, you can prosecute them. ..................................................... As a society, we must show that those who spread insecurity should not be allowed to take over our streets and squares. I think it's time. The government should not dismiss this possibility. This is an opportunity that our hard-working police officers need. The government should instead start working on a bill. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a good country, and many are doing well, but not for everyone. Nearly 1 million people live off benefits instead of working. More than one student in four failes at school. In some places, parallel societies emerge. Girls and women are prevented from walking in town, visiting baths and making their life choices. That's not how it's supposed to be in Sweden. We need laws that are clear and police and social services that can intervene. We need to push back the alienation. There is a need for clearer requirements and more simple jobs. It should always pay off to work. The most skilled teachers will work in schools with the toughest problems. But to reverse the trend, we must at least start with law and order being maintained, and this is done by the Swedish police.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-191	Mr President, I would like to There are two things I would like to say briefly at the outset. The first is that I am not impressed by the government's work on security issues in our country. I even think that we would have had a safer country if the government had taken a holiday in the first two years of this parliamentary term instead of trying to rule our country. The second is a welcome to you parties who, this year, tell you that you want to do more than the government wants to do in our area of responsibility. So far, we have actually seen about the same efforts from the Alliance as from the Red-Green Government. In the first year of this parliamentary term, the Alliance invested just as little in the Police Authority and the other judiciary as the Red-Green Government did. The impact of the first years' budgets is what we see in society today. All of you out there who think that we have enough police today, that the police have good enough wage developments and that the police have good enough working conditions, should therefore thank the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Center Party, as well as the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party and the Left Party. It is their joint funding that has shaped the reality we are experiencing today. Mr President, I would like to A well-functioning police service is one of the most important functions for us to form a secure society. I noticed that the Liberals were out the other week promising $5,000 more a month to the police. That's generous. When I looked at these figures, I almost recognized them. They were almost identical to the figures presented by the Swedish Democrats in the autumn budget last year. Now we do not know exactly how the Liberals want to formulate their proposal. If it is to be financed as a mark-up on existing efforts, you will have to make quite a fuss from your own autumn budget last year. If, instead, it is to be financed by earmarking within the existing framework, it is unfortunately to compare with the classic example of wetting oneself on a cold December morning. But let us say that you actually want to invest in the Police Authority, perhaps with stricter penalties and increased powers, as you hear between shipyards when you criticise the government. Then how did you intend to do it? As far as I know, you have ruled out cooperation with the Swedish Democrats, the only party that has really made wide-ranging efforts on the whole judiciary. Rather the Green Party than the Swedish Democrats, I have even heard. At most, it might be a dandelion in the pay envelope for police employees. This is what it looks like when you call the scam in the Liberal fox game. All that is usually only well calculated games where you can promise big but in the end do not have to take responsibility for what you have said. To make it a little more painful for the Liberals, I reach out my hand. Roger Haddad! Please give me an answer! Would you like to sit down with me? We seem to want about the same thing with police salaries. None of us can do this on our own in Parliament. But if we two sit down and form a common platform here in Parliament to give more money to the police, we may, together with other alliance parties, convict the government and make it a reality. Are you ready to do that? A brief answer to the question is enough. You have 12 minutes in the debate, so you can make it. Yes or no? Are you prepared to join the Swedish Democrats, so that what you promise can become a reality for the Swedish police? Otherwise, I did not intend to make much new proposals from the Swedish Democrats. Perhaps we still have the broadest package of measures against gang crime and insecurity in our country. We have presented this since the first year of this parliamentary term. We still lack a hearing on a lot of heavy issues. However, some things have been taken on board by the government. This applies, among other things, to increased penalties for gun crimes, something that Ygeman rejected as late as last winter when, instead, he stressed on-call courts in order to get to the detention in connection with the arrest of a serious weapon offence. We are, of course, pleased that you have accepted our demand for more stringent penalties, which in itself guarantees arrest in connection with a serious weapon offence. Thank you for listening to us and for implementing some of our policies! Although it is now only small parts of what is necessary to get to the big problems, we are grateful for the little. In connection with the recurrent attacks on blue light personnel, we have proposed a proper penalty for at least four years. On the same theme, I think it takes even more. A new proposal that we will be working on will be a detention sentence for those who interfere with the police's work and do not heed the police's orders. We believe that it is necessary to be able to take rapid action in the event of disturbances which could lead to riots. Today, people can interfere with police intervention, be sick with the police while doing their work, and thus trigger a mood that attracts more people to join. We've seen this too many times now. We believe that these people, who lack respect for the police, may think better if they are quickly lumped together and given them a shorter detention sentence. There's no need for people to argue and be rude to cops doing their job. There are more civilized ways of expressing their dissatisfaction, something that you might be able to inform these people about while serving a shorter prison sentence. Finally, I would like to stress perhaps the most important thing for the debate today. Every party that excludes cooperation with the Swedish Democrats will be forced to negotiate with parties that provide significantly worse conditions for developing the judiciary. I will return to the question to Haddad: do you rather cooperate with the Green Party than with the Swedish Democrats when you are going to implement your expensive promises? Just as it is important to make the right priority yourself in your own budget, as you may have learned now after these two years, it is also important to have a plan for how to implement what you promise. I believe that the Liberals owe the answer.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-201	Mr President, I would like to It is distressing that a debate on people's insecurity should instead become a forum for throwing pie at each other and discussing the same superficial proposals as in all other contexts where members of the Committee on Justice meet. There are people in this country who mourn for their loved ones who have suffered deadly violence. There are people who are afraid that it is their apartment that will be the next target when someone throws in a hand grenade. It's a fear that no one should have to feel. To speak in this House only of the police, of how many thousand crowns of wages they will receive, or of a zone ban so that those who create insecurity can be removed, is too superficial. It is too simple a solution to remedy the challenge we face together. Society must never accept that a child on a slide builds his dreams of the future on drug sales and violence rather than on education and work. The efforts cannot wait for the child to reach the age of 15 or for the 15-year-old to take a gun in his hand to kill another human being. If we are to deal seriously with the problem facing society, where children and young people are recruited into criminal networks where the threshold for the use of deadly violence has been lowered, much more is needed than just a discussion about one of society's authorities, the police. We need to invest seriously in schools in areas where it is at its toughest so that all children, regardless of their background, can pass comprehensive school and move on to upper secondary school education and eventually get a job. We need to invest in social services and provide social services with the tools they need to support families and to take measures with coercion when necessary and not too late. Mr President, I would like to We also need to invest in the police. The police must be better and more efficient and have more resources. But let us imagine nothing but that this is a challenge for society as a whole. If we do not build a society for all people who are safe in all areas but make it a battlefield to win simple political points, we leave the people who are most affected by these crimes in the lurch. Then we do not take their concerns and their vulnerability seriously. I would particularly like to address the Moderates here. The Moderates run some of Sweden's richest municipalities. These municipalities must also be involved in taking on their responsibilities. It is not okay that a rich municipality like Täby places vulnerable children in family homes that are not controlled in one of Sweden's most vulnerable areas, in a family where there is violence and where one of the sons is suspected to be an IS traveller. I think the Moderates should get to grips with that immediately. The whole of Sweden must take responsibility for turning the development of society's most vulnerable areas so that all children can grow up in security with faith in the future and dreams about getting an education and a job and contributing to the good rather than giving up and putting their hope in a life of crime.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-211	Mr President! There's no quick fix on gang violence. Long-term and urgent work will be required. Efforts will be needed here and now to pick out deadly killers, and efforts will be required to prevent others from stepping up in their criminal careers and taking their places. It requires resolute police efforts and skilled investigators, knowledgeable investigators and a chain of law without weak links. There is also a need for a penitentiary system that can at best steer the sentenced person on a better track in life, and it requires that those convicted of serious violent crimes also have a long time to absorb the treatment of the penitentiary. On the part of the Center Party and the Alliance, we have proposed a wide range of measures. So far during the term of office, some sixty have been announced, and the government has actually delivered in some of them in a satisfactory way. I want you to pay tribute to that. We continue to push for greater security with even more ideas. Already more than a year ago, we identified a need for increased resources. We drew up the money for the Centre Party's spring budget exercise and then delivered further when we saw that the need did not decrease but unfortunately the other way around. Mr President, I would like to It's not all night black. There are bright points in the long-term development of security, and there are definitely bright points in many places out in the police organization. I regularly meet police officers and others who have great knowledge of the situation. It is not often I am impressed by the amazing efforts that are being made around the country. In fact, the long-term trend is largely very positive. Crime is generally decreasing. However, there are worrying and serious exceptions, in particular the trend breakage, which indicates that gang violence is increasing. The exact reason we can only know after a few years when this has been thoroughly researched. However, the fact that the change takes place around the same time as the police are carrying out the biggest reorganisation since the 1960s is, quite reasonably, something to be seen as a connection. The pressure on the criminal gangs was unhappily eased during this period. I and the Center Party, like all other parties, agreed on the reorganisation, and basically it is good. We need to free staff from administrative tasks and get more work and security-building police hours out into the local community. We're hearing about a lot of flaws all over the country. But the basis of the reform is sound. It is implementation that would have to be more professional. There is a need for leadership in the police organization and in the clients of the police organisation, the government. Leadership is mainly about two things: clarifying responsibilities and allocating opportunities to fulfil these responsibilities. In all these parts, the situation must improve. The Mareld initiative has been ongoing in Stockholm for some time. It is the name of the long-term project that is set to combat gang crime. There is good hope that it will succeed, but as in so many other parts of the police, it is difficult to find staff. They're about 60 people today, and they're supposed to be 160. At the same time, I hear worryingly enough that there is a saving in the Stockholm Region of nearly 100 million. I hope there is something that can be changed with a quick addition, because the police need more money now. That's just the way it is, and no one can ignore that anymore. The gang violence is here and now, and the longer we wait to face it full-scale, the more expensive and more difficult it will be. It's bad enough as it is, and we need to stop now. Question Time was held in this House on 19 January. At the time, I asked the Minister for the Interior if, in view of the escalating situation of violence in Malmö, he did not see the need for an additional resource already this year. The Center Party has allocated 520 million to the police in our budget exercise this year, while the government is at 100 million. The fact is that the entire Alliance sees this need, and we have all bets on the police far above government levels. The answer to my question was a resounding no. It was not necessary, said the Home Secretary, given that training new police officers would take a long time. The problem is that you only see one half of the staff supply problem. The other half is everyone who has quit or is thinking about quitting. Resources are already needed to meet police demands on better conditions, to get competent staff to stay and to make the profession more attractive. It may not be someone who becomes a cop to get rich, but there may be someone else who chooses not to become a cop because you don't want to be poor. Resources are certainly needed if there is a threat of considerable savings at the moment in places where violence must be combated with full force. Mr President, I would like to In order to understand gang crime, one must also try to understand how society works. We talk a lot about socio-economic factors. Despite the fact that throughout modern political history we have tried to create systems, social measures and safety nets to ensure that no one has to resort to crime for their livelihoods, there is crime. Despite ambitions to varying degrees from different parties about equalizing life chances, there are in practice huge differences in society. But you make a serious mistake if you think this is all about money. The author and historian of ideas Johan Norberg once said that very wisely: The state can give you everything you need besides the feeling of having accomplished it yourself. I think there's a lot in it. The quest for equalisation has led to simplified models for distribution policies, high marginal taxes and rental regulation. And to be honest, where did that lead us? It hasn't evened out the differences in life chances for real anyway.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-226	Mr President, I would like to I've been in the police car when it passes under bridges where the rocks can hail. I've been standing next to cars burning where the fire department needs to be protected by the police from stone stones. I've talked to the mother who thinks a little bit extra before she lets her children go out when the darkness has fallen. I know what it's like to hesitate to walk home from the bus when the autumn darkness has fallen. I know what it's like to be hated and threatened online. That is not the society the Left Party wants. We want a society where everyone feels free, where everyone can express themselves in social media, where everyone can be in the square and where the police can do their job. We want a society where you as a woman don't see every man as a potential perpetrator and as a threat. Security is about freedom. This means that everyone must be able to live their lives, go to the store and buy food and take a walk with the dog and a run in the woods. That's why I get pissed off when people in Rinkeby don't dare go to the grocery store and when girls don't dare run in Rydskogen because there's been another assault rape. I would have liked the debate we have here today to have been about women's freedom, about how we can strengthen the school and about how the police can sharpen their crime prevention work. However, that debate will have to pause right now, because the situation is urgent. There are about a hundred people, mostly men, who commit crimes and shoot each other to death, and it has to be stopped here and now. It is no longer Hells Angels and Black Cobra, but nowadays it is loosely assembled networks belonging to different neighborhoods and having easy access to weapons that ravage our cities. They create anxiety and uncertainty. That is why the recruitment of criminal gangs must be stopped. Otherwise, shootings, stonings and insecurity will continue. We have to stop recruitment to the networks, because people have to want to stay in the Bishop's Garden. It is in the socio-economically weaker areas that both victims and perpetrators live. That's where the shots are fired and people die. That is why class divisions must be reduced in order to reduce crime and increase security. Only the Left Party takes this challenge seriously. It is we who want the class divisions to disappear. That is why we want to increase taxes for the rich, and that is why we are reducing taxes for the sick and for pensioners. The police themselves are not the only answer to how security is to be created, but it is a foundation of the rule of law that must work – everywhere. The police today have difficulty investigating all the shootings that are taking place, and the clearance rate is too low. This is serious. That is why we need to continue to have more police officers in the unsafe neighbourhoods. That's why we have to spot-mark and have reconnaissance on some people. Today it is a matter of few criminally active people, but it makes many people feel insecure. The Left sees two urgent measures that need to be taken here and now: we need to stop illegal weapons, and we need to strangle recruitment to criminal gangs. People die in Sweden. People are being shot on the street and shot with illegal weapons. People die in Sweden because the fist law has been replaced with weapons. To reduce deadly violence, illegal weapons must be stopped. The police, together with prosecutors and customs, must stop the smuggling of weapons, but all weapons circulating in the criminal networks must also be stopped. Criminals must be pointed out in order to find weapons, and we must introduce an amnesty now. We cannot allow the networks of criminals to grow. It must not be a reasonable option for a 14-year-old in Nordstan to become a errand boy and deliver weapons and drugs. There society must go in with early social efforts. Whatever the reason for starting criminal behaviour, we need to make great efforts, because it is unacceptable for children to be exploited, thus creating insecurity for all. It is a loss in both directions, and it is not worthy of a country like Sweden. I can't imagine a future where girls still walk with the key in their hand like a weapon because they're afraid of all the men passing by. I don't want a future where young guys are raised to handle a gun and shoot an enemy from another neighborhood. The Left Party wants a future where all people feel free. Then it is now time for change to take place.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-237	Mr President, I would like to This is a very urgent debate. The reason why we are once again standing here is the increasing insecurity, not least among women and young girls, but also among all young people in our country. To ignore and try to tone this down from the other parties, not least the Green Party, seems to me to be totally unacceptable. Our proposals to increase people's safety in everyday life are not superficial, as they have been called here. It is a way for our political parties to show that we are taking responsibility for development. Linda Snecker says that this debate should be about women's freedom. That's exactly what it does. It is about women's and men's freedom or lack of freedom or that their freedom, security and security are challenged every day, not least in the residential areas, neighbourhoods and municipalities where they cannot turn to the police, where they do not feel that law and order apply and where they no longer have faith in our judicial system. Then there may be actual insecurity or perceived insecurity, but both are absolutely equally serious and troubling. Mr President, I would like to The government representative says in his opening speech to this debate that it has been the government's absolute priority to work on these issues. However, at our request we had a debate last June on vulnerable areas. There were few suggestions. At the request of the Center Party, we had a similar debate last autumn, and now we are here again repeating something similar about the challenge and the problems, but unfortunately I note that there are very few new proposals from the Government's Minister for the Interior. It is the fact that we have vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas where parallel structures – gangs and youth gangs – are actually, if they have not already taken over, taking over. In their own report, the police say that the initiative started in 2016. I would like to address the Minister for the Interior and say that it was two years too late. In the winter of 2014, the police's first report on 53 vulnerable areas, 14 of which were particularly vulnerable. When we from the Liberals asked questions in this House last summer about the state of police presence and staffing, the basis of our judicial system, it turned out that we do not have a police presence out there in particularly vulnerable areas, based on what is needed to get to the drug dealers, arms smugglers and those who threaten and assault young girls and women. Now it is stated in the police report that this started in 2016 in November. Three months later, they come forward with a new request to the government and say that if they don't get more money – and it's the money that we in Parliament and the government can ultimately control – they're going to cut down with 1,000 police officers. However, my assessment is that there are between 1 500 and 2 000 police officers. So these are the conditions, the conditions for the police. The police chief also writes that it should also streamline and reduce further than redundancies of investigators and police officers. From the Liberal side, we have tried to take this into account. We have spent a total of 895 million in this year's budget to expand police training and to hire more police officers. We know that it takes two and a half years to find new police officers, and therefore we have repeatedly pointed out, both here in Parliament and in talks with the government, that approximately 400 to 500 police officers could be recruited back in the short term if a number of measures are taken such as continuing to streamline the Police Authority, reviewing the working environment and increasing police pay by SEK 4 000 extra per month. Mr President, I would like to The total number of police officers who left only last year was 950, of which approximately 180 left because of old-age pension. What about the others? They are about the pre-retired police officers, who are very good and who could assist and support a police force in crisis, and about the 350 who stopped because they simply gave up and no longer knew confidence in their workplace. What we hear in this House from the government about the wish to invest, we have seen nothing about on paper, but if there is an initiative before the summer, it is to maintain the level that we see today that it will be about. That level already describes the police as understaffing. I hear it in Malmö, I hear it in Kungsbacka, I hear it in Södertälje and I hear it in Köping. Do not say that we have a good staff, do not come and say that we have a good enough police presence in particularly vulnerable areas, and do not come and say that these are superficial, populist proposals, because the basis of our legal society is law and order.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-248	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to the alliance friends in the Moderates for initiating this urgent topical debate on the security of our country! In 2015, 13 per cent of Sweden's population aged 16 to 79 were exposed to some or all of the offences against individuals. These are crimes such as assault, threats, sexual offences, personal robbery, fraud and harassment. This is what the Swedish Crime Prevention Council's latest safety survey shows. In other words, people's sense of insecurity is not without reason. For too long, we have seen how robbery, burglary and assault cannot be prioritised by the police. Investigations are closed, sometimes without action. This creates uncertainty among citizens as to whether they can trust the justice system. There are major problems with external service, but the investigation work must not be obscured. These types of crime must also have consequences for the perpetrators. There must be a stop to the down-priority line by now. Mr President, I would like to In line with this, important values that are crucial for the interaction between people are allowed to apply on the foot. Trust between people is at risk. Trust between people and institutions is jeopardised. The emergency situation for the police is nothing more than a serious crisis of confidence. When people feel that trust and security are cracking, when the police do not come when you are affected by crime, when investigations are closed without action, when you perceive that society's response to crime is too weak and too evasive, people lose faith. People then lose faith in the public, in the authorities and in institutions. Some react with resignation, others with fear, or by taking matters into their own hands. For Sweden, it is absolutely crucial that we have a police and a judiciary that can deliver what our citizens expect. For Sweden, it is also absolutely crucial that there are politicians who are prepared to make the tough decisions that are needed. If we fail to do this, the consequences will be serious, not least for the weakest in society. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats have a wide range of proposals that would help to strengthen security, families, schools and social services, and that would prevent crime, restore the victim and punish the perpetrators. The police should be able to work even more effectively with their core tasks: preventing, preventing and prosecuting crimes. The continuous police presence must be ensured. Foot patrolling district police must be in place in order to build relationships and gain respect and trust among citizens. If the police only come to the call when there is trouble and trouble, the police can never build the trust that is necessary to provide security in our country. The Christian Democrats therefore propose 2 600 police workers, including 2 000 more police officers across the country, 100 more police officers in the national intervention concept and 500 civilian employees to relieve and streamline police duties. But that's not enough. Higher wages and better working conditions are needed, not least in order to increase the attractiveness of the profession and to reduce the number of police officers leaving the profession. Today we see how a record number of police officers over 40 years choose to change their profession. This, Mr President, is a trend that must be broken. It must also be ensured that the police have the right skills, methods and equipment. It is about the police having access to protected vehicles and the right protective equipment. It is about the police simply being able to have access to alternative weapons, such as the possibility of shooting rubber bullets, using an electric gun or having access to water cannons during demonstrations and major riots. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats want to ensure that those who are victims of crimes from first contact with the police, through legal proceedings and afterwards receive the necessary support. This is particularly important for the individual, but it is also an important signal to society around us: the victim must receive redress. The victim perspective should be more valid and strengthened in security policy than it is today. Mr President, I would like to On New Year's Eve, fireworks blew up in the sky. But it wasn't just there. Rockets were also directed at blue light personnel. Violence is increasing against police officers, civil protection personnel and health services. All forms of riots and violence against police officers and other emergency services are, of course, totally unacceptable. It is about people who are in emergency situations, where lives may be in danger, having to be able to rely on emergency personnel to arrive. But it is also a question of protecting people who have important social tasks and recognising respect for the rule of law. The state of law must never be left to its head when respect for it is being eroded. Therefore, reactions to the attacks must be clear. Mr President, I would like to Teenage girls must be able to feel safe, whether they are on their way home from soccer practice or online. The shopkeeper at the square in the Stockholm suburb, rural home with far to the nearest town, the guy who holds his boyfriend in his hand on his way home from the cinema and the social worker at Seved in Malmö – everyone should be able to feel safe. In the social debate, people easily turn into figures in the statistics. But behind the numbers, behind the headlines, there are people. They are individuals who are victims of online hate speech, hate crime, sexual abuse, burglary, robbery, gunfire and murder. We in this House must react to this with vigour. No, the Green Party, this is not about getting simple political points. It is about people in our country being able to feel safe.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-264	Mr President, I would like to This is an essentially good debate. The starting point is that more money is being invested in the police than ever. And the number of police employees is more than ever. I believe that in principle all parties have supported this approach. However, the development we have now is not enough. We need to do more. We need more cops. We need to invest more resources. We need a better working environment and working conditions for police officers. We need faster prosecution. We need sharper and smarter penalties. We need to turn around a fairly long period of social development and invest in jobs, education and development. I understand that, with a few exceptions, there is a broad consensus on this approach. There are those who want a little more, a little faster or a little less. But basically we agree that more police officers, more resources, faster prosecution and more stringent and smarter penalties are needed to reverse developments. I think that's a sign of strength. Tomas Tobé talks about the government's willingness to tighten the penalties for those who attack bluelight personnel. However, he thinks it is too late. It's a classic opposition position. I respect that zeal because it wants the Government's proposals to be implemented faster and earlier. But I can cautiously wonder: If this is such an urgent area for the Moderates, why did it not be proposed in the eight years that they were responsible for the area themselves? Then there would have been the opportunity to do it substantially earlier than it is now. Tomas Tobé also takes up the zone ban and tells us as his trip to Denmark. There is a proposal for a zone ban in Denmark. It was on a proposal in England but was abolished because it was judged to be bad. I therefore wonder if Tomas Tobé can explain what evaluations of the proposal he took note of in Denmark. It's been on the line for a while now. Therefore, there are perhaps evaluations from universities and authorities that he may have taken part in during his visit. Perhaps that is the reason why he wants it to be introduced here in Sweden. It would be good and interesting to hear about it. Tomas Tobé also talks about pushing back exclusion. Then we must remember that the Moderates' own report shows that exclusion increased during their time in power, that it was moderate politics that pushed the alienation. Then Tomas Tobé should rejoice now that we have changed that policy. Now more people are getting jobs instead of fewer. Now educational outcomes are rising in school rather than falling. Now the gaps are beginning to narrow rather than increase. The main proposal of the Swedish democrats in this House is to criminalise vomit. It comes from a party whose candidate for justice runs around the streets with iron pipes and is now called to court, accused of assault. And you Swedish democrats want to criminalize vomit! Is that really the best you could think of? Roger Haddad, along with the Center Party, gave a balanced picture. I just want to say that the first report on exclusion areas and measures against them came in 2014. It is, of course, ten twelve years too late. But it came then, not later. KD wants the police to have new equipment and new weapons. There could be a part of it. But it is the police who decide both their weapons and their equipment. They can choose their own equipment. And they are now starting a trial with e.g. a Taser, where 400 police officers participate.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-273	Mr President, I would like to Minister for the Interior Anders Ygeman lifts up the alienation. It is very important to talk about, because it is largely the root of many of the problems we have in Sweden. The Alliance government was successful in pushing back alienation. More than 300 000 went from contributions into work. But we did not succeed well enough in our government years – I dare say that this is true even in previous government years – in terms of the fact that, unfortunately, areas of exclusion have developed. It is basically a matter of our not succeeding well enough in getting foreign-born into work. Over the past year, I've visited 25 alienation areas. I have done so on the basis of a genuine desire to try to understand what society needs to do to lift up these areas. Yes, it will be about work, about investing in school and about more qualified social work. But I do not think that, in the situation we are in right now, I have met a single person who lives in an alienation area and who lives a law-abiding life that has not appealed to more policemen – present policemen who, moreover, know who they are. Therefore, I am a little surprised when I hear the representative of one of the government parties, Annika Hirvonen Falk from the Environmental Party, call this superficial proposals. I can make a clear promise to the Swedish people: none of the alliance parties will ever call the police, the police, for superficial proposals. I can also promise that the Alliance will continue to produce the necessary proposals to repress crime. The Minister of the Interior brought up my trip to Denmark. It is interesting that the Danish Government has taken a comprehensive initiative. It will, of course, be dealt with, even there in accordance with the usual parliamentary order. The proposal does not abolish the zone ban, but rather it will be developed and tightened up. It also seems that this will be done with broad parliamentary support. Therefore, I think that the government should not dismiss such proposals but rather look at them more closely. It is basically a question of the police being given better opportunities to repress crime. Sweden needs more police officers, at least 2,000 more. I wonder what Anders Ygeman is waiting for. Is that the spring budget? Is that the starting point for how you view this issue? It is clear that there must be serious funding for our political proposals. However, the Minister for Home Affairs should be able, in the situation we are now, with a security crisis in Sweden, to provide information about more police officers and that police officers should receive better salaries. Above all, he should be able to tell us that the government is prepared to turn every stone around in order to give the police proper opportunities to repress the crime in our country.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-279	Mr President, I would like to Now I am going into the slightly more improvised part of my speeches here today. I would like to comment a little on what we have heard during the debate. I reacted to what the Green Party was about, that we focus too much on the police, on penalties and on repressive measures. It is quite common in these debates that when you discuss with left-wing parties – if I may call them that – they go into school and social measures. I think these are such important questions. We acknowledge that we have a social responsibility for our entire country. However, it must not be forgotten that we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, in particular, are responsible for police matters, the issues of stratification and the issues we are discussing today. It is our primary responsibility, so it is no wonder that we are addressing these issues, especially not in the light of the fact that we have seen how society has developed. The police department has been in crisis for years. Shouldn't we talk about the political authority's conditions? I think the environmentalists are a little out of their way in this case. Ygeman says that we only have one proposal to make in this debate, that we should criminalise vomit. But then Ygeman only listened with one ear. We say that there should be clearer consequences for those people who interfere with police work and who whip up lawsuits that ultimately lead to riots and suburban riots that we have seen around the country. Early efforts are much better to curb these riots in their infancy than later putting in riot-equipped police when things have gone too far. I think it is a reasonable proposal, and I would like to ask Mr Ygeman whether he would like to address us on these issues. Anders Ygeman says that we have never had as many police officers as we have now and that there has never been so much money spent on the Police Authority as it has been done now. If I put a single crown in Ygeman's inner pocket, he's never had as much money as now. It is also a truth with modification. One must look at how many inhabitants there have been in Sweden during these years and how many police officers have been trained. The truth is that there are fewer police officers in this country in terms of the population development that we have had in recent years. As we have done throughout our term of office, we are, as usual, calling for an objective in which the number of police officers increases in relation to population development. Our goal is that there should be 250 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants. To achieve this rate during the budgetary period, 7 000 new police officers are required. That is an objective that remains firm for us. It is to be welcomed that the alliance parties continue to make proposals to train more police officers. We welcome this, but we would also like to see coordination among all the alliance parties so that we can make these proposals a reality. That's what's a little flawed today, isn't it? The Alliance doesn't want to convict the government. Individual parties have flared up over the last six months, but the Alliance does not want to make its promises a reality, and I find that worrying. There we can do more together. In conclusion, I would like to say that there is much to be discussed on security issues. We had a question yesterday for Anders Ygeman about terrorists. The government welcomes returning IS warriors who have burned people, who have committed terrible acts in Syria and Iraq. They are welcome back, and the government defends their right to retain their citizenship. This is one of our most serious challenges if we are to ensure the security of citizens of our country. Of course, we need to take many other measures that we will have to come back to in more lines and in more debates in the future.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-288	Mr President, I would like to I am glad that Adam Marttinen took on board my criticism of his superficial proposal. I am pleased that he took on board the criticism that it is superficial to believe that if we only criminalise those who are unpleasant to the police, we will solve the challenges of organised crime. It is as superficial as believing that if we only prohibit those who spread insecurity from staying in a certain place, they will stop committing crimes. This is not an ordinary debate in the Committee on Justice. This is a topical debate about security in Sweden. My problem is not that the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates, the Liberals, the Center Party or the Christian Democrats focus too much on the police. We need to invest more in the police. My problem is that the overall perspective is lacking. What suggestions do the Moderates have that break the recruitment of children and young people to criminal gangs? What suggestions do the Moderates have that make sure to lift the socially vulnerable areas so that the children who grow up there feel like part of society, want to study further and take a job? As history has shown, the solution to that problem is not to make the poor poorer or the sick poor. A holistic approach is needed to break the development of socially vulnerable areas. I have met many people who work in these areas. The police there want more colleagues. Social secretaries want more tools to be able to act when they see children at risk of becoming part of organised crime. I have met teachers who do not have time to get involved in all the challenges that children in their classes face. The solutions are about what the government has presented in recent years: 13 000 more teachers in schools, investments in social services and investments in the police. There are more police employees today than ever. We agree that the results of the police are not satisfactory. That is what we need to take action to get to grips with, and that is what is being done. However, reducing the discussion of security to proposals such as a zone ban or criminalisation of rudeness against the police does not solve the fundamental challenges faced by the people affected by crime.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-295	Mr President, I would like to A few weeks ago, it was widely debated whether the Crime Prevention Council would make new measurements of the link between immigration and crime. It is certainly interesting, but it is not likely that it has changed very much over time. According to the research, there is about two and a half times the risk of becoming a criminal if you are born abroad. But there are other connections that are far more interesting. If you receive supply support, the connection is six times as strong. But the most important prediction for someone to develop crime, Mr President, is school failure. They make everyone else connected with – I think – twelve times the risk. That is something we should take very seriously. It is important that statistics are not misinterpreted and misused, something that is sometimes done to find a political solution to a frightening social problem. You don't become a criminal just because you fail in school, you don't become a criminal because you get support and you don't become a criminal because you move from one country to another or because your parents do. If we are serious about wanting to increase security, then we should devote more than double the political effort to ensuring that people have jobs to go to as they talk about immigration. We should also put close to five times as much effort into improving the school so that everyone can get out of it with knowledge and self-esteem enough to move on in life. But it doesn't always look like that. Mr President, I would like to The Alliance has the best policies for jobs and entrepreneurship. We must continue to develop this so that every part of our elongated country can benefit from its unique conditions. We have to let people grow, and we have to let new ideas take root and grow into successful companies. It's almost an ironic feeling when one day I visit a fantastic event in Tensta konsthall, where a wide range of super-entrepreneurs, all with their roots in the town, talk about their incredibly impressive company building. A good friend, Zakaria, has launched the Orten.io project to create a platform for diversity on the tech stage, and he stands for the event. The second day I watch on the news how criminals rage in riot-like scenes just a few hundred yards away. And, Mr President, both images are reality, but we are talking almost only about one. It makes sense in many respects. There is an acute and unacceptable lack of security in what we call alienation areas, and we need to remedy that, which is also the subject of today's debate. But if we do not see the other side, we also do not see the long-term solution: an entrepreneurial and inclusive business community, which allows young people who grow up to see and understand that there is a world ahead of those who are also theirs, where they can take their place and try to realize their dreams. It is particularly sad when all hard-working small businesses are affected by this; they are trying to create a good life and job in their neighbourhood and are exposed to a lot of crime and nastyness. At the beginning of the year, the merchants in Kista had enough and closed their stores during one afternoon, as a protest against the mess. I launched yesterday an idea that I think we should continue to work on: Anyone who repeated misbehave and steals in a store should be able to be sentenced to a ban on access in that store, to protect, among other things, these important job creators.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-305	Mr President, I would like to When I was in high school, there were gangs of tough guys. I think almost every school has a gang like that. They were fighting and they were violent. They were pushed and threatened people in the school corridors. Now some have become criminals, but not all, and I often think about what makes some become criminals and others choose a life without crime. We have the answer in research, which shows that an equal society, without gaps and with opportunities for good education and to get jobs and housing, reduces crime. It is not obvious that the rowy boys from high school become criminals, but if society cannot offer education, housing and a fair labour market, the appeal to an alternative life will be much greater. That is why the recruitment base for criminal gangs must be reduced. No one should want to be a criminal. No one should want to throw stones or sexually molest anyone. That is why criminal behaviour must be stopped at an early age. That's why school is such an important tool to identify if something goes wrong. That is why the recreation centre and night football tournaments in Hageby and Skäggetorp are so important. That's part of the way we actually stop recruitment. If you were not a particularly criminal when you entered the prison or treatment centre or the juvenile care centre, you will be when you get out. I don't know how many times I've heard this from people who have left their criminal gang and lives. They tell me that it wasn't the long punishment that made them stop their criminal behavior and change their lifestyle—it was that there were other options. There was something else to occupy yourself with, such as work or study. There were other friends, who were not criminals, to hang out with. There was a social system that caught them when the choice to break the criminal course had been made. Sometimes in the debate it sounds as if Sweden has never taken hold of crime, but in Sweden we have always worked with early efforts and believe that people can actually change. In Sweden, we do not have prison sentences as a deterrent to not committing crimes, but to condemn the punishment that is appropriate in relation to the crime that has been committed. The Prison Service has the task of providing treatment and care with the prison sentence so that the client can get out into society in the best possible way. This is worth remembering in the debate today. I fully agree with everyone that society should be safe and that crime is a threat. But sometimes when I am standing in this Chamber, I wonder whether we have the same purpose in the debate. Some parties stand here and paint a picture of Sweden once being calm and safe and that there were no assaults or rapes. Other parties use women's vulnerability as a bat to reduce immigration. The Left Party does not believe that we will increase security through a debate in Parliament's Chamber. We know that we are making a difference with classic left-wing politics, by reducing income inequality, increasing housing construction and having a decent labour market.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-313	Mr President, I would like to Liberals are still calling for concrete measures from the government in terms of budget and resources for the police. It is not enough to say that we are coming back and we are considering. We've been hearing this for a year and a half! Not a single comment has been made about all the police officers who quit just last year, 950 of them. Let's say at least half quit because of an early or old-age pension, but what about the others? 400 - 500 police officers finished last year. The Government does not even endeavour to comment on this in a single letter! I think that is serious, because this government, and in particular its support parties, the Left Party and the Green Party coalition partner, obviously do not understand the seriousness of the Police Authority. Increase police salaries by SEK 4,000 a month; we will spend a total of SEK 1.3 billion in new money in our future budget. But we are already spending money this year to begin the appointment of 2,500 more police officers and 1,100 civilian investigators. Here we have stood and lazily over particularly vulnerable areas – those that are absolutely to be prioritised, according to the police. And so we forget the other 30 - 35 areas that are vulnerable; they also have problems. Shops close and libraries are allowed to adjust their opening hours due to mess and trouble, gang crime, drug sales and insecurity among entrepreneurs and people living in these areas. Category three, which we certainly do not seem to be talking about today, are the municipalities and areas that do not exist in the police survey of vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas. That is why more police officers and more investigators are important: in order to cope with the presence also outside the big cities and the so-called vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas. But I realise that with the government's proposal, policy and budget, it is a resigned Minister of the Interior who comes to this House today, without any new and definitely without any concrete proposals. I have heard this from Anders Ygeman last autumn and last spring, when we had exactly the same debate. The Crime Prevention Council is not even on the map. The Police Commissioner said in his report to the Government a few months ago that from 2018 we will start the initiative on the Crime Prevention Council. I hear in every police region that you don't have time for the Crime Prevention Council. The situation for the police in Kungsbacka, Varberg, Köping or Södertälje, for that matter, is such that they do not have time for any crime prevention job. The project Mareld in Södertälje, which is mentioned so nicely, does not have full staffing. It has received a supplement of 11 people from outside, half of whom are not added. 18 police officers in the project Mareld in Södertälje are taken from the existing organisation; there are no new additions. The summary of the particularly vulnerable areas is the relocation of police officers. But we Liberals are calling for new police officers, not for the relocation of the police, Mr Minister for the Interior! The report came in October 2014. The police say that the effort in these areas began in autumn 2016. It's two years too late. It is the criminals who benefit from the inaction shown by the government.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-323	Mr President, I would like to The part of Sweden I come from is severely affected by both gang crime and gunfire. In particular, I would like to mention two recent examples. On January 12th, 16-year-old Ahmed Obaid was shot dead while waiting for the bus in Rosengård. Of course, despair and anger are great among family and friends, but also among the rest of us. In a manifestation, the Malmöers gathered together and made clear demands for political action. On February 7, a man was shot on Roskildevägen. The snow had fallen over Malmö that night, and he shoveled the footpaths. When I met Malmö Police Commissioner Stefan Sinté us the next day, he told me that a 15-year-old was arrested, suspected of attempted murder. 15-year-old, Mr. Speaker! What's a 15-year-old boy doing out there in the middle of the night, and why does a 15-year-old boy have access to weapons? How many steps have gone wrong before we see such a situation? But the police in Malmö were not surprised, but deeply concerned that so many serious crimes in Malmö are committed by young people – young people running around with weapons and who after committing a crime are back on the street before the police have finished their report. We politicians must put our feet down now and start making decisions that break the spiral of violence and destroy parallel societies. It is time for this House to ask itself why Malmö has more shootings, blasts and deadly violence than the much larger neighbouring city of Copenhagen. Unfortunately, it is far from only in Malmö that we have seen parallel communities emerge. We have talked about this here today. But the problem can be very different. This is not often about people who have already fallen seriously wrong at a young age and are heavily burdened with crime. Christian Frödén, who works in border police and is part of a special group aimed at unaccompanied children and young people in what is called Stockholm's risk environments, is interviewed in Sunday's Expressen. He works at Plattan and tells how children and young people are subjected to crime and abuse, but also how they expose others to the same. He testifies that the resources are scarce but the needs are great. He testifies to the insecurity of these young ones. Some of us go by there every day. For us, it's a subway station and a square. For the young there, it's both a youth farm and a crime scene. It's a place for both perpetrators and victims. We have to deal with people living in parallel worlds. Prevention, safe families, functioning schools, district police and a strong civil society are important ways to go, but that is not enough. Too many people are stuck in these parallel societies and in crime. Therefore, our response to what is happening must be made even clearer. It is good that the government is acting on A Alliance's proposal for stricter penalties. But more is needed. We need to tighten the penalties for gun crimes, violent and sexual crimes and violence and threats against officials. We need to review the penalty discount for young people. The legislation has to keep up with this. The criminal course begins today long before the age of government. This also applies to the situation of silence or even murder of witnesses. It is unreasonable for criminals to go free because people in our country do not dare to testify. Anonymous testimony must be allowed. In countries where witnesses are allowed to remain anonymous – Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands – the legal society has hardly collapsed. The government's argument that it could not work here is thin.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-334	Mr President, I would like to There are many things I would like to comment on. I'm trying to make it quick. Social development has started to move in the right direction. We see several areas where unemployment is falling, school results are rising and economic balance is high, unlike the period when Tomas Tobés's party had government responsibility. Then the trend went the other way. The Moderates' own report has shown that the alienation areas increased during the moderate period. It is good that we can now reverse this trend. In fact, I think Tomas Tobé is also happy about that. We're going to turn all the stones around, says Tomas Tobé. Of course, but we also need to see if there is gold under the stone or if it crawls out worms when we turn it over. That's why I asked for an evaluation. The United Kingdom evaluated and abolished the proposal put forward by Tomas Tobé. In Sweden we have far-reaching opportunities in the Police Act. What is the Danish evaluation from universities and authorities? Is this really a good proposal, and does it add something to the Swedish debate? The Christian Democrats raised the proposal for anonymous witnesses. The examples you mention are extreme exceptional cases. Nor will there be full anonymity. The defense lawyers need to know the identity of the witnesses. It may not provide 100% protection for those who wish to testify. I am reluctant to introduce that model. But we will look at all the different proposals and evaluate them. The Center Party has proposals to deal with thefts in stores. It is also interesting to look at and see the evaluation of: Is this proposal good, or are there other proposals that are better and that can have the same effect? We'll follow the evaluation. We will learn from other countries and take on board the suggestions that reflect well and move on with them. However, I do not believe – unfortunately, Adam Marttinen! – on the Swedish Democrats' proposal to criminalise vomit. I do not think that will be a working way forward. I am pleased that we have a consensus on adding additional resources and more police. I think the police force is grateful for that.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-341	Mr President, I would like to What the police in their evaluations of the zone proposal has come to – they have looked at what this would mean, also in consultation with the Danish Government – is that it would be effective. Rather, it is now putting forward a proposal to make this part of the penalty. The day before we Moderates demanded this topical debate, a police chief's car had been set on fire in Täby, and an ambulance had been robbed. I want to return to the quote from the chief of police in Rinkeby: The criminals laugh at society. Mr President, I would like to That's enough. We must now all make sure that we help to repress crime. This is not a crime that is about to disappear from the country's alienation areas. I honestly don't think even the Home Secretary himself believes that. I hope that, in the general economic climate, we may be able to raise employment slightly, but we have real security problems which we must now address. That is why we Moderates, together with the Alliance, will continue to take the initiative in the Riksdag, continue to make proposals and continue to ensure that the government is put in front of us. Above all, we will seek the support of the Swedish people for a policy that provides real security to trust.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-345	Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I can say that I am grateful to the Alliance for new proposals. We have performed many of them before. It is about removing the penalty rebates and reviewing the conditional release. Christian Democrats propose anonymous witnesses, great! More policemen we've been advocating all these years. Strengthened punishment for violent crimes is a classic. There are proposals for new DIKO laws, inspired by the RICO laws in the United States. It proposes a system of Crown Witnesses and extended powers with secret coercive measures and so on. These are very important measures, as we have been proposing all these years. I'm glad you're copying some of the suggestions. However, we must also be able to coordinate our reservations in the Committee on Justice so that this becomes a reality. We cannot have the order in which certain parties in the Alliance oppose cooperation in order to implement the proposals that our society needs. We also need to go much further. That is why I think it is perfectly appropriate that there should be clearer consequences in these vulnerable areas, where there are people who seriously disturb police order, interfere with police intervention and do not heed police calls. It is a matter of earlier action against those people, before they have time to whip up lawsuits that lead to serious riots. It's not about criminalizing vomit. It is about exactly what I said: that you do not heed the police's instructions and interfere with the order of the police's work. It must have clearer consequences, so that the police are easier to carry out their work in the affected areas. Then I think it is a bit comical that all the parties in here talk as if they were opposition parties. Perhaps mainly the Green Party is talking about socially vulnerable areas and that we need more teachers, more social educators, more of everything and more of everything. But you're in government. You're in charge in our country. It is you who, with your draft budget, shape the society that we have outside the House of Iksdag. The Alliance parties also come up with a lot of criticism. You've been in government for eight years. It is your society that we are jointly criticising in this House today.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-350	Mr President, I would like to If we are to counter the insecurity that people face, especially in the vulnerable areas, the whole of society needs to hook arms with all the good forces – the police, the school, social services and ordinary honest people who want to do their part to contribute to a good society. It is about entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who want to contribute to a society where people go to work and pay taxes and work to ensure that all children have faith in the future and believe that they have a place in our society. Mr President, I would like to I look forward to the day when the Moderates are talking not only about running the government ahead of them in terms of police and punishment, but also in terms of countering exclusion and ensuring that we invest in all children and protect gender equality, not only when it comes to women's insecurity, but also in other areas. Mr President, I would like to A lot needs to be done. As Adam Marttinen states, we are not satisfied until we have made sure that all people are safe and that all children are able to attend school and have a job to attend as they grow up. The government has taken many steps to get there. There are 13 000 more educators in Swedish school. We have more police employees than ever before. And we're investing in welfare. These are things that build society strong.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-353	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Moderates for the initiative for this debate. This is an extremely important subject, which we must debate long and well. It is good that all ideas come forward. I would also like to thank the Minister for Home Affairs for listening to the ideas and expressing that you can continue to work with them. I cannot really stop thinking about what Annika Hirvonen Falk said in her first speech: that these ideas would be superficial and that it would be superficial to talk about these things. I think it is better that we talk about the substance than that we review the political opponents. Bring your own ideas if the ideas are bad! Then we'll have to agree on who's good. Then there is cooperation and how to agree in order to create a parliamentary majority for their ideas. Surely democracy is based on agreement, but agreement requires trust in each other. We must trust those with whom we will cooperate. I also believe that there is a need for a fundamental consensus on fundamental values and how we view people. The alliance is a very good cooperation instrument for us. In the Committee on Justice, it works very well. I am extremely grateful for the work we are doing together. It can also be seen in the results – there are some sixty announcements during this period, and the government delivers in terms of a lot of them. Some of which I think are very important and which the government still has to deal with are systematic thefts. The penalty rebates will be reviewed. It's good that the government takes the blue light violence seriously. That's what we're gonna come up with. It's about better penitentiary and better punishment. I think the next big puck we're gonna grab is better prevention. We've talked a lot about social prevention, where we focus on the perpetrator. But we need to start looking at how we build our societies. It's about thinking about security right from the start when we plan our municipalities. I look forward to debating it the next time we meet in this context.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-358	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes in the debate it sounds like insecurity is something new, but that is not the case. Me and my girlfriends always went home at night with the key in their hand. We were ready to use it as a weapon in case a rapist shows up. My friends who were not as blond as I was worried about being shot by the Laser Man or beaten by neo-Nazis. As a student, I lived next to the street in Linköping where the unfinished double murder took place an early morning. Insecureness is nothing new that has suddenly arisen from nothing – insecurity has always existed. But security is also a feeling and an experience. There are many different factors that record – if you are a woman or a man, are Swedish or immigrant, can take the car or bus, are old or young. Security doesn't mean the same to everyone. If you ask ten people what security is, you get ten different answers. The Left sees two urgent measures that must take place now. We must stop the illegal weapons and we must strangle the recruitment of criminal gangs. We have to do that. The Left Party wants a society in which all people feel free. There you can express yourself in social media without being online hated. You can dress in niqab or have a cross around your neck. You can love who you want, study what you are interested in and feel that life is full of choices no matter who you are. It is the Left Party's vision of a safe society.
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-361	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the debate. The Liberals do not, however, have any information about this by renouncing the police's duties. This was the first decision made by the Minister for the Interior in 2015: that that investigation should be closed. We need to bet on keeping the cops. I would like to express my thanks to all the police officers who are working under these conditions today. You need more employees, and you need better wage development. We would also like to say something to the government: review the regional police organisation and the regional offices, which have swelled at the expense of the local police area! Get the county chiefs out of here! Why are they still here-- there are 20 to 21 of them? Push resources closer to the people, closer to the citizens! During Ygeman's time, the number of police officers has fallen, contrary to what has been said. There have been fewer police officers in external service. How can the government parties stand here and claim that we have never had so many policemen? That's not true. You include the aspirants, who are under training. You say nothing about all the withdrawals that have taken place last year. I think it's troubling. How can everyday crimes be prioritised when we cannot even maintain police presence in the vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas? That is what creates insecurity and insecurity. That is what makes many people in our good society and beautiful country feel insecure. And that is what we must respond to. Finally, the Liberals also wish the municipalities in the Municipal Act to be required to work to prevent crime. They don't have that mission today. I also have one final appeal to all parents out there: take greater responsibility for your young people, for many of those who commit very serious crimes are indeed children and young people!
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-366	Mr President, I would like to We cannot have a debate on security without talking about people's concerns about terrorist attacks in our country. The question of radicalisation and return of jihadists must not be ignored or reduced. On the one hand, there is a need for strong prevention without blind spots and, on the other hand, strong measures are needed to secure our citizens from those who have been radicalised. The only thing that suggests in the short term that we can ward off it is that Säpo, the police and other authorities are able to discover plans and people before terrorist crimes are committed. Therefore, the authorities defending our society must be given the resources and powers necessary to carry out their task. Our open society is being fought by the terrorists. They are prepared to do anything to spread fear and hatred. The struggle can only be won if we succeed in overcoming our fears, suppressing hatred and gathering ourselves together into powerful action. Anders Ygeman! This is very much a matter of security. Don't let the Ministry of Culture contribute to the insecurity of our country! Take responsibility! Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, it is no news for us in this House that people are concerned about crime. Nor is it news that the government's biggest efforts seem to be delayed. But this is where the situation is untenable. When Christian Frödén, to whom I referred earlier, is asked to give advice to politicians, he says to the Expressen: ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to The Frödén is absolutely right!
i-81173b0bfd1139d4-372	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to all the parliamentary parties for this discussion and especially to the Moderates, who took the initiative! I will tell Tomas Tobé that if he has the evaluation from the police he is talking about, he is welcome to send it to me, because when we ask the Danish Ministry of Justice, they do not know about such an evaluation. It is good that we agree on fundamentals. We shall have sharper and smarter legislation. We're going to invest more resources and get more cops. We're going to have faster prosecution and set up on-call courts. We will streamline police operations so that as many tasks as possible can be taken away from the police and the police can concentrate on the core task. I think that this debate has shown that there is broad agreement. Many sensible proposals have been put forward in the debate, proposals that need to be looked at. There are also some less sensible proposals, but we can leave them at that. My conclusion from this debate is that I still want to extend one hand to all democratic parties. I believe that there is more that unites us than divides us, and I believe that we could jointly take decisive action to break the criminal gangs and organised crime.
